ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Monday of the 8th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. The drafts and inquiries will first be handed over by Hanno Pevkur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia has had a major success story, namely e-governance, through time, especially in recent times. With this success story, we have been able to give the world a pretty big message. We are credible, we are successful and we have built a secure e-state. We can communicate with our bank and run our finances by electronic channels, it's safe. If we have to communicate with a country, such as the Tax and Customs Board, we can do this electronically and it is safe. If we choose, we can do it electronically, and it's safe. In 2005 when Estonian people were able to vote in local elections by electronic means, 1.85% of all voters took advantage of this opportunity. However, this figure has steadily increased and we have now reached 31.3% of the total number of e-choices in the last European Parliament elections. We would like the e-vote to last longer and more e-choices, so we propose extending the deadline for e-elections from seven to ten days. I believe that the Government of the Republic also supports this proposal as a highly innovative solution contributing to Estonia's success story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U3	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, on behalf of the members of the Reform Party Group, a question of great importance to Estonia, which is increasing productivity in the economy. We have not seen much progress in this area. On the contrary, wage growth has been above productivity growth for a long time, but this is obviously unsustainable. In its mission report of Article 4, the IMF has now made a number of recommendations that the Estonian state could make in order to support its productivity growth. My questions to the Prime Minister are based on these same recommendations. Is that what the Prime Minister intends to do? We are specifically asking what steps the government intends to take in order to increase productivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U5	I have adopted one draft and one inquiry and the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which we will take to the proceedings. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu. Adoption of the agenda. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a procedural question. Last week on Monday, 6 March, when there was the implementation of the sitting, you said you had a message for us. You wished to place a point on the agenda for the week on Thursday, which was based on the address of the Chancellor of Justice to the Riigikogu to bring several tax laws into line with the Constitution. The proposal concerns a 20-day deadline due to the Constitution. That deadline expired last week on Thursday. I ask why it is that we do not respect the legal deadline. If we break the law and do not even comply with it, what message does the Riigikogu send to the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U7	Thank you, very good question! Honourable ambassadors! I would ask you in the committees to follow this comment made by Aivar Sõerd, a member of the Riigikogu. To be honest, this 20-day deadline has been met in a few cases, mostly the debate in committees has taken longer. In this case, above all, it is important for the debate to be constructive. As both committees felt that now was the right time, the debate will take place this week. But the real life of discussing the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice is that sometimes it has taken even several times longer before the committees have taken a decision. So the 20-day criterion has only been met in a few cases. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U8	Mr President, first of all, thank you for your explanation. However, as far as I am concerned, the board will decide, not the committees, when the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice will be put to the debate in the Riigikogu's plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U9	Yes, the board will decide, but if it did, if the committees were not yet ready to make their decisions, it would be a very stupid board. The Bureau's interest is that the debate here would be constructive, which is why the Bureau cannot act on its own. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U10	Thank you. As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I do not recall that we have discussed in very detail that the deadline should be postponed. This is a debate we had last week, and nothing has happened in the meantime. In this sense, it really does not make sense why we do not respect the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U11	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U12	Thank you. I would like to say to Mr Aasa's reply that, as far as I am aware, both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and also made their decision by a majority vote. My question, however, is: why did it not come to the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U13	Please repeat what the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U14	I said that both committees voted on the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice and that it was decided not to support it by a majority vote. This means that decisions were taken in both committees at the beginning of last week. Then why didn't we come to the big hall last week?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U15	Because the President asked both committees when they wanted this debate in the large Chamber. One committee offered Tuesday and Thursday this week, and the other one offered Thursday this week. The debate will therefore take place on Thursday this week. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U16	Good Chairman! As a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I do remember a rather thorough debate, in which I myself raised a number of questions, and I can say that this is indeed the decision that our committee has taken. However, since this depends on two committees, the management board's behaviour is normal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U17	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U18	Thank you. I will continue here with the question of Mr Kalle Laanet. In fact, in two committees where this issue was to be discussed, this issue has already been discussed. And by a majority of the members of the coalition, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal has been voted down. How do you, as the Member who has probably worked the longest in this Chamber, see this Thursday debate even forming? If it's been voted down twice, what's going on here on Thursday anyway? In fact, the situation is not changing, and Parliament does not care about the Chancellor of Justice, at least the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U19	This is now no longer an issue on the agenda. The Plenary Assembly will take its decision on Thursday. The positions of the committees will be heard, the Chancellor of Justice will also be heard and the vote will be taken. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U20	Thank you. Honourable Chairman! I will continue with Kalle Laanet's question. When both committees discussed this, did you ask the Commission or the committee presidents when this could be on the plenary agenda? Couldn't the committee chairmen come last Thursday because they had something else and more important to do, or was there some other reason they told you? Because really, I agree that the Riigikogu will not be able to change the law in 20 days, but it would still have been possible to discuss the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice last Thursday. Then we could have looked at the Chancellor of Justice with a clear eye and said that, yes, this debate is within the 20-day deadline, as the Constitution provides. The problem now is that we did not even discuss it in the big hall for 20 days. A specific question for you: did it not come to the large hall at the request of the committee presidents, or did the Bureau just decide to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U21	The Bureau asked the committees what time they considered the most reasonable for discussion. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U22	Thank you. I would also like to clarify that. In the Commission's minutes, at least in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there is no formal decision as to when the matter should be discussed. There are two points in the minutes of our committee: one is that the majority of the Commission does not support the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, and the other is that the rapporteur was appointed. The committee chairman has not asked us at all for a position, so I do not think it is right to say that the Commission has decided to discuss it this week. This issue should also have been discussed in the Commission. The chairman of the committee could have asked for this in electronic form. When we talked to the Chancellor of Justice about why we had a hard time with this question, it was said that legal clarity should arrive before the big summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U23	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U24	Thank you. I will also return to the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. When the Chancellor of Justice said that his proposal should be discussed in plenary as soon as possible, and he also had to consult you on the assumption that this would take place last week, almost all the members of the Commission agreed that the Chancellor of Justice's proposal should be discussed in plenary as soon as possible and felt that this should take place last week. So this postponement, at least for us, is still a little bit incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U25	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. This debate now reveals very serious facts. For example, the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not discussed with the members of the committee when this topic could come to the Chamber. Why don't you refresh my memory and tell me who the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U27	Dear Chairman, As a member of the Committee on Finance, I can only confirm that the Commission did not discuss last week when to bring this issue to the big hall. I remember talking about it before, and at least I asked why we're delaying it. Then the chairman of the committee said that he would wait for the Bureau to send us some sort of letter or direct it to us for processing. But the board doesn't really have to direct us. My question, Mr President, is: what message do we send to the public? Can you at least admit that this is a very bad message and a very bad precedent if the Riigikogu itself, without objective reasons, violates the existing law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U28	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U29	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U30	Honourable Chairman! As a member of the Riigikogu, I get the feeling that I do not understand certain procedural processes. The Bureau claims that the Commission has sent you a proposal that it should be discussed this Thursday, but then it turns out that it has not really been discussed in the committees. Perhaps I ask this question: who and how does such information come about that it should be on this Thursday? Why was the 20-day rule ignored?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U31	Okay. Let me now ask the Chancellery of the Riigikogu to summarise all the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice within a certain period of time and then bring to you the statistics, how often the 20 days have come in and how many and in which cases it has taken longer. Then everyone would have a picture and we'd know what we're talking about. The problem itself comes from a very simple thing. The Bureau shall be guided by discussions in committees. There can be no other way, because if the committees are not ready for discussion, it will be very difficult for the Bureau to organise it. That is why the Bureau awaits the Commission's decision. If you think the Bureau could run over the committees, let it be your opinion. In my opinion, it makes sense for the Bureau to take account of the proposals made by the committees when drawing up the agenda. Dear Laane, do you have a suggestion to delete this point from this week's agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U32	Thank you. I'd still like to get an answer to what Aivar Sõerd asked for. What impression do we make as a Riigikogu outside the public if, without any valid reasons, we simply fail to comply with the law? Please answer this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U33	I would like to ask the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to discuss this. Statistics on the observance of the Chancellor of Justice's proposals will be available to all political groups and then we will discuss why one or another date is not respected. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U34	Honourable Chairman! Since you consistently argued that the proposal on the deadline came from the committees, but I say that the committees have not discussed this deadline, I will ask you about the future process and the procedure. Does the Chairman of the Commission have the right to make such statements on behalf of the Commission which have not been discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U35	Ask your committee chairman how he passed it on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U36	No, I'm asking you. The board should know whose opinion is legitimate. Does the chairman of the committee have the right to make statements which have not been discussed in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U37	The chairman of the committee shall have the right to make statements which have been discussed by the committee. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U38	Honourable Chairman! From your previous reply, however, I did not know whether the Bureau received a reply in writing from the committees, in other words, in minutes, that it had been discussed in the committees, or whether it received the opinion of the committee chairman by telephone as an alleged committee opinion, in its decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U39	This is so that we asked for information from the committees, and since they had already appointed waiters, together with the names of the waitresses, we also found out the date when they would be prepared to discuss the matter. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U40	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that the Bureau was unanimous when drawing up the agenda and that all three Bureau members were also present at the Bureau meeting. But on the current situation, I have this question: do we have the opportunity to put this item on the agenda last week? If we do not have this opportunity, I propose that we put this item on the agenda this week and move on to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U41	Thank you for this proposal. We can't put the agenda on last week. Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U42	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I have this question for you: do we really have precedence over statistics and past errors, including the Constitution? In my opinion, the opposite should be the case, rather than the Constitution giving one time limit, then the aim is to achieve a situation in which everyone adheres to it. But now we are really setting such a precedent that what is written in the Constitution really does not cost anything. Whether someone has time or not is more likely to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U43	The Constitution takes precedence both when one political group is in opposition and when it is in the coalition. And it would be very nice if all the political groups, regardless of which side they are on, were to follow the Constitution. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the 8th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There are 76 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with three abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U44	The first item on our agenda today is an inquiry by Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp, Monika Haukanõm, Külliki Kübarsepp and Jüri Adams. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U45	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Auditor General! It seems that moving to Ida-Viru County at the National Defence Academy is not only an idea, it is an obsession. Because it's all been once. When this topic came up acutely during the current new government, it was recalled that it was already a topic in 2013 when the government discussed it and the Minister of the Interior was tasked with forming a position on the feasibility of moving to the Academy of Home Affairs. At the same time, on 30 May 2013, the National Audit Office also submitted its opinion to the then Prime Minister, Andrus Ansip. The content of the opinion at the time was that if public expenditure remained the same after moving, but the quality of education improved, it would be useful. It was also considered that this could be useful if costs were to decrease but there was no change in the quality of education. However, when analysing the situation at the time, there was a risk to the quality of education, especially because teachers are not ready to move to Ida-Virumaa, not even if it involves free housing and wage increases of up to 30%. On the other hand, at the time, the National Audit Office found that more appropriate measures are certainly needed to revive Ida-Virumaa, and the specialties of the National Defence Academy do not directly relate to the economic life of Ida-Virumaa. There was, of course, no mention of the fact that public expenditure could remain the same or be reduced. Even then, it was evident that the state's costs of moving increased, even as a result of the construction of a new building complex. Exactly the same conclusions have been reached by a working group of five officials. As we can read about the Postman today, it is more of an increase in expenditure. It is estimated that moving from Tallinn to Narva will cost about 10 million euros more than has been estimated. The cost of real estate complexes varies from 46,9 million to 52.5. Since, in the meantime, it seemed that the government would soon make a decision, we would certainly like to know the updated position of the National Audit Office as well. Has something unprecedented happened in four years, so that moving to the National Defence Academy becomes more profitable, or has some extraordinary sources of money opened up to support it? It's hard for us to believe. We want to know what kind of change the quality of education is going through and what happens to the cost of a student's place. Is this all in line with the objectives of the higher education strategy and the national budget strategy? How does this relate to existing programmes for funding higher education? Where does the money come from? And finally, is this the most appropriate way to make regional policy in Ida-Virumaa? That is certainly a noble goal in itself, but there are probably many other things to consider when raising these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U46	Auditor General Alar Karis will answer the question. Please, Reverend Auditor General!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U47	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As you have heard, the members of the Free Party Group of the Riigikogu have submitted to me on 20 February this year an inquiry into various aspects of the plan to move to Ida-Virumaa, the Academy of Internal Defence. Before going to specific questions, I will give a few starting points for a better understanding of my answer. I refer to the information I have as the Auditor General, but I also rely on my previous experience as rectors of two universities and as a member of international decision-making bodies in the field of education. If the issue is analysed in a very simplified way, the decision to move to a school or another institution should depend on whether it improves the outcome of the work. In this case, it should be considered whether, as a result of moving to Narva, a higher quality and, if necessary, more international education would be given at the National Defence Academy. Would students with more and more suitable personal qualities like to study there because of their placement in Narva and would the top teachers like to teach there? Will better educated workers achieve a higher level of internal security in the country? Are the costs of maintaining the school affordable to the state now, in the future, etc.? For years now, I have seen the great danger of forming a government and signing a coalition agreement create unthought-out thoughts in the plans. The move of the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa seems to be one of these. For some individuals or groups, however, this seems to be an obsession that, by definition, has grasped their spirit in such a way that it hardly responds to changing arguments. This is why the issue arises with firm continuity. However, I very much hope that the government will understand more widely when making decisions on the Academy of Home Affairs that there are still a number of intelligent arguments that should not be rejected alongside the so-called political will. The National Audit Office has sent several letters to the government on the subject of the National Defence Academy. The letters have drawn attention to the risks that affect the quality of education and the harm that the country may suffer. As early as 2013, I took the view that taking the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Virumaa was not practical. I am of the same opinion today. Taking into account the decisions taken so far and the relevant impact analyses and assessments currently known, it is not appropriate to take the Academy of Internal Defence to Ida-Viru County. On the contrary, it is pointless and super expensive, irresponsibly endangers the quality of internal security training and contains perceived security risks. Certain risks are specific and their public handling is not my job. This action has made its own assessment. As Auditor General, I have studied this document and I join these conclusions. But now the questions and the answers. The first question: 'How does the planned move affect the quality of education provided at the National Defence Academy, the cost of the student's place and the achievement of the objectives of the higher education strategy? ' The risk that the Academy of Internal Defence will not be able to continue as an innovative and internationally recognised study, research and development centre after the forced introduction of Narva is, in my opinion, very large. There is a risk of losing qualified faculty and thus greatly impairing the ability of institutions in the field of safeguarding Estonian internal security to get well-trained people to work in the future. The most recent survey conducted a few months ago at the National Defence Academy showed that the absolute majority of ordinary lecturers and other staff disagree or rather disagree with the move to Narva at the National Defence Academy. At the Academy, a significant part of the teaching is also paid by teachers who pay an hourly fee. They are practitioners of their own specialty who go from the main job to teaching with relatively little effort. According to the Academy, the majority of them, or 80%, are not willing or willing to continue. Only a small part of the staff would agree to work in Ida-Virumaa if various benefits, such as higher wages, reimbursement of travel expenses, etc., were applied. In addition to setting-up costs, there should be a fixed allowance to cover the benefits of existing staff and to find and train new staff in order to ensure the quality of education. How much this amount is and what the sources of cover are, is not yet clear. Purely theoretically, the costs of trying to maintain the quality of study in Ida-Virumaa conditions have been calculated. These costs amount to millions. Even if that money were found, there's a very high probability that people wouldn't be found. The decline in the number of secondary school graduates and the expansion of young people's educational choices have also led to a reduction in the number of students at the Academy of Internal Defence, and this trend continues. The number of graduates does not provide sufficient follow-up to the Police and Border Guard Board. Since it is already difficult to attract people to study at the Academy of Home Affairs, it would be completely irresponsible to exacerbate this situation further. Of the students studying at the National Defence Academy, nearly 3/4 already confirmed in 2012 that if the National Defence Academy were located in Ida-Virumaa, they would not have come to study at this school. Currently, this is the view of 75-80% of learners according to different surveys. In my opinion, raising and maintaining higher education levels, developing research and focusing on how to look for opportunities for professional cooperation with national and international partners would be important at the moment in the case of the Academy of Home Affairs. However, the opportunities offered by the University of Tartu Narva College and the Virumaa College of Tallinn University of Technology should be used to develop Ida-Virumaa, as these schools have a local character and study group, unlike the National Defence Academy. The question was also about the cost of a study place. When comparing the average total cost of higher education per student per year, including investments in infrastructure, etc., by educational institutions, and its change during the 2010/2015 period, it turns out that the costs of the Academy of Home Affairs are the second most important in comparison with higher education institutions after the Estonian Aviation Academy. Moving to Narva and the establishment of an expensive complex would make the total cost of the National Defence Academy disproportionately high per student. The second question: 'What are the expected costs associated with the construction of new buildings at the National Defence Academy and the subsequent operation? What does such expenditure mean for the state budget strategy, and is it clear to you from which additional sources of revenue the Government of the Republic intends to finance this project? " And the third question: " How would such an investment fit into existing schemes for financing higher education and infrastructure development? ' I will answer these questions together. Based on the various variations and calculations, the one-off cost of transferring the Academy to Narva would probably be between EUR 50 million and EUR 60 million. The academy would also increase its fixed costs to date by more than two million. There are also calculations according to which the potential increase in total costs may amount to up to EUR 6.7 million per year. The option of establishing the Narva traineeship base would result in a one-off investment of around EUR 2,1 million and a small increase in fixed costs. The principles of the State Property Act and the strategic aims of the state's higher education are met only by the three options proposed by the government, where Narva will establish an internship base and a continuing training complex and the Tallinn, Väike-Maarja and Paikus study complex will be preserved. With this alternative, it is possible to maintain and develop the level of education provision, as the availability of teaching staff would be guaranteed if Tallinn remained. The documents submitted to the Government indicate that the amount of the one-off investment cost and its source of coverage for this alternative would be known and that subsequent maintenance costs would be the lowest of all three options. According to the Ministry of the Interior, a common internship base and training complex would allow police, border guards, prison workers and rescuers who are not particularly exposed to each other in the learning process to gain experience for the cooperation they will need every day in the future. The remaining alternatives would result in a significant increase in investment and fixed costs and the sources of financing for these costs are largely unknown. Since 2012, the government has discussed the location of the National Defence Academy and the investment of the educational institution on several occasions. I'm not gonna go over all this. In order to improve the conditions of the Academy of Internal Defence, a number of funds have already been invested in infrastructure, for example around EUR 3 million in 2010‐2015. Further expenditure planned for the development of the Academy is much lower due to investments already made than would have been the case if a completely new complex had been established. 750000 euros have already been spent on the construction of the new building of the study campus on Kase Street in Tallinn. The total amount of EUR 16.39 million is planned to be allocated to the existing infrastructure of the Estonian National Defence Academy during the period 2016 to 2019, of which EUR 12.44 million, or 75.9%, is made up of foreign money. The rest will be covered by the state budget and the own revenues of the National Defence Academy. It is also necessary to find 4.5 million for the reconstruction of the training facility of the Paikus Learning Centre and for the construction of the study border of Kase Street. It should be taken into account that, as foreign money is used for investments, one of the important conditions for its use is to improve the quality of learning. In the case of the Kase street study centre, the project fulfils the conditions of the foreign funding measure, but in the case of Narva, it is likely that the project may no longer be eligible. And the last question: 'We all understand that Ida-Virumaa needs a breeding line. What arguments suggest that taking the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa is the best way to give such a boost? Are there other, more effective ideas for achieving regional policy objectives? Do you know what analyses and expert assessments the Government of the Republic has based its decision to move the Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa? ' I do not see that moving such an expensive and sensitive educational institution to Ida-Viru County would be a viable solution alongside the regional policy measures at the disposal of the state. Moreover, as I emphasised earlier, the task of the Academy of Home Affairs is to provide the best possible education, not to replace missing or poorly functioning ideas at regional political level. The Academy needs highly qualified specialists for its activities, which are difficult to find in Ida-Virumaa and therefore has no significant impact on the local labour market. Paying extra staff to work in Ida-Virumaa is an additional cost to the state that does not boost the economy. Expected support staff positions may offer some opportunities to locals, but given the cost of jobs created, it would be cheaper for the state to help create jobs in the region using other measures. The specialties taught at the National Defence Academy are not directly related to the economic life of Ida-Virumaa, so the synergy created by the school for the local economy remains limited. Local entrepreneurs would benefit from moving the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Virumaa, in particular, that the school could buy some services from them, but it does not boost the local economy and does not provide qualified staff to the private sector. Some of the benefits may come from making it easier for local authorities to find skilled labour, but it does not outweigh the costs that the state would incur by moving the Academy of Home Affairs to Ida-Viru County. Although today's inquiry is specifically driven by the Academy of Home Affairs, it is important to think about the ideas that will actually help to stimulate the economic and cultural life of Ida-Viru County, the ideas that create jobs and insurance in private businesses, and the ideas that will help people to realise their skills and knowledge on the ground. As regards the various analyses and studies that have been carried out over time on the topic of moving to the National Defence Academy, the National Audit Office is ready to introduce them to the interviewers separately, in order to save time, both those prepared or ordered by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Academy of Internal Defence and the research institutions, and an alternative analysis of one ministry, which according to the so-called post-truth era, does not allow itself to be greatly disturbed by facts and arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U48	The first question is put by Andres Herkel to the Auditor General.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, thank you for your answers and also for coming very quickly. I am also concerned that these obsessions do not simply run ahead of expert analyses and analyses, but often ignore them completely. This is what your last one said, and also that your statement four years ago has not been taken into account at all, although the circumstances have not changed much. I would, however, extend my question in this way. At the same time, when the removal of the Estonian National Defence Academy was brought up with a large aplomb, there was also talk of the removal of various other state institutions from Tallinn. This may be entirely justified in some cases, but the same question that was already mentioned arises again. Have you been asked to review these matters? What should be the reason for moving at all so that we can really do it with absolute certainty so that the thought does not run ahead, but an effective analysis runs ahead?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U50	Good questioner! In replying quickly, the issue of removal of institutions has not been addressed by the National Audit Office. If you ask for purely my personal position, it is certainly, as you yourself mentioned, feasible and possible, but in this case you must rely on some conditions that make this decision reasonable. In other words, there are still institutions that are not only located in Tallinn. This means, above all, that there are staff and people on the ground who can do this work. Or maybe there's already some kind of cell out there from a certain institution that could be expanded by giving more functions. But this question is so specific. As this plan concerns the transfer of a wide range of institutions to a wide range of different locations, it requires a separate approach and certainly an analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U51	The word for a minute is on Kalle Laanet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General, first of all, thank you for your answers. For me, moving or not moving to the National Defence Academy has reached a new dimension. This enthusiastic attitude has now reached the point where Priit Kama, Deputy Secretary of State for Prisons of the Ministry of Justice, finds that they are ready to transfer the Interior Defence Academy themselves, and says, "Don't worry, let the Ministry of Internal Affairs deal with it later." How do you feel about this approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U53	Good questioner! It doesn't make much difference who's covering the costs of the ministries, which doesn't make much sense. Eventually, everything is state money, i.e. taxpayers' money. I don't see much difference. As for Priit Kama, he named his former Postimees article 'Ida-Viru County Needs the National Defence Academy'. I think this is the wrong approach. It is the Republic of Estonia that needs the National Defence Academy and this should be based on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U54	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can you explain what may come from, that enthusiasm has created a situation where our main objective is to move all state institutions out of Tallinn? Doesn't that put the operation and government of our country in a reverse position? In this case, if it is considered regionally correct to move the Estonian Academy of Defence from Tallinn, would Tartu not be a more sensible place in terms of quality?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U56	Good questioner, thank you for that question. It has a very strong political tone. However, I do not have the authority to decide in which city one or the other institution could be located. The same goes for enthusiasm. In the National Audit Office, we look first and foremost at how sensible a decision is and whether the previous decisions of the government and also of the Riigikogu are carried out in the most reasonable way. As I said in reply to the previous question, there are certainly sensible ideas where one institution or another could be located. As far as higher education and professional higher education are concerned, I would reiterate that their aim is still to support regional development. For example, if we can see that according to Google Maps, Virumaa College, Tallinn University of Technology, and Narva College, University of Tartu, are 53 kilometres apart from each other and both teach IT, then it is probably reasonable to strengthen this aspect in both universities, involving specialists from both mother and local universities and to find applications to them in Ida-Virumaa, not only in the IT sector. After all, the Estonian state has been accused of having no specialists in business. I believe it would make sense for the state to also put resources there, despite the fact that they are public universities and colleges, which are autonomous in a certain sense. But the resource that's there should be used. And in the case of the College of Ida-Virumaa, you should also think about the future of what happens if the oil shale is either not wanted at one point or cannot be mined again, i.e. which areas could then be replaced and how people can be trained on the ground. There is a clear regional aspect and figures; the percentages indicate that those who go to study there from Ida-Viru County usually stay in the same area. The same applies to both the College in Narva and Kohtla-Järve.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U57	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U58	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, Mr. Karis. I liked it when you brought in such an aspect that your assessment includes your previous life experience as a rector. That's why I'm asking. The supporters of moving to Narva College have raised one argument: making the rotation system mandatory for teachers and professionals will solve the problem and will not affect the quality of learning. Do you think that's true? This would, of course, lead to transport and economic costs. Have you assessed the percentage of management expenditure that could be spent on transport and accommodation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U59	Thank you for this question. Yeah, well, I guess I have a certain rector's experience in my past life. In these agencies, I have also been forced to make painful decisions, which have primarily resulted from the need to raise the quality of teaching in these institutions. I can give you an example. In his time he received a closed Türi College which was unable to meet these goals, in particular because there was no local faculty. There were two and a half people on the spot, the rest of the lecturers went from Tartu, both the Estonian University of Life Sciences and the University of Tartu. The real consequence was that the quality of learning fell in both places. The lecturer was on Türi for a week, and he probably didn't take his job very seriously there, even though he probably did his best. There was also a very strong political and regional dimension that had to be fought to justify the decision to close the college. Students had to be brought to Tartu, where they would enter an environment that was suitable for young people, so that they could study in addition to subjects that Tür may not be able to do. I fully understand the politicians at the time, one of whom, as a mother, considered it very important that college be in Tür because his son studied at that school. Yeah, I understand Mom wants her son to come home tonight, not be somewhere 100 kilometers away and live a student life. So I have this experience, and I think that that decision was entirely justified. Türi currently has an up-to-date training centre. So something's going on out there, and I think it's a good one. As far as distance is concerned, of course, I see no reason why rotation in Tallinn cannot be done at this time. It would be a lot easier, because the faculty would be able to work in the ministry and teach at the National Defence Academy. The argument that rotation would seem to be encouraging a few hundred kilometres away is not justified. Then we could do more farther, so that people could rotate. Understandably, it is also possible to solve questions from 200 kilometres away, but it is expensive. However, to give examples of the world, in Chile people are transported by plane. The company takes them to copper mines near the Atacama Desert and brings them back, all at the company's expense, the hotel as well, so Monday they go and Friday they come. Understandably, something comes back from there, i.e. a piece of copper weighs up all this high cost. As we know in Estonia, VKG takes the workforce by bus to Ida-Virumaa, so this is feasible. Still, you have to ask yourself why we are doing this. The goal of a higher education institution, I would like to reiterate, is, above all, to provide high-quality education. However, this does not mean that schools do not have a regional aspect; it certainly does.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U60	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U61	Thank you. I would like to touch on the same question as regards the offer made by the Ministry of Justice. As they said, the Ministry of Justice can take over the real estate necessary for the school's activities. You gave it a half-political assessment. I am more interested in what the view of the National Audit Office is. Does this cross-administration involve any risks and, if so, which ones?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U62	Thank you for your question. I didn't really give a half-political answer. I said that for a cost, it doesn't change anything who gives or maintains orders. We still have cross-administration in the country. RKAS also belongs to a ministry, but in fact many ministries are involved in the work of the RKAS. I don't see a fundamental problem here. It's just that it doesn't change what it is, it doesn't make it 60 million less. All the more so because we have come into a situation where, as you can see, the calculations vary very much. I would remind you that in time, the Ministry of the Interior, led by Ken-Mart Vaher, came up with a calculation that moving to Narva would cost EUR 90 million. So the differences are different times. This reminds me of some 15 years ago, when the size of the cultivated land depended on the authority you asked. There were multiple gaps. But now the time has passed. Prediction is understandablely complex, but fluctuations within such limits tend to increase uncertainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U63	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U64	Thank you. Thank you very much to the waitress for her professional and meaningful response! However, I have this question. On 14 February 2017, the press revealed that Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, said that the transfer had actually already been decided. However, the expert report has only just arrived and the Ministry of the Interior considers it a rather dubious decision. When you spoke of your experience of how a mother wanted her son to come home at the right time at night, go home at home, what could be Minister Reinsalu's hidden desire that he would make his own tantrum on a subject that didn't even concern his ministry? How does it feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U65	Thank you. I am deeply sorry that other ministers answer today's questions, not Minister Reinsalu, or you could ask him directly. But maybe it'll come another time. I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U66	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U67	Thank you, Honorable waitress. You said that it was feasible and possible to remove public authorities from Tallinn. However, in the case of a particular institution, you use as a major counter argument that many of the current staff of the institution did not want to transfer it when replying to the survey. So how do you imagine that in other institutions? Do you really think that if negative answers are collected by means of polls, in any public authority, a positive opinion can also be obtained from somewhere? Or are you going to disprove all the removals of state agencies with the same argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U68	Thank you, good questioner! It is clear that asking frogs for an opinion on the drainage of the swamp is not the most gratifying thing. And yet there's some kind of identity it gives. This interview was carried out by the Ministry of the Interior itself. I also said, in my reply to the other institutions, that if there are conditions there already exist people who could do this work, just as in Viljandi there is, as is known, one institution that carries it out, it is conceivable. There's always resistance to any change. But the main point of my speech today was not whether the workers are opposed or not, but my arguments are quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U69	Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U70	Thank you. Mr. Auditor General! Your assessments of what will result from the transfer have been very precise, including the claim that individual people are obsessed with it. I also thank you for what you said in response to Mr Kisler! Indeed, this is the core function of the state. It cannot be subordinated to the interests of one region if these interests conflict and the country's core functions are damaged. But my question is about the expertise you were talking about. How do you appreciate the fact that the Ministry of Justice is already coming up with a series of obsessional expertise that contradicts others? The Ministry of Justice should be the native wise one who is horizontal. The Ministry of Finance should also really conduct peer reviews.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U71	Thank you, good questioner! I can answer that relatively briefly. Obviously, we should look very carefully at what is actually the competence of the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice in this context, i.e. how much and to what extent the Ministry can contribute to this issue. Understandably, as I said, this is also a political decision. And a political decision would certainly have weight, for example, if we in the Republic of Estonia did not have the Academy of Home Affairs and we would discuss today that it needs to be built. Then the Auditor General would certainly not intervene, at least not on this scale, but it would really be a political decision to make the academy to Tallinn, Tartu, Valka or somewhere else. Ultimately, it doesn't matter, in the context of my arguments, where this National Defence Academy is being taken. However, the issue now is that the Academy of Home Affairs is being taken away from an environment where it is able to provide high-quality education, which needs to be deepened and increased rather than reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U72	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Auditor General! However, your speech also mentioned that it was an expensive project. Some time ago, about six months ago, we discussed the issue of Estonian Air on the special committee of the Riigikogu with you. More than 80 million euros simply went into the trash bin, it was discarded money, for which several National Defence Academys could have been built if they wanted to. What is it, though, expensive? In one case, it's the kind of sum that is not paid attention to, and God was burned down with it, and in the other, it becomes an argument. Please explain to me the difference!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U74	Thank you, good questioner! The answer here is very simple: if there is anything that can be prevented, it must be avoided. As far as Estonian Air is concerned, the National Audit Office also drew attention to this. We also drew attention to events that had already taken place. Understood, 100 million is very relative. But if we go back to higher education, for example, we are currently not finding half a million euros in order to maintain veterinary training in Tartu. Here, too, it is only a question of half a million euros a year, which, I believe, is not so much money as to remember the same figures that you mentioned. It is not just a question of money, I am now going to say several times.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U75	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Karis! You mentioned on several occasions in your answers that the quality of education is the most important one. We have been told about the possible relocation of the National Defence Academy that, if not everyone wants to come along with current faculty, we will find new ones and perhaps even more innovative ones. As the former rector of your two universities, can you comment on how long it will take or how easy and how easy it will be to train competent faculty at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U77	Thank you, good questioner! Life has shown that it all takes about ten years. After ten years, the moment of truth is either successful or unsuccessful. I would like to say at this point that the educational establishment is not a pop-up cafe, that today we will set it up in one place, but if the customers disappear, we will try again in another place. One argument from the Ministry of Justice is that crime is higher in Ida-Virumaa. It's like indirectly one of the reasons why it makes sense to take the National Defence Academy there. Suppose it all succeeds like this and crime falls to almost zero. But then it turns out there's been an increase in crime somewhere else. Will we now take the next step and take the Academy of Home Affairs to, for example, south-eastern Estonia or anywhere where we can show that crime has increased in recent years? It's not an educational establishment to play. There is no point in putting it together by taking one of the public institutions there or there. It's gonna take a long time to build it up there, and it's gonna be worse if we find out at some point that it's not the right place. You can even see that we can, of course, discuss moving the Ministry of Education to Tartu, but it would probably be even more foolish to get him out of there. Now it has gone like this and we must accept this situation. In political decisions too, it is always necessary to know who is responsible, and most importantly, what this responsibility really is about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U78	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear Auditor General, I have to say right now that since we usually have ministers here who talk so round, you are very happy to hear for a change. We have been talking about money here and the amounts are different in different estimates, but at least there are specific figures of either 40 or 60 million, that is specific. But I'd come back to the security risk. Two completely contradictory statements have been made regarding the move. One is that security risks are increasing, due to the elimination of the continuity of internal security, and the other is that they are just decreasing. Can you offer us any standards that can measure the increase or decrease in security? How are you supposed to make such an estimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U79	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U80	Thank you for your question. There are institutions involved in this in Estonia and, as I indicated, an analysis has been carried out. I believe that as a member of the Riigikogu, you will definitely have access to the data, unless you have already gotten to know them. There are clear security risks. It is reasonable to trust those for whom the assessment of security risks is a day-to-day job.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U81	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President, thank you for your report. Here's my question. Estonia has had a plan to concentrate higher education in different security areas in a single educational institution. That's not the idea of taking the National Defence Academy to Narva. High school on a uniform basis is important in view of the broad national defence concept. It has also been pointed out that the transfer of the National Defence Academy to Narva is due to security policy aspects, as the task of the higher education institution is primarily to train professional specialists who will shape the security and security of Estonia. Is the transfer of the Academy of Home Affairs to Narva justified and justified on the basis of security policy aspects? You've already answered that, but you could be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U83	Thank you. I repeat, yes, it is justified because these institutions and the Academy of Home Affairs are, let's say, with their specifics, as well as with the aviation college, which is completely different from the specifics. So universities of applied sciences have their own characteristics and need to be taken into account. In fact, you have already given yourself the answer to your question. It is written in there and this must be taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U84	Thank you. Honourable answer! When you answered my colleagues' previous questions, you mentioned that both students of Narva College, University of Tartu, and of Virumaa College, Tallinn University of Technology, who are studying in Viru County, will most likely remain alive and work in Ida-Virumaa. Looking at the latest statistics, Ida-Viru County lost more than 37000 people between 2000 and 2015. Does this analysis indicate whether and to what extent the transfer of the National Defence Academy would have an impact on the demographic situation of Ida-Viru County?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U85	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U86	Thank you. I have actually already answered that question, in the sense that the two colleges you mentioned are present in Viru County and that the graduates of these schools remain there. Rather, the development of these schools should be amplified, and I will also say, in answer to Mr Stalnukhin's question, perhaps the resource should be put into existing development. There are places to put the money, yes, there are places to put it. I can't answer the question 'What happens if...? '. However, the practice of two higher education institutions shows that there is certainly a legitimate situation in which curricula are linked to a particular region.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U87	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Auditor General, Here today, it has been said on several occasions that there is no logical socio-economic and security arguments against taking to Ida-Virumaa, at least for some people. I have such a little rhetorical question: doesn't anyone want to write themselves into history with a big act? That's what happens to politicians sometimes. You don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U89	Thank you. I'll take it. Of course, I think most people in this room would like to write their own history. It is likely that not only politicians, but also rectors, for example, will do so. At the same time, no one in their day-to-day work like I, as Auditor General, is thinking about how to get to history. I don't think it's one big start-up engine in everyday life. Certainly at one point, when the circle of life has reached the other, they will look back and ask what was done then. I don't know what else to say about this, but I really wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U90	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U91	Good Chairman! Good waitress! According to some critics, this project is inclined towards real estate developers, i.e. real estate development would be like the main motivation to take the Academy of Interior to Ida-Viru County. If you put it on a scale with real estate development at one end and other aspects at the other end, where do you think the pendulum might be in the middle, in the direction of real estate development or somewhere else, in the direction of other aspects?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U92	Thank you! That's the kind of question I really can't answer. I don't know exactly where that pendulum is. But regardless of where something is built, whether in Tallinn or anywhere else, you can't build without real estate. At the moment the building is built, it's leaning towards real estate development, inevitably. What interests are behind everything is certainly very difficult to look at with our National Audit Office criteria. To this end, we have other institutions that could and should do so when this question arises.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U93	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U94	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! You have already briefly mentioned the construction of the internship base of the Estonian National Defence Academy in Ida-Virumaa as one of the possible soft alternatives to the transfer of the entire Academy. Please, could you take a little more time to analyze the pros and cons of this option?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U95	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, our National Audit Office has not carried out an analysis of this. I also do not have any data available concerning a specific training base. But, as I said, it is possible to re-establish a training system. And there are certainly other activities related to the internship base. The idea of running away here is not to think that if there is already an internship base, you could accept it. I do not have an analysis and I am not a specialist in this field to tell you what the specific activities of the internship base are, but one plus is definitely that young people who study at the Academy of Home Affairs can get to know other young people in the course of the internship and also see the activities of students in other fields.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U96	Einar Vallbaum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U97	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable speaker! Several times the word "security risk" has run through. However, if this is a security risk, why should entrepreneurs invest in it or someone set up their own home there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U98	That is a question that is difficult to answer. The local government leaders of Ida-Virumaa have invited people to live in Ida-Virumaa, because there must have been much cleaner water and fresher air than in other parts of Estonia. I don't know what to say about that. But there is a big difference between whether we are talking about an institution that teaches policemen and customs workers or a particular person who, for one reason or another, moves there. Rather, the aim now is not to move institutions or companies to Ida-Virumaa, but to work on the ground on the basis of the people who are there to become entrepreneurs. I think they have experience living and working there. The question now is whether all the conditions have been created and whether there are people with the appropriate education in order for entrepreneurship to develop. As I said, our problem is that IT remains in the public sector rather than in other companies. But further development of IT would also boost productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U99	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your very meaningful and thorough answers. I, too, have heard certain speculations about real estate in connection with this whole process. We probably don't know what to say about that. But I'm interested in a more general subject. We've seen all kinds of coalition patrols for a number of things through the ages. Do you think that common sense and the arguments raised by you and many others, or the political will of a narrow faction, will finally win?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U101	Thank you, good questioner! The questions are getting more and more philosophical. But for sure, common sense wins. It's more a question of when. The important thing is that common sense arrives as soon as possible, so it is possible to prevent great harm or damage. I hope so. You're referring to me, but I'm not here on my own. Rather, I have the feeling that I support the position of many other institutions and people. Taking the National Defence Academy to Ida-Virumaa is not the most sensible idea than expressing yourself as softly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U102	Dear Auditor General, thank you very much for your comments and answers. Based on the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, I will first give the right to speak to the representative of the heirs. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U103	Mr President! That provision did not come to my mind at the top. I would have liked to have listened first to what the fiery supporters of the move, Mr Stalnukhin and Mr Kisler, would have said in order to oppose them. But I guess it's someone else from the Free Party Group and perhaps from other parties. The Free Party is of the opinion that moving to Ida-Virumaa at the National Defence Academy is not practical for many reasons, no matter how noble it is to speak arguments in favour of it. There are very big question marks here. I am pleased that the honourable Auditor General really came quickly to answer the question and remarked the reasons. The greatest concern is undoubtedly linked to the quality of education. The National Defence Academy is different from the Narva College of the University of Tartu. Hence perhaps the answer to Mr Vallbaum's question. No doubt, living, working in Ida-Virumaa and promoting all kinds of activities and education are not per se dangerous. But moving a closed educational establishment to the border so that, figuratively speaking, the Narva River, on the other hand, can monitor how tactics are taught, for example, involves a great security threat. In order to meet regional policy objectives, moving to an educational establishment is certainly not the most effective measure. The main point of education, and I would still say that the only objective is to provide the best possible education. If we try to pursue any other goals, be it regional policy or whatever, then we start building another earth into one earth and it does not usually end well. In this sense, I believe that the past experience of the Auditor General, also as rector of the University of Tartu, is very realistic and we understand things in the same way. Now, as far as bringing the internship base to Narva is concerned, this is definitely an idea that is worth going on with. There is nothing against this if it is well thought out enough. Indeed, in parallel with this issue, as if a complex of ideas leaked out of somewhere, information came out to the public that the government was planning to move some other state institutions out of Tallinn. I think that, in the same way, it is necessary to ask exactly how this is happening, whether it is feasible, at what pace, in what way it is possible and where and how. If we take the National Defence Academy and compare it with, for example, the Rural Promotion Foundation, which we have placed nicely in Viljandi, then here the difference in scale is enormously large, which is easy to do on a mobile basis, so that the quality of work does not suffer from it, and which is extremely complicated. There is certainly a need to think about these things, too, about the possibilities of gradually shifting jobs to regions, which can be entirely possible in many areas, as well as the possibilities of teleworking. Regional policy aspects are not of minor importance; we are far from that idea. They are important, and they can also be realised, but not with the saturday cannon we have been told about moving to the National Defence Academy. And finally, I don't know if there's any connection or no connection between obsessions and real estate interests, but it seems like there is. I hope the investigative press is working on it. There may be some reason why efforts have been made so relentlessly to bring this issue before us, even though all the arguments in common state that regional policy must be promoted by other measures, but it is important to ensure quality in the case of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U104	Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U105	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not engage in political tourism, I go abroad very rarely. However, in some countries in their own time, local government leaders were more or less interviewed in small towns such as Narva. I always quickly found a common language with them, because I discovered that, whether in Hungary or England, it unites us, I do not use a stricter word, that we do not love the central government or the capital of our country. I'll explain why we don't love the capital. Let's say you're a person in the municipality who organises local life. Children are born, and at first you use hard money to build playgrounds, repair and renovate kindergartens. After you've repaired your school, you'll keep up a sports school. You do everything you can to make children grow healthy, smart, and successful. Then, when you have accommodated the local life God knows how much money, they drive away to the capital city or some big city, get an education there and never come back. I mean, we're good enough to waste our money, which is why we still have to invest in the capital. It's like it's normal. But what if the opposite situation arises and if the capital can give something to the outermost regions that have fed this city for life? Another thing local authorities do not love outside the capital is the central power. Because it's like the middle power is half-blind all the time. He usually sees everything very well, but if there are reformists in power, as was the case in 2009, then the pocket and the pocket of the local government are immediately confused. I would like to remind you how in two weeks a decision was taken in this hall, with all the local governments of Estonia losing 5% of their income. And that's what they do all the time. All the time you're given extra assignments and you don't pay for it, you have to figure out how to pay for everything. But then, if you need anything, if you have the chance to do something real to make your city's life better, they'll come here on the remote and start talking about not having a suitable living environment. They are so important gentlemen that they are not fit to live in a city like Narva. They can't teach there either. They're playing clown! Hey, is this one country or isn't one country? Is Ida-Virumaa part of Estonia? Is Narva part of Estonia? What kind of talk is that?! I remember a bit of a squeak in this hall when the Ministry of Education went to Tartu, but no one wants to remember how much money it cost the state and that all this is still causing problems. In his day, Kreenholm had two great privatists, two candidates. One was a huge American group that would have come to the European market to develop and compete in this industry. The others were Swedes. With all due respect, Kreenholm was still a competitor for them. And that's when it was decided to sell the company to a competitor who wasn't interested in having a good future. No responsibility! Today, the vast historical territory stands empty, everything is under heritage protection. And now you are told that those who criticise this project do not want to hear that an anchor is needed there. There are ten major projects there is a spa, there is a hotel, there is an entertainment center, there is even a casino for Russian tourists. There's everything. But everyone wants to see the state installing anchors, doing everything it can, and showing that this territory is expensive to him, and here comes development. The country should put it on its shoulders. Listen, how much longer do I have to listen to stories about regional development and Ida-Viru development programmes? I've been listening to these stories for 18 years. I remember before I was given a few hundred hectares for industrial parks, I had to go to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for four years to ask them, from the same reformists. There's a concrete project right now. There is, of course, a risk. But remember how much money the previous government has thrown to the wind! No reason! Yes, there are difficulties. But who are we dealing with, ballerinas? Are these some kind of blurry creatures that have to shake all the time, or are they strong men and women who have to protect order afterwards? What are you afraid of? Is it that Narva comes back a little more life than it could be there? Are we still continuing this policy that the whole country must be made capitalist? Let's just leave all our neighborhoods, drive all the way here together, and it's the least we can do, so here's the least we can do? It's true if you're listening to your logic in this hall. It's bitter in me right now. Every time there's an idea worth discussing, yes, it has pros, but it also has cons. What do you want, after all, is anyone living in Ida-Virumaa or running out? After all, my colleague Dmitriev told you: 37,000 deceased people in recent years. Soon no one will be there! Or is there something being done to make sure that Ida-Viru County survives? It's just as much your business as mine. Yes, I have been elected from there, and I am defending my neighborhood, but it is Estonia and you colleagues, too, should protect East Viru County. Not only in Estonia, here, Tallinn and Tartu, where life is comfortable, but also where life is difficult. If you don't, what kind of patriots are you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U106	Siim Kisler, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U107	Honourable manager! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, a few comments on the report by Alar Karis. First of all, I was surprised by the statement of the Auditor General that he had not been familiar with the analysis of the transfer of the internship base of the Academy of Internal Defence to Ida-Viru County. This is amazing because the latest analysis of the move of the National Defence Academy addresses the transfer of a traineeship base as one of the possible scenarios. The pros and cons of all the options are very clear there. In addition, the transfer of the internship base is also included in the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan, which the Auditor General has certainly been familiar with. Such a different approach is amazing in one scenario, as if the Auditor General is playing with very specific figures, with a precision of 100,000, but for the other he claims that he has not heard, seen or known anything about it. Secondly, a few years ago, the Auditor General published his position on the move to Ida-Viru County of the Academy of Home Affairs for the first time. At the time, it was very specific that the Auditor General found the removal of one institution from Tallinn to be reasonable and meaningful only in two cases: firstly, if it provides financial savings, or secondly, if it improves the quality of education. Thus, the Auditor General said that if both conditions are not met, i.e. if the financial cost would remain exactly the same or the quality of the study would remain exactly the same, it would not make sense to remove it. Everyone gets to know this written analysis, everyone gets to read it. It is very strange that, in fact, the Auditor General has not taken account of regional policy aspects in his analysis. Thirdly, I thought the amazing position was that the Auditor General said: the removal of state institutions from Tallinn is conceivable and feasible, but the quality of work is important for this institution and therefore cannot be removed. I would like to draw the attention of the Auditor General to the importance of quality in the work of each public authority. It cannot be said that only one type of public authority has an important quality and, in the case of others, it does not matter. This is where we actually get to the content. What are we playing around here for? Everyone in this Chamber understands very well that if any other institution were at issue right now, it would be said in exactly the same way that we did a survey among the employees, that the workers are opposed. In the same way, it would be said that quality will deteriorate if we transfer this facility. It would be exactly the same thing to say that there are risks. This risk argument is particularly amazing, as Einar Vallbaum has already said. Friends, what do you say to an entrepreneur when he says that he is considering a million or several million million investments in this area? When it comes to the transfer of a public authority to that area, it is said vaguely, without making any distinction, that this is a risk. We don't take public authorities there, but you, a good entrepreneur, take your personal property and invest in it, you're worth it. One other aspect that has been highlighted is jobs. There are many jobs created in Ida-Virumaa with state measures, however, with industrial areas, competence centres and other measures. If you look at the statistics, the main problem in Ida-Viru County is not jobs. There unemployment is lower than in several other Estonian counties and the average wage is higher than in other Estonian counties. We understand that the problem of Ida-Viru is its lack of involvement with the rest of Estonia, the lack of sense that the Estonian state authorities are present, and, in the language of the people, that the Estonian state is present. That is why we need to take state institutions to Ida-Virumaa. In this context, the statements made by politicians such as those made publicly by Jürgen Ligi are particularly regrettable. He calls it when a state institution is moved from Tallinn to the third largest city in Estonia, Narva. It's a disgrace. Narva is an Estonian city; it is the territory of the Republic of Estonia. This is also the case, especially for members of the Riigikogu and other authorities. I urge everyone to think about whether you have ever sang with others: "There is no land alone. I don't want to, I can't leave you, Virumaa. ' What were you thinking when you sang it? Did you mean that sincerely? If you really meant it the moment you sang it, do you feel the same way now, or do you now think it's empty because of Ida-Virumaa, let him stay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U108	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's pretty interesting that passions have gone up pretty much. But the subject is certainly important. The previous speakers have spoken about this in the key that if Narva is not taken to the National Defence Academy, Estonia will not be saved. When I look at the analysis that is set out in the article of today's Eesti Päevaleht, it becomes clear that if the state of Estonia takes the Estonian Defence Academy to Narva, the number of Estonians in this city should increase by 1%. If the 5.5% that is now there were added to it, Estonians would be 6.5% in Narva. Now, I can't imagine how to integrate 93.5% into 6.5%. I don't think so. Consequently, the measure that we are talking about here as a matter of national security - whether the Estonian state is in Narva or not - still does not work very well. If we are talking about building a house in any region of Estonia, it is certainly very important. If it is an educational institution, it is exactly the same. But I think it is far more important how we can fill the contents of this building. I mean, we think through who wants to go there, how many are there, what competition is there for one student? We need to see who these people are who are going to train, teach and shape the attitudes of those who should ensure our daily security. Let's turn the time wheel back a little bit, to the years 2005 and 2006, because in that period, I had the honour of being the Minister of the Interior. I was already of the opinion that the Interior Defence Academy on the edge of Lasnamäe did not meet the conditions that would be needed. That was the case at the time, 2005-2006. The year of the students, and it is now. It was then proposed that the Academy of Home Affairs be moved to Muraste as an educational institution. I drove there 20 minutes from the Home Office, and I'm sure it'll take more time to take the bus. Even then, one of the most important arguments was that students can be calmly in a closed educational establishment, but the lecturers consider Muraste to be too distant. And in 2012, when certain gentlemen came up with the idea that Vaat Narva is the right place for the National Defence Academy, I said half-jokes to the very people who had considered Muraste distant, that, see, Muraste is really far away, but Narva is exactly the right distance, that is where the faculty will find. Of course, we can make all kinds of political decisions in Estonia, but any unreasonable decision will cost the taxpayer something. Is it reasonable to spend money in the form that this project wants to do now? We have so many problems in society that more money is needed to solve. If we find that this does not serve the purpose that should be of moving an educational institution from one place to another, then it does not make sense to spend money in this way. If we want to support various projects in Ida-Virumaa, including Narva, we will allocate money from the state budget and do so on a targeted basis, but let's not deal with the appearance. Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U110	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U111	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to thank the Auditor General for his brave speech. The sharp keywords were inside and could also have been Siim Kisler's despised word 'deportation'. But I'll get to that. There is no doubt that this is a politician's obsession with some politicians who have already considered themselves governor of the state in high school and who, at the age when it is time to start thinking about applying for the Riigikogu, have already run so close that they think they have to move mountains because the state is their playground and the people their chess buttons. But according to personal quirks, no government or any state should walk. There are certainly examples of real estate in this obsession, as this idea itself has already become real estate. It turned out today, for some reason, that there is a huge interest in developing a region in Narva with just public money, namely a public institution or a public authority. But there is also another end: there is no secret to the great economic interest in Kase street plot; there are even party tips to it. I would have liked this suspicion to have been overruled today, not confirmed. Education is part of regional policy, but the higher the level of education, the less it can be. Perhaps I am arguing against one of the heirs, but I say that higher education can only be an element of regional policy in rare cases, not in the form of a move. It may sometimes be in the form of representation or creation, but generally education, especially higher education, is certainly with other objectives than the development of a narrow region. On the other hand, security is something that is, if you can say so, national. It is a system that embodies the core function of the state and cannot suffer from regional or real estate obsession. Security, however, will certainly suffer if the tests confirm that moving will create a problem for the offspring. However, the problem of succeeding is currently guaranteed. Whoever goes to study in Ida-Viru County does not represent Estonia in general. And the faculty's frame isn't mobile enough for someone to go back there. All of this is expressed in the internal security accent of the faculty with which he speaks, in his views and representation, and this is a problem. The country's core function must not be affected. The question of security, of course, is not so that there is something to be seen across the border. A member of the obsessed who went to my office a few years ago complaining that there was a very corrupt atmosphere in Ida-Virumaa, referred to security problems and said that it was difficult to operate there. He admitted it and asked me for help as minister. Now he's gone. I don't think he agrees with that crazy idea in his heart. I have really used the word 'deportation', but it is not possible to deport people in the form of a denial in the Republic of Estonia. It's not like you take and play with the buttons, you just move organizations from place to place, and you think nothing's gonna happen. It's gonna happen! The organization is falling apart, he's not willing to move on. Now that's the difference between two processes. This deportation is not possible in Estonia, but Ruhnu can also be deported if we want to in theory. It just doesn't work in a free society. So don't play dumb. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U112	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U113	The reference to playing stupid comes from Kissler, who took my name in his mouth for nothing. Second, he played the stupid word 'quality'. It doesn't make sense to randomly raise institutions into one pot. Alar Karis also pointed out that the redeployment of a closed establishment is quite different from that of an institution where it is only important that there are competent people on the ground. Risks vary, the need for a frame varies and in this sense the impact on quality is also very different. The expertise says that quality is falling, so that is what we should be guided by. We have the problem of reducing secondary growth in internal security, not just the problem of quality. This was also highlighted by the audit or evaluation of the Auditor General. Siim also played a fool when he said he'd buy one, whether a person invests his money in entrepreneurship or state security. No, there are different security risks. There may be a very good workforce and there will be no problem, but there may also be a very big problem if we move a certain type of state institution that must represent Estonia and not the region. Of course, there were still some strange arguments. Mikhail Stalnukhin betrayed that he didn't like the middle power, he likes some other middle power. But it's no surprise. I'll name one more name. Katri Raik, the great patriot of Narva, who was also the head of Narva College. Right now, he thinks it's a disastrous step, being the Rector of the National Defence Academy himself, pay attention! The identification of this institution and Narva College. He says you can't do that. There will be a debate on this tomorrow, and I hope that he will also have the courage to express his position there. It's not a question of frogs. It's a question about Katri Raig, a person with a big soul. And that's not the swamp we're talking about. Of course, to the opposition again: it would always try to stay within the scope of the subject! It gets a little annoying, but it always gets crazy when they say we've seen the rollers around here. Putting all the decisions together isn't gonna work. We're still gonna talk about issues one by one. If there are clear weather views and reasoned views, the majority shall have the right to decide. But now it is not a weather view, but rather a weather confusion and a very practical state decision, where party obsession and rhetoric could be absent at all. Let's stick to the subject, though! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U114	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U115	Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly, the transfer of the National Defence Academy is a campaign obsession of the political faction, which has no relationship with reality. Listening to and reading the stories of those who advocated the transfer, I remembered, no matter what, another political campaign about the history of the past. In 1959, Nikita Khrushchev, the first secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, visited the United States. He was shown a lot of things there. Fortunately, the secretary-general was not taken to an amusement park, otherwise his return would have resulted in a requirement to create an amusement park for every district centre or village council. But he was shown cornfields. What followed? A dear comrade returned to the Soviet Union and started a maize growing campaign, which did not leave Estonia untouched. A mission was given, had to be done. Ministries, agricultural research institutes, agricultural scientists began unanimously to praise the brilliant idea of the great leader, yet it was well known that it did not fit our climate, it did not fit our soil, and so on. But nobody dared say it. Fortunately, at this point, critics may say that the king is naked. However, ministries and several other officials are still forced to praise this stillborn project. At the time, wise collective leaders planted corn only on the side of the road to make it look like we had big corn fields. Of course, such an option is not possible with the National Defence Academy. Slowly, the Soviet campaign went out in a whirlwind. At first, they tried to breathe life into it by giving corn to animals, making a silo, but it ruined the taste of milk. In the same way, taking Narva would ruin the quality of the National Defence Academy, because we know that there will not be a faculty frame, there will not be students in the form of cadets. The experiment that time ended. I hope that the current experiment will not get so far that we should be smart afterwards and say that, of course, we would not say that, the government would say that this was a failed attempt. I hope that common sense wins, the substantive and wise arguments win, and that the interests of the Estonian state will not be restricted by political, economic or real estate traders, but by the interests of the Estonian state. That is why I call on everyone, including coalition politicians, to say boldly that there was no corn growing going through in Estonia, and the transfer of the National Defence Academy is, to put it mildly, just another foolishness. The Estonian Conservative People's Party does not support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U116	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U117	Dear Deputy Speaker! Dear Auditor General, Ladies and gentlemen, I almost didn't come to the speaker's desk, but there were some things left to complain about, especially the speeches by Siim Kisler and Mikhail Stalnukhin. Here, I thought, first of all, I heard some stupid talk, as Jürgen Ligi has already said, but secondly, this cynical mix-up. One very important principle, I think, still needs to be repeated: by moving any institution, we will not solve the regional political problems that have been unresolved for 25 years. It's not just serious talk. In the same way, I would like to say that putting one of the Estonian counties with the greatest economic potential in the same place, clearly committing itself to moving an educational institution that restores the security of the state, is either totally misleading people or inadequate. Of course, I understand the wish of the members of the Riigikogu from Narva to show that they have brought something to their city, which is perfectly understandable. But it's a substitution, a complete substitution. If you move the Estonian Academy of Defence from Tallinn to Narva, none of the declared objectives will be met. At the same time, almost all the negative aspects mentioned for those who want to see are absolutely obvious. In Estonia, the blond question of 'Why not' is very common in ordinary discussions. '. They ask if you want to do one thing or if you're going to go there, and they say, "Why not?" Of course, that's what a blonde would say to his girlfriend if she asked me if we were going to the club tonight. However, if important decisions are taken at national level, be they regional policy or security decisions, then the question is not 'Why not? ', but the question is 'Why? '. Question 'Why? ' But the movers can't answer, so there's a chance that we can figure this out: there's some kind of corruption. Then push it over! But they don't do that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U118	Please, Laine Randjärv! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I actually have an introduction similar to Martin Helme. I got an impulse from a few performers to raise objections. First of all, as a member of the Committee on Culture, it hurts me so much when I start playing with educational institutions. There have been all kinds of regional projects here. We know that some time ago, when the Minister of Agriculture was Seeder, he took one of the jobs to Viljandi to his county, closer to his constituents, right? This can be nice in itself and more justified than playing with an educational establishment. Educational institutions have their own branches or colleges. In 1997, the Estonian Academy of Music expanded with this name, because it was thought that there would otherwise not be enough students to study in Tallinn from South Estonia. It was decided to make a branch of the Music Academy to the Music School called Heino Eller in Tartu in order to expand study opportunities. The University of Tartu has also moved its college to Narva. It's very popular and on a good level. Katri Raik, currently rector of the National Defence Academy, has worked up the College in Narva. Actually, some things are getting mixed up right now. For example, Stalnukhin has said in his report that we do not care about Narva and there is too little Estonian state there. I do not think that experimenting with one working, developing and compactly working educational institution should be the one that shows someone, like the paubushah, whether the Estonian state in Narva works or does not work. It is possible to create a college or a branch to this educational institution, if necessary, if it is specifically related to the National Defence Academy. But it is possible to create a state house or some kind of office there, if you need to move any institutions there to show: the Estonian state is present. But most importantly, I think we should go there and talk to people in the language they understand and talk about what is actually being done in Estonia. My heart really hurts because of Narva, I've been there a lot as Minister of Culture, met people and helped the music school and the students who are there. In fact, people warmly welcome you and are grateful if you go there. But obviously, you don't have to paint the leaves green so that somebody can confirm their ambition. I tell you the truth, the very same question that bothers me most is why they want so much to get hold of this plot, which currently has the National Defence Academy. We have not received an answer to this, and it gives rise, as Mr Baskin once said, to hesitation. This raises doubts, and these doubts are beginning to grow. Moreover, I do not understand in any way why the Minister of Justice must be so passionate about an issue that is not in his administration. At the same time, Mr Anvelt, the Minister for the Interior, is questioning this issue and is rather concerned about the results of the report, as we have read today. It bothers me very much that the Minister of Justice, Reinsalu, has taken the matter as a keelboat and has already said on 14 February that it has all been decided. How can all this be decided if there hasn't been a debate? If it was decided to make a coalition agreement that took place with two fingers in a few weeks, then it cannot be taken seriously. I very much hope that Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, who has entered the hall now, will take up this topic quite essentially, without any whirlwind and simply showing that the Estonian state is somehow present in Narva. The Estonian state must be present in Narva, and it is, but it does not have to come at the expense of breaking up one educational institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U120	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U121	Mr President! Dear Auditor General! Good people's representatives! I have sung that there is no land alone, there is no Virumaa alone. But I also go to Viru County every month, yes, not in Narva, but next to Jõhvi. What we are talking about here today is indeed one of Virumaa's concerns, but it is not so much related to moving or not moving to the National Defence Academy, but to the fact that Virumaa needs Estonia. Needs an Estonian, needs a working hand, needs a reasonable plan to develop. It is not just about Narva, it is also about Peipsiääri, it is about Remnik and Uusküla. There's a lot of these places. The big plan to move on to Virumaa, how to create more jobs there, is not being completed in any way. For a lot of reasons, also because they look a little bit in one direction, then another or a third. But Virumaa is so rich in nature that we should think about and discuss both the values of the natural side and the educational opportunities available. Most of all, I regret that in the middle of the debate about moving to the National Defence Academy, it is not meant to be about what the people of Virumaa feel. We are here at Toompea, in the government and in the ministries we are discussing and deciding and giving the wrong signals. Because speaking of education pedagogically, it is clear to many that breaking and moving a working university does not solve Virumaa's problems. The life of Virumaa is guaranteed by a comprehensive positive view. But the current government doesn't have that. There is one action plan that Mr Kisler referred to, but excuse me, it is outdated, it is poor and it is weak. That's not what Virumaa needs right now. We can't solve these problems in any way either if we break it down and take it to the National Defence Academy. Instead, we create new tension, new contradictions, but we do not solve the real issues of Virumaa. I repeat: I am most sorry that, when we discuss this, we are giving a signal to many local people, as if Virumaa is not cared for. It's not like that! Ida-Viru County and the people living there deserve a holistic, joyful, positive programme that meets the demands of the 21st century, both for entrepreneurship, education and culture there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U122	There's no more calls. If the Auditor General does not wish to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. The answer to the first question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U123	The next question is submitted by Riigikogu members Maris Lauri, Hanno Pevkur, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Ants Laaneots, Jüri Jaanson, Anne Sulling, Kalle Palling, Yoko Alender, Remo Holsmer, Terje Trei, Laine Randjärv, Urmas Kruuse and Madis Milling, and this is about pension reform. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U124	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The sustainability of the pension system is a very important issue. It is quite natural that it is necessary to review from time to time whether the system will continue to function in the future, as forecasts are known to change from time to time. New calculations shall be made, their results evaluated and, if necessary, changes made to the current system. The previous government discussed the sustainability of the pension system at its meeting on 3 November. There it was decided to link retirement age to life expectancy and to allow people to choose when to retire. At the same time, the previous government decided to reject the changes proposed by the Minister for Social Protection, Mr Tsahkna, in the organisation of the first pillar. However, the current government decided to make these changes, i.e. making the pension from the first pillar dependent only on the length of service. I would point out here that there was no mention of this at the time of the formation of the current government. It was then discussed what had been discussed earlier, i.e. certain changes or adjustments to the relationship between seniority and pay. So if there was a discussion here on the previous item about the government holding its points firmly and rigidly, there was quite flexibility in this regard. The linking of the first pillar to wages was once due to the creation of an incentive for people to show their wages honestly. This step was fought against envelope wages. If you give up, some people will inevitably be tempted not to declare their wages honestly anymore. This may lead us to see small wages again and envelope wages next to them. Because it only counts for a year. It has been noted that incomes have an impact on the second pillar, but the fact is that a lot of people are working for tens of years to come, because they never believed in the promise that incomes would continue to have an impact in the first pillar. Now, if we say we're gonna give it up, we're gonna betray people's expectations. This is, however, a violation of the principle of legitimate expectations. People have made calculations, forecasts and seen that their pension comes in a certain size. Now that expectation is decreasing. Yeah, well, that's where the high-paid loses the most. Should it not, however, be that the state thinks of all its people, not only those on small wages but also those on high wages? The creation of confrontations in society does not bring stability to society. Yes, we can compromise, and we cannot always do what everyone wants and wants. However, in order to combine different desires, desires and expectations, we must negotiate, and not by one human group, by any parameter, we will look at the "cross" and say that you can do it anyway, you are too rich. It's not nice. It's not fair. That's offensive. Because those earning a higher salary have often worked very hard to succeed in life. They've learned a lot more, they've worked a lot harder when they're at work. It's not like a higher salary comes by itself. As a result of the foregoing, we have four questions for the Prime Minister, on which we hope to have substantive and good answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U125	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U126	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. I will do as the questioner and the representative of the heirs asked, because I think it is really good to read the question first and then answer it. The first question: 'Why is the current government supporting the payment of small wages? " First of all, thank you very much for this question. Indeed, this is a subject which I believe must be clarified repeatedly in this Riigikogu speech chair. I think it is a good cooperation if you ask about it and I have an opportunity to explain it. But we think the other way around. In fact, according to economists, one way of stimulating the economy is for the recipients of low-discipline wages, as well as the recipients of average wages, to earn higher net wages. There's got to be a solution here. And the current government has proposed an increase in the tax-free minimum as a solution. If we have so far raised it by 10 euros each year, it has given people about two more euros in their wallets. Two euros! Of course, inflation has eaten up this rise. The current government has proposed to raise the tax-free minimum from EUR 180 to EUR 500 next year. This gives a gross wage of up to EUR 1200 to the recipient, and those earning EUR 1200 or less are 65% over the year to an increase of EUR 64. This, however, is 32 times more than the gain of 10 euros resulting from an increase in the tax-free minimum. Going from here to there, and, of course, sharing your concern that we cannot support the payment of a small salary, it will be a breakpoint from the amount of EUR 1776. 88% of people of working age who work and earn less than 1776 euros per month will go to the new income tax exemption system in Estonia. The truth is that we are now asking those people who are earning more than EUR 1776 to contribute more to the cohesion and solidarity of society than EUR 1 to 36 per month. However, in order to raise wages and boost the economy at all, this is, of course, not the only measure. We are also working on a strategic investment programme, which will take EUR 315 million over the next three years. I think it is very good if we get important topics and ways to get the Estonian economy going again and again and again in this honourable Riigikogu speech chair. Now I'm going to talk about this subject a little bit more generally. In my opinion, the questions you have put forward are based on the mistaken assumption that the government wants to make someone worse. In fact, on the contrary, we are paying more attention to the equality of society, which has so far remained unservingly in the background. By improving the lives of those who serve less, we will also increase the living standards of those who serve more in the long term. Greater equality gives a more cohesive society and people greater opportunities to acquire better education or contribute more to health, as well as to reduce crime. In the end, we will all win. I very much enjoyed the way Maris Lauri, the Honorable Member of the Riigikogu, said in the speech introducing the inquiry that the state must think of all its people. The state must think of all its people. That's what the new system does. So this is where our positions really match with yours. Now, we should not discuss lower wages in the context of pension reform, but more generally. Why are wages in Estonia nearly three times lower than in Finland, for example? I also do not agree with ideological opinions that, after tax reforms in the government coalition, people will be less valued for work or significantly more motivated to hide wage income. By ideological opinions, I mean the views you have expressed in this speech chair. For example, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit and parental benefit are all dependent on official salary. The government does not support the payment of small wages. The higher the salaries, the more social tax will be collected in the pension insurance budget, for example, which will enable national pensions to be increased. The pension for current pensioners depends on the social tax paid on the salaries of those currently employed. First pillar pensions increase once a year by indexation. The government has proposed to change the formula for the first pillar of the state pension from 2020 onwards, the first pillar. In this context, pension contributions will also be collected between 2020 and 2036, half of which will depend on social tax and half of the years worked. From 2037 onwards, only the part of the service will be collected. The link with pay will also be maintained in the funded pension following the reform, which will depend entirely on the size of the salary and the social tax paid on it. The higher the pay, the higher the second pillar pension. It is also possible for everyone to continue collecting their pension in the third pillar on a voluntary basis. However, for most of the current pension collectors, the first pillar pension remains dependent on salary, as the insurance units already collected are not subject to reform and pension units are also collected during the transitional period 2020 to 2036. The second question: "Why are better people who have learned more and acquired more knowledge and skills being punished, so that their incomes are higher than average, with lower pensions in the future? ' I repeat what I said in reply to the first question: the link with pay will also remain with the reform of the funded pension, which will depend entirely on the size of the salary and the social tax paid on it. The higher the pay, the higher the second pillar pension. It is also possible for anyone who wishes to continue collecting pension shares in the third pillar on a voluntary basis. I am not accustomed to using words like 'punishment' in the case of a country and not to think that way at all. Punishment cannot under any circumstances be the task or purpose of the State itself. Rather, I call for a creator of equal opportunities in the country. As I said earlier, more equal opportunities will also improve the lives of those who serve more. However, most of the studies have a positive impact on the pension, as they acquire the skills and knowledge needed for work. Thus, learning is an investment in finding a more rewarding job and earning more wages. The higher salary is reflected in the pension, in particular in the form of compulsory funded pensions and the voluntary third pillar. The state spends about 6 to 7% of GDP on pensions. At such costs, it is not possible to allow for a large wage-dependent difference in pensions. The pension reform is not a punishment, but a guarantee of a minimum income in solidarity for all pensioners. Question 3: 'What are the reasons for the violation of the legitimate expectations of those who once gave up joining Pillar II, given that the pension pillar I retains the impact of income on their future retirement? " That is a very good question! Of course, decisions cannot be made retroactively, because then we should always consider how to compensate for it. Here I have a very constructive answer for you. First of all, this has been said publicly, and I have also mentioned opening up the possibility of joining the second pillar once again. It is now referring to the years of birth 1970 to 1982. Secondly, until 2019, the share of insurance dependent on pay and the contribution from the second pillar will be collected in the first pillar. I would like to emphasise once again: the transition scheme for the first pillar will also depend on 50% of wages in the period from 2020 to 2036 and the second pillar will also be paid during the same period. Later, wage dependency will remain in the second pillar and, as has already been mentioned, if you wish, you can make contributions to the third voluntary pillar, so the pension will remain dependent on the amount of income in any case. It can be said that, in the long term, the pension consists of 1/3 of an equal base for all, 1/3 of an apprenticeship and 1/3 of a second pillar or voluntary third pillar dependent on pay. Question 4: "Do you think it is right and fair not to take into account 1/4 of the opinions and interests of Estonian people in pension reform? These are people who lose out on pension changes offered by your government. ' The provisions of the State Pension Insurance Act oblige the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance, to analyse the social and financial sustainability of the state pension and, if necessary, to propose appropriate amendments. I stress that both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance must analyse both social and financial sustainability. According to feedback from stakeholders, inequality among pensioners must not increase. This pension reform actually ensures. More solidarity among pensioners, like you good questioners, you refer to your question when you talk about this 3/4, in fact, a minimum of 75% of the Estonian population wins. And I am absolutely convinced that the 1/4 people you refer to will not be punished. They will have the opportunity to pay back to the second pillar, because we will reopen the second pillar, and of course there will be a third, voluntary pillar. Now, the primary objective of public pension insurance is to provide people with sufficient income in retirement. On the one hand, public pension insurance is insurance, i.e. the contributor to the system must also be recovered from it. On the other hand, it is a system based on the principles of solidarity, which involves both intergenerational and intergenerational redistribution. In order to protect people from poverty in old age, decent old-age pensions must be guaranteed through the redistribution of resources. The total lack of solidarity in the entire pension system would, in my opinion, run counter to our fundamental positions, as well as to the European Union's pension objectives, according to which certain solidarity must also be guaranteed within generations. 25% of people receive an income above the average wage, but it would be wrong to say that all these people lose reform or disagree with the changes. Looking at the overall reform package and always looking at the overall picture, i.e. the increase in the retirement age, the change in the pension index and also the flexibility of the pension system, everyone whose salary is up to three times the Estonian average will actually benefit from the reform. Only about 2% of employees receive more than three times the average wage. But these people also have the opportunity to win with the new system because they can collect their pension shares in a voluntary third pension pillar or increase their pension through other investment products. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U127	The first question is Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U128	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! About 15 years ago, I remember, the IRS took over the administration of social tax from the Social Security Office. At the time, tax culture was very poor, the part of health insurance was paid, but the part of the first pillar was not paid. When it was taken over by the tax authorities, the situation improved considerably, although neither can the tax authorities prove the envelope wages very effectively. I remember that the main message was this: thanks to a personalised tax, you will have better pensions in the future. This forced employees not to accept the employer's forced envelope wages. I have a very specific question for you because you are certainly much better informed than we are. What is the current state of play on whether the payment of envelope wages has increased, decreased or remained at the same level in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U129	Thank you. I am certainly not going to compete here with the members of the Riigikogu or discuss whether I have a better overview of something or not. I would actually like to return once to the introductory speech by the representative of the heirs. He said in an inquiry introducing, among other things, that if this system was ever made, one motivator was honest about paying wages so that there would not be a tax hole and there would be no envelope wages. Let us be honest, I think that a large number of tax administrations and employees have made this system more and more transparent, year after year. Thanks to this, we can say that compared to 15 years ago, which you referred to when paying envelope wages was now greatly reduced. I think that using the idea of the previous President of Estonia here, the solutions that have brought us so far have certainly not been bad, but now the question is whether the same solutions will take us forward. Now I really think it is the moment when we need to think about the sustainability of the pension system. That was also what the previous government was thinking, as the representative of the heirs quite rightly referred to. I think that this issue was discussed not only at the beginning of November, but also several more times. After all, we want the pension system to make society more solidarityable. And certainly more flexible, i.e. retirement is linked to life expectancy and people can choose when they retire.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U130	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U131	Thank you. I am not asking you, Prime Minister, to compete with members of the Riigikogu, but I expect respect for them. So that when they ask you specific questions, you don't talk hollowly about everything and nothing, forgetting what was asked. It's an incredible amount of text you've thrown into this room today, and inaccuracies. However, as you have already been able to talk about stimulating the economy, please explain how the decoupling of the pension from the sole investment risk of the first pillar of the pension, i.e. the state pension, which is free of clear and generational solidarity, from tax payments and individual efforts will stimulate the economy and tax payments. How does this contribute to the sustainability of the pension system? Please don't tell me about the next pillars, talk about a public pension, which is without investment risk and which is currently being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U132	Thank you, good questioner. Indeed, the previous questioner asked about the envelope wages and also referred to 15 years ago. And I replied that the payment of wages thanks to the tax administration has certainly become better, more honest thanks to the Riigikogu and governments. As a result, the share of envelope wages has also decreased. But to come to your question of how he contributes to the economy, let me give you an example. According to the current system, if we go forward with the same pension system, we will be faced with the next scenario. We will base the data on, for example, the 2015-2030 and 2050 years, and we will also take into account the purchasing power. The current median pension is 360 euros. If we go forward with the same system, it will fall to EUR 310 by 2030 and EUR 280 by 2050. If we take an arithmetic average pension, it will be 360 in 2015, as it is today, it will fall to 330 by 2030 and 310 by 2050. This is just one example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U133	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U134	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! You yourself said in your speech that the system can still be supported by people currently working. And it is likely that, in any other solution, the same question is whether there are working people who would pay the tax. There must certainly be more and more new solutions to the pension system, even for part-time work. What are government ideas, and how could part-time work be motivated? What measures are you planning?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U135	Thank you, very correct and precise question. If you ask for measures, I will give just one example of making work more flexible. I believe that parental benefit has been a good system for the Estonian state. I really think so. This has certainly given confidence to young families. Now, however, we are caught up in the problem of very many women being excluded from work for 18 months because of parental benefits. This makes it harder for them to get back to work and increases the component of the pay gap. However, this means that they lose their qualifications. One measure that has been seriously discussed by the government is whether the parental benefit period will continue to last for 18 months. Another thought has been that a woman or a man, i.e. a child's mother or father, can choose whether to go to work or come back. And most importantly, when a family mother or a family father goes to work, he gets a certain amount of parental benefit. In any case, this more flexible approach to the labour market is one measure that ensures that more young people return to the labour market and they return so that they do not lose so much of their qualifications.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U136	Martin Helme submits his only oral question to the addressee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U137	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! You said here in your speech, in answer to questions, that you would ask people with higher incomes to be able to contribute more. I got it right in my ear. Are you asking these people or are you asking the Riigikogu to legalize it now? What if we go to people and say please pay more, but they say no, thank you, we don't want to pay more? That's one thing. Another thing I would like to draw attention to, and what really, really bothers me about this whole debate, is the rhetoric of class rage. I don't blame you for this, but for some of your party associates. Talk about beating up the rich and taking away the rich. In my opinion, as you yourself mentioned, there are rich people in Estonia, those with more than three times the average salary, a small fraction that is disappearing. In fact, work should be done to increase income. How does this retirement thing help?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U138	Thank you for the two-way question. I'll start at the back. I think that all anger, any class rage, even rhetorical, is neither good nor right. This is not in line with our legal space, and it is certainly not in line with European values, with a European cultural space. After all, in my answers to the questioners, I made it clear that the state must not punish anyone, that cannot be the primary function of the state. Why are we doing this pension reform? After all, we are doing this because, as the previous questioner, a member of the Riigikogu, Külliiki Kübarsepp, mentioned in his question, that there are really problems in ensuring that pensions are paid out in a sustainable way and that as much money as possible is paid out. That's one thing. The second thing, I think, is that giving people more freedom so that they can choose when they retire is very reasonable. It is good that life in our country is increasing. This is also one of the reasons why we make retirement dependent on average life expectancy. I am happy to quote Maris Lauri once more, who introduced this question. He said, "The state must think of all its people. ' I think such a more solidarity-based pension system in the sense of the first pillar will certainly help to do so. When you think about those who are earning more now, I also think that they must not be punished. And they won't be punished. For those whose birth year is between 1970 and 1982, the second pillar will be reopened if they wish to join. But the voluntary third pillar will not go anywhere. In the current system, we will change nothing for the current pensioners. We will not change anything for the very large part of the people who are now working. This transition period, as I said in response to the inquiry, will be between 2020 and 2036. Only then will the system as a whole move to new principles, according to which the first pillar will really make pensions more solidarityable. So in this sense, I fully agree with you: no class rage, even on a rhetorical level, must be tolerated and there is no justification for it. Now I will answer the first part of the question: who will do it? It's the honourable Riigikogu. If the tax-free minimum rises to EUR 500, then really, as I said, a very large proportion of the working-age population of Estonia who are working will win. I also highlighted the magnitude, which is 88% of the Estonian people. Yes, I really used the wording that, in the name of a more solidarity, stronger and also more cohesive society, we are asking those people who earn more to contribute EUR 1 to 36. The exact amount depends on how much more they get paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U139	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U140	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Your predecessor, the former Prime Minister and Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Ansip, have also studied the proposed pension reform and have not really beaten it down. What he has said is that it is essential to ask for the mandate of the people to change the pension system. How are you going to do that? This would mean that elections should be approved. What do you think of that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U141	Thank you. I share the opinion of the Vice-President of the European Commission on such a more social or coherent system. And like you said, he hasn't really buried it. Sometimes it's a good look on the outside, sometimes it's a good look. Now that you are asking about the mandate of the people, about the need to change the pension system, several parties currently present in the Riigikogu have also spoken before the 2015 Riigikogu elections, and not only have spoken, but have also written their programme into this principle. At least the party I represent. We have promised our voters very clearly: we want the pension system to be more sustainable, it must be more flexible and certainly more solidarity. But the mandate of the people can only be given by the Riigikogu during the inter-election period.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U142	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! Your answer to the first question went completely wrong. Our question was about promoting the wages of the envelope, not about the minimum wage. But since you yourself highlighted this issue in this way, I say that the changes to the pension reform, according to which the pension will only depend on the years of employment, plus a very large increase in the tax-free minimum, will motivate the payment of the envelope wages. I can assure you, according to the figures, that the payment of envelope wages will increase. Why are you still taking the steps that increase the share of the envelope wage? Do you need anything in return?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U144	Thank you, good questioner! This is, in my opinion, a bigger philosophical question, whether we trust Estonian entrepreneurs or not trust Estonian entrepreneurs. Do we think that Estonian entrepreneurs will pay the envelope wage in any case? I guess the fear or fear that you have marked is not far from being the principle of the Reform Party, but I am just saying what you have spoken about, it is justified. Of course, there is always such a danger, whether they do it or not. I would trust Estonian companies. Well, I do, anyway. However, the rise in the tax-free minimum has been a request from businesses, a signal to the state, for the last few years. Even one aspect of Eesti Pank's latest reports is that the recipients of wages in the smaller and medium decile must be helped further so that their net wages are higher. If you asked me why, I'll answer. I think that better work in every sense of our Tax and Customs Board needs words of praise. The development of e-solutions has also contributed very much here. So, isn't that really the question of whether we trust the state's control mechanisms or not? I said about entrepreneurs that, in my opinion, innovations do not mean that their first reaction is this: Ahh, now there is an opportunity to pay envelope wages. On the contrary, I think they will react this way: my employees or employees will earn more net wages. It also ensures a more stable human resources policy, as well as better quality goods or services provided by the undertaking. As far as state trust is concerned, this is a place of trust or distrust. But I think we both agree: the Tax and Customs Board has done a good job and shown a very correct direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U145	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You spoke of opening the second pillar and contributions there. The second pillar is a nice place to put money in, but according to current laws, it is very difficult to get out of there. Will there ever be a change in it, and when will it come? Because maybe those who have small amounts there will just get caught, and those who have very large amounts will also receive special benefits, but it is precisely the average amounts that are currently very limited. What are the changes in this plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U147	Thank you. When we are talking about a change in the whole system, i.e. making fundamental changes and saying that the sustainability of pensions is a problem in society, because they should be sustainable in terms of financial, fiscal policy, and the cohesion of society needs to be increased, it really is important to open the second pillar. Now, in answering your question, I say this: we must take into account that there is no final draft law in the Riigikogu or in the government at the moment. On the contrary. The new pension reform has been discussed in the authorities and also in different governments, I dare say, for the last few years. Even now, the final draft law is not ready. It has been said that we want it completed next March, 2018 in March, so that the Circa year is still going. What does that mean? That the final answers to all questions will have to be found during this year. I think today's discussion will play its part in this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U148	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U149	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! I will continue, in a sense, with the previous question of the second pension pillar. You have said several times today that it should, as if, compensate those people with a higher salary for a possible reduction in pension, which depends on the plan of your government. But I'd ask you more philosophically. The second pillar system has been in place for many years now. What is your assessment of this? Has it been our success story, or has it not quite been as hoped perhaps 15 or 20 years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U150	Thank you. First of all, I would like to correct one point. The pension reform certainly does not reduce pensions. On the contrary, the pension reform will increase pensions and give people in different wage democracies the opportunity to receive a higher pension. First of all, the 1970s were 1982. When we discussed this in the office, I asked myself why these years have been taken as the basis and why we are not going to be in the past. They said it wouldn't change from the calculations. From the new system and the reopening of the second pillar, if we count on the new system from 2037 onwards, those whose year of birth has been 1970 can really win. Now, you asked whether the current system that we have had, I think you said 15 years, was a success story or not. I myself joined the second pillar at the very beginning, then voluntarily. I even joined the third pillar voluntarily. So I don't know if it's a success story, but it's definitely a positive story. This provides an opportunity to raise a pension; the state contributes more to the second pillar than the payer himself does to that pillar. It is, in any case, an adjustment to the new way of life, to the new economic model. If it were to be applied to either the negative or the positive side, I'd be wearing it to the positive side in any case. About the story of success, I don't know how to define it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U151	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would remind you that every member of the Riigikogu has an oral question in the round of inquiries. I would advise you to state your thoughts in a round of negotiations with a wide range of opportunities. The next question is yours, Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Good front speaker! You have expressed the opinion that the impact of this reform on envelope wages or incentives to pay lower wages is negligible. But the experts have made it very clear that, even if this so-called tax refund leads to short-term consumption, and it could seem like an economic recovery, our main concern is, however, structural changes in the economy. In fact, the time for cheap jobs in Estonia is coming to an end. Aren't you afraid that this will give a completely different signal, i.e. there is no longer any incentive to think of smarter, or higher value-added jobs, where people would get a higher salary? Otherwise, the government should start raising the tax-free minimum every year so much that it no longer comes with the real economy. In the end, however, we may have fewer jobs than we do now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U153	I fully share the view that if the tax-free minimum is to be raised, it must be increased strongly, not by small parts, for example by 10 euros. On the other hand, what you said about smart jobs, I will sign with two hands. I hope that all six groups will be in favour of this. The improvement of the economic structure and the business environment cannot be seen as just one part. Certainly, the rise in the tax-free minimum is not a magic wand that will lead to economic growth. This must be seen, I think, in the context of various measures, certainly also in the context of investments. There are many of the measures that we are currently planning to improve the economic environment. Be it less bureaucracy for self-employed people, easier management, making special distinctions for energy-intensive companies to come here for foreign investment, or 20 million in the next year of the state budget project, for which the coalition has found in its agreement that it could make certain sectoral differences in order to contribute to economic growth. There are also differences in the maritime sector, the shipping sector, or certain fiscal changes, such as the non-relevance of VAT on accommodation establishments, the non-removal of excise duties on diesel from next year. And, of course, investments, because they play a major role in supporting and launching the economy. The Investment Programme foresees 315 million over the next three years. There are IT investments to ensure faster internet capabilities, as well as infrastructure investments, which are certainly very important for businesses. So I think, good questioner, that it must certainly be viewed as complex, and I think the current government is doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U154	Thank you, Prime Minister. No more questions for you. The negotiations will be opened by Maris Lauri on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U155	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! I have to admit, unfortunately, that the Prime Minister did not answer questions of inquiry. We heard six minutes talking about the government raising the tax-free minimum, but we did not hear an answer to this question, which others have repeatedly asked here, namely on the promotion of envelope wages. I don't think anyone wants to pay the envelope wages, but the reality is different. And the role of the state is to do everything possible to prevent the creation of incentives to pay envelope wages. I also believe that most businesses are honest. But sometimes, unfortunately, when there is temptation, financial temptation, people give in to their ethical beliefs. We also did not receive any answers about joining the second pillar. Yes, it may be opened, but I would like to remind you once again that not everyone has a second pillar, not everyone can join it, it does not make sense to join it. These people will surely lose by comparing their expectations to what they now think about. I also point out that, in fact, people have not been told about these changes, at least not enough. Everyone understands that there are problems with the sustainability of our pension system, but just come and say that this is what we are doing, and that is all, the point, that is not the way it is. We should discuss things, discuss them. Our pension system is quite solidarity-based. It is therefore not quite appropriate to claim that there is not enough solidarity here and that people should be even more solidarity. Of course, it was interesting to hear the Prime Minister say that people are now being approached and asked to give them some money. That was the first time the Prime Minister came out with such a soft move. All previous speeches, including those of other ministers, have been such demanding, insulting and derogatory. I really hope that the discussion will come in the future. And another suggestion to the Prime Minister to respond to future enquiries, such a friendly suggestion: give clear short answers. We really want to understand and discuss things. We have all heard about the electoral programmes and ideas of your party and government; they do not need to be repeated. Thank you for the forthcoming substantive discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U156	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! I asked the Prime Minister to respect and answer a specific question. But he did it again, he did not answer my question about how the decoupling of a publicly guaranteed pension from an individual effort stimulates the economy. The question was about individual efforts and tax payments. We heard a round talk again about everything and nothing. He did it here for half an hour. The Prime Minister thus expressed disrespect not only for the Riigikogu, but also for the institution of the Prime Minister. Both speech and answers were academically weak; they were out of the question; they were word doctors. Indeed, as Maris Lauri said, we did not receive any answers. That is not the answer when, twice, one of Maris Lauri's phrases is used for replying from a longer speech and it is said that I will give an example. It is all academically weak and shows that the Prime Minister is either dishonest or stupid. I wouldn't want either. Once again, Mr Jüri Ratas, I ask you to learn to discuss specific policy issues. They are very important and fundamental, affecting all people. In the final reply to Urmas Kruus, the same was repeated. Again, there was a word out of nothing, and there was no answer to the question. I don't understand whether it's an inability or an unwillingness anymore. I'm serious. I don't mean to be evil, but it's just distressing. There were other places of disrespect. What does the phrase 'we ask taxpayers to pay more' mean when they already have a higher tax on the cluster bill? Why is there even talk about taxation when we asked about pension? We wanted to hear a comprehensive and intelligent explanation for the pension system. All right, it may be on the left, but it has to be intelligent. But it was unintelligent and out of the question. We were talking about incentives. You can't get past the point of trust and distrust. Nor can it be said that the IRS has done a good job. We need to focus on the incentives we create for society. We create incentives at individual level. I am saying that most responsible citizens think that his own efforts depend on his old age, his retirement age. But he also thinks that there is a big difference between the first pillar, which can be used on a rolling basis, its life expectancy without forecasting and without investment risk, or that it is an abstract investment fund with no certainty whatsoever and it is not known whether it guarantees our future or not. What kind of contract are we going to make, how can we use our money? That's the problem. These are not equal pillars; these are completely different pillars. Other pillars have been made to solve long-term problems, but they do not allow us to answer how solidarity between generations works. After all, intergenerational solidarity can be proven by increasing stature shares, but you say that salary and tax paid do not matter anymore. It all affects people's behavior. It affects the economy. It's just a question of whether we value education, effort and ambition, or we say I don't give a shit, let's do one thing, so now these and these get more. In fact, you are talking about something else that is not at all a pension issue. It's actually pretty scary! And then there's the story that everyone wins, only loses 2%, but they can actually win. Where's the academic level? Where is this respect for institutions that are two here: the Prime Minister and the Riigikogu? I really advise you, Prime Minister, to change your style. We'd actually like to start a debate with you, even though you're not used to doing this, you've had a different style. But now it's time to learn, and that's why we're asking you questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U158	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U159	Dear Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! When it comes to pensions, the views of the party and the political group are usually formulated on behalf of the Free Party by a good colleague, Monika Haukanõm. However, since he is now serving the Estonian state far from this hall and home country, I have the opportunity to introduce a little bit about the views of our party and political group on the pension system. I also allow myself, on behalf of my colleagues, the opportunity to extend the subject of questioning in some ways. In our opinion, undoubtedly, the question of whether there will still be pensions in the next 20 to 30 years and what their size will be, depends on two things: the state's current decisions and just as much on people's own behaviour, as well as the widespread perception that each person is still bearing ever greater responsibility for his or her own well-being, including pension. As representatives of the country, what should we consider and decide together? The first thing, of course, is how big a pension could be and how big it should be. The government has set itself the goal of pensions to be around 40% of the average wage in the future. We think it's a little less ambitious. This target could be more ambitious, around 50% of the average wage. This would ensure ageing in a dignified way, without suffering from poverty. Understandably, you are now asking: "Dearest man, where should this vast array of money come from? ' First of all, our current small pension is caused by the fact that we have many different schemes, so-called special schemes. We have a disability pension, we have early pensions, we have preferential old-age pensions from the age of 53, we have earned old-age pensions from the age of 40 and we have special pensions from the age of 50. In the course of our discussions, the idea has been born that they should all be very seriously reviewed, some of them might even be lost, and certainly something should be changed. Mr Monika has pointed out to us one such example that at present, 40% of men and 30% of women receive a different type of pension before retirement age and it costs 25% of the pension insurance money. Retirement age. The current government plans to link retirement age to life expectancy as of 2026. Yes, we agree that a certain retirement age is really not reasonable, but perhaps it would be worth considering linking retirement age to life expectancy rather than to healthy life years. It's something else entirely. Unfortunately, this has not increased at all in Estonia in recent years, unlike the life expectancy. The number of healthy lives in 2010 was 58.2 and 57.1 in 2015. In the European Union, these averages are considerably higher, even five years more. If we don't have a healthy life span, what does that really mean? That the state is forcing us to work longer with health problems. We also think that the retirement age could be flexible, i.e. a range could be defined for a person to retire, for example, 63 to 68, and a person could then decide for himself on the basis of his or her health, employment and wishes. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U160	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U161	Now we have the possibility of pre- and deferred pensions, but this system, according to specialists, is not very motivating. People aren't very aware of all the possibilities either. It should certainly be considered whether this system, which is currently in force in Estonia, is relatively unique in the world's practice, where a person on retirement pension who receives a state pension, who also goes to work, receives both pensions and salaries at the same time, or whether there are opportunities here. For example, if you work, you do not receive a pension, but in this case the deferred pension scheme will apply, the later you retire, the higher the pension you receive. On the contrary, it should also be possible to go to early retirement, which is not very useful, but is possible. There has already been talk of a flexible pension withdrawal here today. We, too, believe that the sum of the second and third pillars should be available, and that the person should be able to decide whether he or she takes it all out at once or in parts. Some of the government's intentions we fully support. We believe that the government is on the right path with special pensions and also with the increase in the tax-free income of pensioners so that the average pension is exempt from tax. But now for the main issue, the main issue of today's inquiry, the pension rate. The previous speakers and heirs have already raised arguments here for a long time, and there is a great deal to agree with. If we create a situation where people who earn more and pay more will get as much as those who earn less, then of course the motivation to earn more will disappear. And let's just say it's a pretty socialist approach, we think. On the basis of the current formula, the income-dependent part is 60%, but when the government's plan is implemented, it will be 30% instead of 60%. We do not believe that such a severe fall in income is justified in any way. The system must in some way also take into account the taxes paid in such a way as to motivate people to earn more. When the Prime Minister here insisted that the second pillar would remain and that there would be a difference between pensions, it was not quite by accident that I asked the Prime Minister whether he considered the second pillar system of Estonia to be a success story or not so much. I have encountered the concerns of many people and the opinions of those who are actually very disappointed in it and do not consider it to be a special success. But this is already a new topic and a possible basis for further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U162	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U163	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recognising that it is really very difficult to obtain information from the Prime Minister, although his main task should be to provide the information requested by the Riigikogu. We really want to understand things and understand government initiatives. If the government has taken decisions to change the pension system and also the tax system, which may affect the distribution of envelope wages, then the question arises as to how we are now in the situation. I didn't ask for a comparison with 15 years ago. Of course, the shadow economy has receded 15 years ago compared to time, because then the pay-as-you-go business was well-off. The Tax Administration, the predecessor of the Tax and Customs Board, took over the administration of social tax from the Social Insurance Board and the situation improved considerably. But IRS hands are still short to prove envelope wages. My question was about the last few years. And I would even accept the answer for the last two years. Look, the question is, you need to know what the situation is. If the share of envelope wages has increased in the last two years compared to previous years, the problem will get worse. If the spread of envelope wages over the last two years is at the same level as in previous years, then the problem is fixed. However, if the share of envelope wages has decreased in the last two years compared to previous years, the problem is coming to an end. That's what I'd like to know. Studies on envelope wages are carried out by professional institutions: the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance and, for example, external experts assess the tax hole. But the thing is, these studies don't exactly match. That is why I asked the Prime Minister a question in order to understand the situation we have. It must be taken into account, as I said, that the government has made decisions that affect the payment of envelope wages. If the Prime Minister does not have an answer, I can say that I cannot answer right now, there are no precise data at the moment, but I will send a reply in writing. I also accept a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U164	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U165	Prime Minister! Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Despite the fact that we have had a great deal of talk over the last few weeks about the planned pension reform, half of the people do not fully understand it. That's what they admit in street, radio, and other polls. At the same time, it can be said that fragmented time is not conducive to deepening, and too many of those who think something only amplify what they hear from others or thirds. So I'm trying to make a few things out of wood and red. The future-oriented pension reform will not affect any of today's or tomorrow's pensioners. The already earned insurance shares, which depend on the salary, will remain, never come to anyone's mind. The plan has initially only gone through the government, the bill is expected to form it in the coming year, and even in the case of a relatively painless procedure in the Riigikogu, the transitional period is planned for the years 2020 to 2037. The restructuring process would be smooth, with such a long twist that the system would only have a full impact on the current school children. It is therefore pointless to try to calculate with euro precision how much one person or another could win or lose the reform. The analyses and calculations have been carried out on the basis of forecasts. None of us can tell exactly how many people there will be in Estonia in 20 or 40 years, what is the ratio between employees and pensioners, and even less, what is the average wage. The current population of Estonia is 1.31 million. In 2060 it could be 1.11 million, for example, and the ratio between employees and old-age pensioners would be slightly less than 1.3 employees per pensioner. For 20 years, we have had, on average, just over two employees per pensioner. The increase in the retirement age until 2026 has also been taken into account. Since then, it is intended to be linked to the expected life expectancy. Most importantly, however, it is still under the shadow of the current rule: the reform creates the prerequisite for a transition to a flexible retirement age. If certain conditions are met, the person can choose to retire according to his/her own health, working conditions and family circumstances. Whoever can work longer will, of course, receive a higher pension. The task of the state is to protect its people from poverty in their old age. If no changes were made, a large number of people would not live with their small pension in the future and the state would have to support them. The size of the pension is largely determined by the state's financial capacity, which in turn depends largely on the number of people of working age in terms of the social tax they pay. Almost all of the stories of pension reform have gone through the idea that the recipient of the average wage will not win or lose anything. Now, your attention, please. 77% of current employees aged 22 to 62 earn less than average wages. It's more than three quarters of the country's workforce. These are not just cleaners, although the janitor is also a worthy person, much needs to be done and well done. Under the average, we also have researchers, kindergarten teachers, librarians and museum people to tell the truth about the lion's share of all those who have not linked their lives to our financial capital. They may not be ignorant, lazy, or stupider than a successful businessman or a big-mouthed politician. Scissors between wages are like in some Latin American countries. My experience tells me that people's sense of justice, or even their sense of decency, is the thing that hurts the most, that you work hard and work hard, that pension money still accumulates only with a finger. More than 560000 persons employed have a pension insurance ratio of less than one. As the current system continues, the huge income inequality will also be passed on to pensions with increasing momentum. If now the difference is 1.7 times, then in the future it would be quadruple. However, we cannot allow labour poverty to turn into pension poverty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U166	Do you need more time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U167	People who are now earning a lot of money are going to receive more pensions than those on small wages anyway. The reform is working as a package. The larger difference comes from the second pension pillar, which remains dependent on wages. The plan is to open up the possibility of joining the second pillar for those born in 1970-1982. I would like to say here that the attacks on pension reform are completely baseless and malicious. The amount of pensions will continue to depend on the amount of salary. The pension reform plan was not born overnight or without analysis and discussion. The prospects and amendments to pension insurance have been discussed for two years, including several times in government, including the Reform Party. Several stakeholders have been involved. In summary, the changes do not relate in any way to the current retirement pensions or to the insurance units already collected. The current pensioners do not need to worry, their pensions will continue to rise from 1 April, depending on the overall wage increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U168	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U169	Good Chairman! Since it is not possible to ask a second question, not even a clarification, I must come here with a remote control and explain what I expected of the Prime Minister. Yes, I asked about the possibility of flexibility in part-time work, but above all, thinking about the elderly. Let me give an example of how we need to change our attitude. There was a major competition for the EU Presidency, and reinforcements were sought. People wanted to know foreign languages and know the city and to be able to deal with people in between meetings, to pass them on. But, unfortunately, it happened that the age of a person was looked at, not that he had tongues in his mouth from living in a foreign country, his legs and hands moving, his mind in his own place. We should also think about how an elderly person who receives a pension, which is perhaps not very high, would have the opportunity to earn extra money, because we have to take into account that we have a shortage of hands anyway. But it also requires a slightly more flexible system of labour taxes. The Free Party has spoken of an hour's salary, for example. It should be considered that the proportion of a person's taxes is just as large or small, zero decimal points, if it is based on his or her employment contract. In fact, we have close countries that have very good practice and we could follow suit. Perhaps we are asking what foreign experiences are being used and what analyses and conclusions the government has drawn from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U170	Members of the Riigikogu no longer have any requests to speak. However, the Prime Minister would also like to take part in the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U171	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear members of the Riigikogu and heirs! Once again, thank you for asking me this question. There were accusations that the Prime Minister didn't answer questions for questioning. I answered all four questions that were asked in writing. I also answered the oral questions. Aivar Sõerd has pointed out here that he cannot obtain information from the Prime Minister, and that is a problem. Surely this problem must be resolved; such a problem cannot remain in the air. After all, we have the opportunity to respond to enquiries within the framework of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. There's a briefing. But there are other possible solutions. If the one, the other, the third or the sixth political group of the Riigikogu calls, then a member of the government must definitely go there, including the Prime Minister. I say completely sincerely, without any irony, that I had a very interesting meeting some time ago in the Reform Party Group. The chairman of the party, Hanno Pevkur, invited me and, of course, I came to your group. And surely Estonia is such a lovely country, on the other hand, but also such, I would say, a compact country that we can communicate with each other. If there is a desire to communicate anywhere, then in any case I am willing to meet and discuss matters. I agree with Aivar Sõerdi that I did not specify the information on envelope wages. I'm sure I'll send you the exact information where the numbers are written as soon as possible, because I don't want to be wrong with them. Now the issue of envelope salaries in general. I am sticking to my position: it is a question of trusting businesses, it is a question of trusting the Tax and Customs Board, and I think it is also a question of trusting the citizen. I think that as time goes on, the less people are willing to accept the envelope salary at all. Because more and more we're thinking about our retirement. There is also an increasing number of products or services on the market that require us to lease them or to lend them, show the wage component or pay. I'm sure the envelope wages aren't gonna work here. They said that there had been no political debate on pension issues. Personally, I've been debating my pension politically, I believe, for the last ten years. That is what I think, if I may make a modest suggestion that the Reform Party should not oppose bankers and people who receive medium or low wages. Honourable member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi took this opportunity to discuss whether the respondent is foolish or unwilling to understand matters. I don't know, my nursery completely precludes you from making such assessments about someone that man is stupid. But it's a child's room issue, isn't it? Now, about valuing education, which has been emphasised here. In reply to my second question, I made it very clear that, in most cases, studies have a positive impact on the pension, as the studies acquire the skills and knowledge needed for the work. Thus, studies are an investment in finding a more rewarding job and earning a higher salary. I think we can discuss this issue at least until March next year, and that is positive. I very much hope that today's questions, raising the subject and giving opinions are also part of this debate. And we hope that this idea of pension reform will also improve through this debate, I sincerely believe it. Thank you to everyone involved in this discussion! In my opinion, the new pension system, Heljo Pikhof, has explained very calmly, well and constructively. So thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U172	The debate on this item was closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U173	We have already come to the third question by Arto Aas, Maris Lauri, Remo Holsmer, Toomas Kivimägi, Urve Tiidus, Aivar Sõerd, Lauri Luik, Urmas Kruuse, Jürgen Ligi, Johannes Kert, Meelis Mälberg, Yoko Alender, Heidy Purga, Madis Milling, Kalle Laanet, Laine Randjärv, Ants Laaneots, Deniss Boroditš, Liina Kersna, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Kalle Palling, Hanno Pevkur and Taavi Rõivas. On behalf of the heirs, Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U174	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present the text of the inquiry on behalf of 22 members of the Riigikogu. This concerns the reform of state reform and, above all, the reform of state governance, which was quite invigorated during the previous coalition of government. Today, the Riigikogu has been able to set up a problem committee on state reform, but the plans of the current government coalition in this area are incomprehensible to us or we do not have any information about them. As a result, we have four questions, above all, about the reform of government and the government's action plan. Who in the government is responsible for carrying out reforms? Is and how the Government of the Republic intends to reduce the number of state-paid workers, which would offset the changes caused by the reduction in the number of taxpayers and the ageing population? What activities does the Government intend to continue in implementing the proposals resulting from the audit of government governance completed last year (merging government agencies, delegating tasks to the private sector, cutting red tape, consolidating support services, etc.)? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U175	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U176	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs, first of all, thank you for your questioning! As the representative of the heirs said, even 22 members of the Riigikogu have taken an interest in this topic. I'm going to read out the question of the total of four questions, and then the answer. The first question: 'What is the Government of the Republic's plan of action to reform government? ' I think that once again there is a good opportunity to share information (also when dealing with the previous inquiry, it became clear that there is not enough information) and to listen to the opinions of the members of the Riigikogu, because during the negotiations this possibility is. But now I'm gonna answer it. The Government of the Republic has agreed to reform the state and this is also stated in the Government's Action Programme. I assure you that the reform of the state is necessary for Estonia, as citizens expect more and more of the state. However, the working age population is declining and therefore the resources needed to meet these expectations will be reduced. The Government of the Republic has drawn up a state reform plan covering the period from January 2017 to March 2019 in order to understand the content of the state reform and to fix the activities to be carried out within it. In this action plan, we have formulated the basic principles of the implementation and governance of state reform and the objectives of the reform. The National Reform Plan will be available to all once approved in the Cabinet. The Government of the Republic considers that the implementation of state reform requires a broad-based social agreement; the content of the reform should be fully defined at parliamentary level. The Government of the Republic will take important steps to reform the country over the next two years. Restructuring needs to be carried out at both local and central levels. Furthermore, it is important to develop democracy and inclusion and reduce bureaucracy. The Riigikogu certainly has a very important role to play in the implementation and shaping of state reform. I am pleased that Parliament has set up a s. A decision of 14 February to develop developments in the reform of the state of the problem committee. The government hopes to cooperate effectively with the Commission. It is possible for Parliament to agree on the definition of the concept of state reform and the main content components. Only the honourable Riigikogu can play a leading role in dealing with the issues of democracy and the inclusion of the people, as these are broader issues than those organised by the executive power. According to the Government of the Republic, the content of the state reform is the audit and reorganisation of the public authority organisation, together with the revision and correction of the functions, functions and practices of the public authority and the mechanism of action. The Government of the Republic sees balance, efficiency and certainly openness as fundamental principles. The state must seek regionally balanced development and a reasonable balance between central and local authorities in the performance of its tasks. The state must strive for more effective governance, less bureaucracy and duplication between authorities. Public authority must promote the development of democracy and be guided by the principle of subsidiarity. The State Reform Plan of the Government of the Republic contains a number of important activities, but as a matter of focus for the next two years, we have agreed on the preparation of administrative reform, the cessation of the activities of rural governments, the removal of the appropriate state institutions from the capital, the concept of state buildings and the development of public services, the modernisation of government and administrative arrangements and the transition to activity-based budgeting. The Government of the Republic will certainly continue other activities in progress with a high impact, such as the organisation of the school network, the reduction of red tape between businesses and the public sector, as well as the reduction of red tape within the public sector. The second question: 'Who is responsible for carrying out reforms in the Government of the Republic? ' The Prime Minister and the Minister of State Administration play a central role in shaping and implementing state reform at the level of the Government of the Republic, and, more generally, the entire Cabinet of Government. The Government of the Republic plans to discuss the progress of state reform in its Cabinet meetings. The government is ready to cooperate fully with the Riigikogu and the Committee on Problems in the Development of State Reform in the Riigikogu. Under the direction of the Minister of State Administration, a National Reform Coordination Board will be set up, with representatives from all ministries becoming members. The implementation of state reform at the level of the Government of the Republic requires the cooperation of all ministers in a large picture, as sectoral ministers are responsible for sectoral reforms. I have personally met several interest groups who are closely monitoring and thinking about the implementation of the state reform. I welcome here the Radar of the State Reform, whose leaders I have promised to continue the meetings, to discuss their proposals and to fully support the implementation of the state reform as a government priority. The third question: 'Do and how does the Government of the Republic intend to reduce the number of public earners, which would offset the changes caused by the reduction in the number of taxpayers and the ageing population? 'The Government of the Republic has put the organisation and development of needs-based public services at the heart of the implementation of state reform. The Government of the Republic is seeking to reduce bureaucracy, eliminate duplication, reduce the cost of state governance, sustainability and transparency. In implementing the reform of the state, we will be guided by specific objectives and the need for substance. The organisation of public services and the simplification of internal processes in public authorities will undoubtedly lead to a reduction in the number of employees on public pay. The Government of the Republic does not consider it appropriate to set a numerical target for the reduction in the number of state salaries. It is important to consider the need. For example, due to the general security situation, it is necessary to strengthen the Estonian External Action Service and to hire more diplomats to embassies, the rapid response capacity of the Police and Border Guard Board must be strengthened and the regional capacity of the police improved. The reduction in the number of public earners can take place primarily through the simplification of bureaucracy and the increased use of modern technological tools. The abandonment of unnecessary activities, one of the good examples of which is the closure of rural governments, and the transfer of tasks requiring implementation to either municipalities or public authorities, is also in place. Due to the closure of rural governments, the number of employees in public service may fall by up to 200. The number of these employees will also decrease as a result of administrative reform, as the management of local authorities will become more efficient, but more substantial and certainly more specialised. Question 4: "Which activities does the Government intend to continue with the implementation of the proposals from the audit of government governance completed last year (pooling of government agencies, delegation of tasks to the private sector, reduction of red tape, consolidation of support services, etc.)? 'The Government of the Republic will continue with most of the unfinished initiatives resulting from the audit of government by the previous government. Most important activities have been fixed by the Government of the Republic in the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, as well as in the State Reform Plan. I would point out from concrete examples that an analysis of the transport sector is ongoing, an analysis of the optimisation of agricultural institutions, a combination of support functions in the joint ministerial building, an analysis of the optimisation of national laboratories, the organisation of career services, the organisation of the museum network, the zero bureaucracy project, consolidation of support services, the preparation of the delegation of tasks and the delegation of road traffic accidents. These are some examples. Thank you for your questioning. I will certainly answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U177	And now they're coming. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U178	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! My question is general. As Prime Minister, what kind of culture of government do you think should move forward? One of your main keywords was 'openness', which means that the role of communities is increasing as a result of administrative reform and that people want to live in the country must contribute somehow. The abolition of rural governments also shows that the management system is operating a little too closely - from top to bottom. How do you generally see your input in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U179	Thank you for your question. I think that more and more of these are already playing a role in many ways by non-governmental organisations, I mean NGOs, civil society organisations, etc. This is certainly part of open governance. We listen to the views of civil society organisations on, for example, planning processes, various changes in economics and tax policy, we listen to the views of umbrella organisations. I will give one example of the implementation of the administrative reform, even as part of this same state reform. There was a serious discussion about whether or not to form one rural municipality in South-East Estonia, I mean the rural municipality of Setomaa. There was the best option (not the only one, but, in my opinion, the best option) to ask the citizens of the four municipalities whether or not they wanted to take possession of Setomaa. The survey showed that it was wanted. The Cabinet has discussed the principle of a public initiative that could be taken forward. This is actually an opportunity for residents of local governments when we talk about the Local Government Organisation Act. So, on the one hand, openness, on the other hand, definitely inclusion. These are the keywords that we all want to note. I also pointed out zero bureaucracy or a reduction in bureaucracy. I think that any step in the direction with which we are able to reduce red tape and make matters more operational, limited to the requirement for data to be provided once, will contribute to sound and open governance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U180	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I think that a prominent part of a reasonable state reform would be for fools to fail. You had to wait a long time for your call today, because the Auditor General responded to an inquiry into the removal of the National Defence Academy. There were many questions and there were very clear views. A very clear critical assessment of the working group of officials was also published in the press today, which was entitled even so that moving to the Academy of Internal Defence is expensive and dangerous. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U182	Thank you. I, too, listened to the answers of the Auditor General today. This debate, I think, brings more and more clarity to the house. You referred to these audits or final reports, which are very strongly linked to the state budget and security risks. The subject of learning quality was repeatedly covered by today's inquiry. In fact, these are all such topics that when the topic of moving to the office of the National Defence Academy comes into the office, the members of the cabinet must seriously consider. What's my point of view? My view is that the state can deal with those processes that are within its reach. The state cannot afford to lose its quality of learning. Yes, the coalition has said that taking the National Defence Academy to Ida-Viru County in Narva is important. The question is whether we choose to take Narva or to take it in a different direction, which the Academy of Internal Defence itself has advocated, and which means wider cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board and the development of a stronger internship base. I do not think that what the local community thinks is of minor importance either. For example, people believe that there must be a proper swimming pool in Narva. I think you can look at these things in that light. I will give my personal opinion when serious discussions have been held in the office on the Academy of Home Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U183	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U184	Thank you. Prime Minister! When we dealt with the issues of state reform in the previous coalition, a working group was also working on the 'vision', so we set targets for what Estonia could be like in 30 years' time. Is the current coalition engaged in such activities? Do you not only make specific plans but also make long-term vision documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U185	I do not think that the reform of the state can certainly be done in the sense that it will change in a week, a year or five. We need to make a much longer-term vision, including on state reform. I think one very strong position of the coalition is that a good quality of life should not be possible only in Tallinn or Tartu. Certainly, the reform of the state must be much more open. We are going more and more to digital services every day, and we hope that this will not only happen in Estonia, but will happen as we do elsewhere in the European Union. But I think one aspect of the state reform must also be how we see the country's position in the county centres. I have given an example that we have decided in the government office that 1000 jobs could be moved from the capital to the county centers. I think that's right. This has been criticised for arguing that there is not enough qualified staff in these places. I'm completely different, I think there's enough qualified personnel. We cannot overcome or shift from demographic and demographic issues to state reform. I think they must also be on the table in terms of vision. So the answer is yes: we will certainly consider a longer perspective or view than five, ten or fifteen years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U186	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Two decisions were noted. Firstly, the so-called "closure" of rural governments was brought closer in time, i.e. it was speeded up. This was immediately followed by a quick decision on the termination of employment contracts with rural parents. What's behind this rush? In my opinion, the deadlines were even ambitious enough, i.e. short enough. But more importantly, I do not think that it is clear how this whole transition is taking place and what the institutions are going to do with these tasks, nor is it clear that the role of the local government associations will be in resolving possible issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U188	Thank you. A very important question. If you ask what this change is due to, then I can say that the Minister for Public Administration has brought an overview of this issue to the office and the cabinet's position was that we can make these decisions earlier as a result of the administrative reform. This was also the reason why we believe that the functions of rural governments can be transferred from 1 January 2018, i.e. the rural governments will close on 1 January 2018. You rightly pointed out that the municipal associations are subject to the obligation to provide a number of services. There are also quite a number of examples that the services will be provided by the local authorities themselves. The objective of the administrative reform, in the view of both the previous government and the current government, has been one: to create stronger municipalities that can offer more services and are more capable. True, we have added budgetary resources. I would say that we have boldly handed over functions to the municipalities. That was the reason: on the one hand, the end of the administrative reform on 15 October and, on the other hand, the fact that we see no reason to keep one state institution in operation when it no longer has functions directly, because they are largely distributed between local authorities and public authorities. For example, the municipal authorities will undertake civil status operations, the public transport network will be organised either by the local government or by the local government association. I think that the move towards a more effective country encouraged it to move six months forward when the alternative was discussed. These were the main arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U189	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U190	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! You used beautiful principles such as openness, the growth of democracy and the reduction of bureaucracy in your responses to state governance, which are all absolutely right things. Now you've been Prime Minister for over a hundred days. Does your role as Prime Minister today give you enough levers and opportunities in legal terms to apply all these beautiful principles, or should the Prime Minister's role in lawmaking be changed in some form?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U191	Thank you. I understand where this question was addressed. But it is right to initiate this debate, because the question is not who is the Prime Minister today or tomorrow, but the question is whether any additional opportunities or competences must be given to this post by law, if these opportunities are somehow limited. Those who have been members of the Government of the Republic know that the work of the Government is based on consensus. Let us say that recent governments have not taken advantage of the opportunity to vote in government meetings. One experienced member of the Riigikogu has observed that this was still the case in the early 1990s. I think it's right to seek consensus. We also see this practice in the European Council. The government is working if the partners, on the one hand, in the political sense and on the other, in the sense of the members of the government, want to make decisions. There is also the possibility that we will keep prolonging, prolonging and prolonging the discussions, but we will not take decisions. Another very important question is whether there is trust in the government office or between political parties. Will the Prime Minister be given more power so that he can take more influential decisions as a single person? I don't really see that need today. Then we would move to another extreme of the principle of consensus government, and I do not think it is right. Are there some places where we can be more specific? They should be discussed very seriously. But is there a screaming need that the Prime Minister's word force or his hammer strike should be even more powerful or stronger? Then we would tilt the system very strongly towards this one position. The principle of Estonia has been coalition governments and I think it has always been very right in terms of balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U192	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U193	Thank you! Good Prime Minister! I'm coming to the liquidation of the county government. I am a little sceptical about whether local authorities are ready to take over these many functions at the beginning of next year. The election's on October 15th, and in November, the councils might meet. As new municipalities emerge, it may take some time to start working together and even to formalise the work. But before rural governments are shut down, several bodies must be set up in local governments and a large number of people must be recruited to perform these functions. I'm just afraid I can't handle it between the election and Christmas. Could you still consider that if the time is short, I hope this will happen in a few municipalities, then there will be an opportunity to move the deadline a little bit, because otherwise there will be a lot of confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U194	Thank you. First of all, I don't really know if that was the question of fear. No, I don't have that fear. Municipalities are professional. Let's face it, they're getting a lot smaller. Yes, I understand your approach to the subject: if there are new municipalities, because there are two or three existing municipalities (maybe even more), then on the one hand, time is needed to settle the situation and, let's say, to organise the work. On the other hand, I think that when these decisions are made at the level of the government and the Riigikogu, it is quite well known what the local government is and what the tasks of the state are. This signal must be given as soon as possible before the elections. Certainly, the new people who are elected to councils and who form city or rural municipality governments must take this into account. I do not know whether the question was whether an extension of the deadline for the closure of rural governments could be considered. I think that serious consideration could be given to whether it falls within the remit of the Ministry of Finance, to the Minister of Public Administration, or, if coordinators are appointed, to the need for four or fifteen. This discussion could be held, I fully understand the concerns that you have raised. But when it comes to the fact that the machinery of rural governments could continue to work for another six months, let us be honest, there is, to a certain extent, a question of motivation. A clear signal has been given that rural governments will disappear on 31 December 2017 and their functions will have to be taken over by municipalities, public authorities or local government associations. But the discussion about this transition period, if there may be some need to help to make the system work, and to provide an elbow feeling, I think, is worth keeping.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U195	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U196	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The reform of state governance, as well as the administrative reform, will certainly lead to a number of national defence and internal security issues. What are the positions of the current government here, and have they been under discussion? This is where we should talk about requisitions and stuff like that. Have they been under discussion at this stage?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U197	Thank you. I'll start with internal security. I also pointed out in my reply that these issues are on the table at the coalition. We have said that we want to improve the police's rapid response capability. This means that people need to be hired at the Police and Border Guard Board. We have said that regional police must be strengthened, i.e. more regional police are needed. When we talk about security, I think a very big change will take place this spring when Tapale comes to the circuit of 1200 ally soldiers. Whether this will have any impact on the administrative reform as a whole is questionable, but in this county and municipality there is certainly a need to be prepared to accept them. Speaking of internal security, I would mention that, due to administrative reform, both the government and the Riigikogu will have to consider the possibilities of strengthening the area of rescue next year. So there are some changes to internal security.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U198	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U199	Thank you. Prime Minister! Administrative reform and state reform are interlinked. The current situation is largely the legacy of the previous government coalition, from which the current government must proceed. It would take an awful long time to deal with this whole thing, but I have a specific question about the counties and your personal opinion. The counties are the oldest administrative units that have operated in Estonia. The government has decided that county governments, as such, will cease to operate as state agencies. How do you see the county in Estonia's future? I stress: county. Whether it is a future historical-cultural unit, such as the parish, or it is a strong administrative regional-territorial management unit, as it was some time ago as a county authority. I understand that, as a result of these reforms, neither this municipality nor the county will remain a state institution. I'm asking for your vision of the county in the long run.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U200	Thank you. You pointed out in the question that the county is an important part of cultural identity. I'm sure it's gonna stay there anyway. If your point was whether you could form county municipalities, then I say that one or almost one is expected to occur. If we're talking about Saaremaa, then really, Muhu and Ruhnu are out of it at the moment. The theoretical possibility is that Hiiumaa will also become a county municipality. However, if we are talking about an organisational or management approach, then the county's leadership will hopefully be taken over by the local government associations to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U201	Thank you. No further questions for the Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Inquiries do not wish to participate. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U202	Thank you to the Chairman and Prime Minister. It is worrying that it is not understood that the government perceives the whole picture. I think that was also motivated by the second question of the heirs. There is no way we can talk about state reform unless we have visionaries. The previous government, too, was accused so that the Prime Minister could play this visionary role, but we did not see it. I hope that the current government and the Prime Minister will be able to change their directions and plans. Yes, administrative reform is a very important part of the reform of the state, but we are still not talking about administrative reform, at least not in this house, as long as solutions have not come up with what the tasks and the revenue base are. Last week, Minister Korb tried to announce in the Committee on Trouble that Parliament's role is also expected to be meaningful in the process of state reform. But I didn't understand exactly what the role was. He did mention that Parliament could initiate precisely the issue of identifying the tasks of this country. At the same time, when considering the abolition of rural governments, administrative reform, state buildings and other such matters, some insights have been made on the subject. Unfortunately, Parliament has not participated in this, but has once again been a listener and a taker. We should understand very clearly the role and activities of local government and the tasks of public authorities, including ministries. There is nothing to do, and the third sector must be increasingly involved and these people should be given more opportunities in providing services. Now I am talking about the concept of state reform. The first meeting of the State Reform Problem Committee raised the question of whether or not we are dealing with it. I realized that we will not be taking it on for a while, because it is somehow overly difficult to set the starting points that we would like to set. Now from the administrative reform, or the current territorial reform. I think that in the coming years, the part of the reform of the state must also be the correction of administrative reform errors, whether or not dealing with 5 000 wrongs linked to the minimum population requirement. In the following question, we also draw attention to the possibility of self-determination of villages. Perhaps we need to understand that the reform is being made for people, we need to be more face-to-face and give them opportunities to say what they think are natural centres. But today, we do not want to accept this idea in any way. Maris Lauri partly opened up the issue of rural government issues. In the Committee on Problems, it has turned out that the necessity of public buildings has yet to be considered, are they even coming? just how they're gonna work. It is now very clear that, from 1 January, the buildings of rural governments will be emptied, with only a few people losing their current title as a county government employee and becoming the boss of a ministry or its subsidiary. But this idea of state houses that one official could offer a service to several institutions, probably... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U203	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U204	...it won't work. Last week it was mentioned that this would not even happen in two years. The problem is that there is no start of negotiations between institutions so that one or two people can offer services from several institutions. Moreover, information systems are not compatible; the data protection issue is still not fully open and discussed. The problem area we will be facing in the near future in terms of state reform is the organisation of public transport. It is becoming a 'two-tier system'. If public transport centres have not been formed on the basis of municipalities, the Road Administration will take over this work for a year and a half. This will create a small buffer for municipalities so that they can reorganize and make arrangements. However, no municipality is obliged to join any NGO or association that is being created. The question certainly arises: if there are two municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants next to a municipality with 11000 inhabitants, why should they stand for a common matter if their needs and values are quite different? There are a lot of questions. We probably need to start putting the legacy of the previous government within the framework of a normal pace of life. However, my call for the Prime Minister is still this: more of a visionary position, even in the debate workshops, which should be part of the state reform. Our needs in time will change, especially when we talk about a reduction in population. We need to find ways and methods to motivate people to live here, create jobs and raise children. There are a lot of value-based and vital issues here that we cannot move forward in an unsolved way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U205	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U206	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved to make a brief comment here by the thought of a good colleague, Külliki Hatter, concerning visionaryness and this side. During the previous coalition, it was quite clear who was doing what. The government and the Riigikogu dealt with the reform of government. This means that a working group had been set up at the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, one of which was also Külliki Kübarsepp. This working group dealt with a long view of how the Estonian state should look in 20 to 30 years' time. In my opinion, it was logical in this sense that the executive was engaged in the implementation and discussions of the promises resulting from the coalition agreement, and the Riigikogu looked long and far into the future, not just at the reign of one coalition. The members of the opposition were also involved, and this work was, in my opinion, substantive. However, as far as administrative reform and governance are concerned at all, my good colleague, Ants Laaneots, pointed out that if we lose the county governments, or so-called regional level, we should still not forget the regional level of governance of the Police and Border Guard Board, or police prefectures, or that courts or the Rescue Board have analogues here. I'm sure it's an option that shouldn't be wiped off the table right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U207	Members of the Riigikogu do not want to say anything else, nor does the Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U208	The next item is the enquiry by Urmas Kruuse, Terje Trei, Ants Laaneots, Igor Gräzin and Meelis Mälberg. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable colleagues! Looking at the hall, you might say we're almost giving out the Seven Brave Formats. Thank you to those who are still in the hall! But indeed, at the beginning of this year, we heard through the media that the Municipality of Jõgeva has proposed to the Council that certain land be auctioned. There is nothing strange about it if the municipality is able to sell lands and so improve its resources, it could be quite positive. But a great deal of concern is that among these countries is the land of the Estonian Plant Education Institute (ETKI). All those people who know the importance of plant breeding and agro-technological research in agriculture and rural areas will understand that if 10% of the Institute's land is sold, which may not be able to be replaced, it will certainly be deeply disturbing to do so. For this reason, certain members of the Reform Party Group have a question with the Minister for Rural Affairs, Tarmo Tammele. We ask him to explain for what purposes these 240 hectares of land are sold, a large part of which is used by ETKI for research. What action plans do the Ministry of Rural Affairs have with ETKI? What measures has the Ministry of Rural Affairs planned to take to enable ETKI to continue research in the same area in the same amount? Fourthly, we ask why the Ministry has not entered into negotiations with the local government to buy out the land in question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U210	The question is answered by Minister Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U211	President of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your questions. The first question: 'Please explain for what purposes are these 240 hectares of land sold, much of which is used for research by the Estonian Plant Production Institute? ' The Ministry of Rural Affairs does not have information on this because the local government is independent in its decisions and these decisions are made by the council. All I know is that they're selling this country for the purpose of getting funds for this year's investments. The second question: 'What action plans do the Ministry of Rural Affairs have with the Estonian Plant Education Institute? ' ETKI is the R &amp; D institution of the state, located within the area of government of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and in this form necessary for the development of the Ministry and, more generally, the Estonian agricultural sector. For the Ministry of Rural Affairs, therefore, it is important for ETKI to operate in a sustainable manner, which requires suitable land. In 2015, ETKI Research Council approved the development plan of the institution for the years 2015 to 2022 whose objectives the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the farmers who are members of the ETKI Research Council will make every effort to contribute. Applied agricultural research in agro-technology, plant protection, fertilisation, agro-meteorology and crop and quality formation, crop breeding and seed growing and conservation of genetic resources were identified as key objectives. This requires high-level and effective research. The Institute will focus on its strategic core activities. The collective is cohesive and creative, the research teams are of sufficient size. ETKI needs modern research infrastructure and the first steps have been taken in this direction, the design is underway and we should hopefully be able to start construction next year. Question 3: 'What measures has the Ministry of Rural Affairs planned to implement so that the Estonian Plant Production Institute could continue research in the same area on the same scale? ' The third and fourth questions essentially overlap, but no matter what, I answer like this. We have made an inquiry to the Jõgeva Vallavolikogu to enable the Ministry to acquire 118 hectares of land put up for sale in a decision-making manner. The Ministry is ready to negotiate with ETKI. We have also addressed the Ministry of the Environment to review the free state land in this region. I am convinced that the issue of land will be resolved. Question 4: "Why has the Ministry not entered into negotiations with the local government to buy out the land in question? " We have been negotiating with the local government, we have exchanged information by letter and telephone. I have met the chairman of the parish council and the mayor who has personally assured me that they will do everything they can to keep this land on ETKI. They have ordered the valuation of this property from a recognised real estate evaluator and the Ministry of Rural Affairs will continue to do so. We will present this price to the Government of the Republic, and I hope that we will get a positive response and that the land put on sale will in future be owned by ETKI, and that R &amp; D can continue in the region in its former capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U212	Questions for the Minister. Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It makes me a little cautious to have such a mild styling in the negotiations. I'm a little confused about one thing. The answer to the written question came from the Ministry of Rural Affairs that the purchase of land was not a priority, while the Minister of Finance wrote in reply that the purchase of land would be considered as an option. What is the specific position of the Minister for Rural Affairs in order to prevent this land from slipping out of its current use? I am convinced that finding a replacement land is not easy given the specificity of this work. It would be quite illogical to say that we will not consider buying it until it is clear what the replacement land is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U214	Thank you for your question. As of the moment, we're still considering buying out the land. Above all, we expect the Jõgeva Vallavoli Council to pay the price on which they agree to enter into negotiations. It is also the basis for me to go to the Government of the Republic and apply for funds. In any case, the aim is to get this land into the ownership of ETKI, and that is what I am working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U215	No further questions. Thank you, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm! I'm opening negotiations. Urmas Kruus, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U216	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! I dare to support the Minister for Rural Affairs on this issue, that the buy-out of this land is certainly an ETKI priority at the moment. This would also be quite an important signal for the local people, because in this region, in view of the long term, it is necessary that jobs are certainly preserved. The cacophonic objective of taking jobs out of the capital as if it were to become a farce if certain jobs from public authorities in these same regions were to be lost. I very much hope that I am ready to support the Minister for Rural Affairs on these issues, and I have spoken on this issue before, so that the local authorities really have the right to decide on their investments and to process the budget, as the local council decides. But I am also convinced that if the negotiations are to be proactive and vigorous, it will be possible to succeed on both sides. This means that the municipality gets a good price, and if the state looks at it, it makes sense, and both of them should be happy. It seems to me that the Minister for Rural Affairs is not always the easiest in the government to explain these issues to other cabinet members and, sometimes, to the Minister of Finance, precisely on the basis of the specifics of rural and agricultural affairs. In many cases, phrases can be heard, such as the present time in agriculture, so that plowing with horses is a natural occurrence. Today, in the high age of information technology and new approaches, research, including plant breeding, is extremely important to our region in order to obtain more productive and weather-proof varieties in the future, which in turn will also affect farmers' incomes. It would therefore be a pleasure for the two ministries to cooperate and for the answers we receive from the ministry to be clear. It's a good thing the Minister for Rural Affairs said today from this remote control that your first priority is to buy out the land, which we have taken into account in our discussions. I very much hope that this is the case, as the Minister has told us all. We're definitely gonna follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U217	There are no more requests for speech, nor does the Minister want to speak. We're out of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U218	Fifthly, there is an inquiry on the agenda, the authors of which are the members of the Riigikogu Külmiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Jüri Adams and Andres Ammas. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U219	Good Chairman! Good minister! I've counted before that I'm the only female envoy in the hall, and there are 11 male envoys besides me. Very interesting. On 7 February, we submitted to the Minister for Public Administration an inquiry into the right to self-determination of villages and discussed the situation in Järva- and Valgamaa. Such questions have also arisen in Pärnumaa, Tartu County and elsewhere. The subject of the inquiry is that villages have submitted appeals to local government councils to contribute to the administrative-territorial reform. The villages have expressed the wish of the residents not to go along with the disputes between the local government leaders and their agreements. In Järvamaa, people from Ambla and Käravete area collected signatures from 20 April to 10 May last year. A total of 459 people, or 22.3% of the rural municipalities, signed up and decided to express their wish to join in the direction of Tapa rural municipality. This is the parish of Ambla, where Tapa has been a part of all times. In Ambla, 42.8% of the population signed, 31.5% of the population in Käravate. In Sääsküla, signatures were also collected in support of the accession of Tapa rural municipality, where 30.9% of the population participated. Perhaps it can be concluded that these were not a few percent of the people's opinions, but were involved in quite a good activity. Ambla Vallavolikogu answered no to the village. On 15 August last year, at the meeting of Tapa Vallavolikogu, it was stated that since Ambla municipality had said no to the village turnaround, they did not foresee constructive cooperation with the neighbour. They themselves were ready to respond positively to the village turn. I would also like to say in advance that these same villages have not only turned to the councils, but they have also addressed the governor of the country, the regional commission, the administrative court and the Chancellor of Justice. In Valgamaa, there was an analogous case in the municipality of Puka, where several villages have also submitted addresses. The inhabitants of Soontaga village wish to join in the direction of Helme rural municipality, and the villages of Meegaste village, Otepää and Aakre district in the direction of Rõngu. It's been more complicated here. The Valga County Government declared the first decisions of the Municipality Council of Puka and Helme, which were favourable to the villages, void. Later adjustment meant the openness of Helme rural municipality and the power struggle of Puka rural municipality with a negative view to the villages. Soontaga village turned to the Chancellor of Justice for legal assessment. There have been developments in the meantime. Last weekend there was a public poll. I think that this was largely the result of this same inquiry, but also because the Municipality of Puka essentially separated itself from the circle of voluntary mergers, the government presented them with a proposal for compulsory accession, and the power is under pressure. On this basis, we expect a very clear position from the Minister on how the government can meet these villages. Do they have a chance to get involved in self-determination? I note only so much that, for example, the villages of Ambla rural municipality started talking in the administrative reform before the administrative reform law entered into force. It's made the situation legally a little confusing. We want to be clear through the Minister's mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U220	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U221	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your meaningful questioning. The question that you are dealing with in your inquiry is really very important, and it has caused a lot of emotions during the administrative reform. The two places you mention in your inquiry are not the only such places in Estonia, there are quite many such places, but unfortunately there is no good solution in this situation. The point is that an administrative reform law has been passed in this very Chamber, which significantly limits the activities of the Government of the Republic on this matter. This restriction is basically that the Government of the Republic can only connect villages to one or another rural municipality or city on the basis of the wishes of the residents in two cases. First, if there is a decision of two councils: the decision of the council of the municipality in which the villages are located at that moment and the decision of the municipality or city council with which the villages wish to join. There must be a positive decision by these two councils, which will allow both councils to confirm such a change. Such a change must be submitted to the Government of the Republic through the governor of the country. In another case, the movement of villages from one municipality to another is possible if 5 000 inhabitants are not met. Perhaps if there were to be a situation where, as a result of administrative reform, there would be 4930 inhabitants and a village next to it would like to join this municipality voluntarily, then the government would be able to connect this village to this rural municipality without the decision of the council. Unfortunately, the Administrative Reform Act does not provide for any other option. Yes, of course, the law has been in force before, and besides the administrative reform there is a law on the organisation of local government, which allows the government to deal with this issue. But the law doesn't come into force until after the election. Unfortunately, there's no other way to do it right now. Now I will go to the questions and answer what you specifically ask. The first question: 'According to § 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act, local people have the right to initiate local visits. Have these residents of Järva- and Valgamaa villages complied with existing legislation when taking initiatives? ' These are two separate cases. Paragraph 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act provides (I quote to be precise): '... the initiative is submitted as a draft to the Municipality or City Government, accompanied by a list of signatories. " At this point, we are talking about a bill. This means that a draft may be submitted, but this does not mean that the question cannot be dealt with by the Council even if it has not been submitted in accordance with the procedure. But the answer is that the application in Ambla municipality had been submitted correctly according to the law, it was processed by the county governor, it was verified that the residents who signed it live at these addresses, the municipality government sent the letter and the municipality council dealt with this bill. This procedure has not been carried out in the City of Puka Vallavoli, but this issue was dealt with at the council meeting and a positive result was achieved there. Question 2: "What is your recommendation to the people of Järvamaa villages who have expressed their wish to join the municipality of Tapa? What are their legal possibilities for realising their desire? " In my introduction, I already mentioned these two options. Unfortunately, neither of these options can be implemented now, as the neighbouring municipality, or the municipality of Tapa, does not need more residents in order to meet the criterion (there are already over 5 000 inhabitants) and the Ambla Vallavolikogu does not want to transfer villages. I recommend that the residents wait for the elections and hope not to hope, but to act to ensure that the council will be their representative, their word will be heard, and the council will make new decisions after the elections and allow the villages to change their administrative territorial affiliation. The third question: 'The municipality of Puka is in a deep management crisis, refusing to join the various neighbouring municipalities. What is your recommendation to the residents of the villages of the municipality of Puka? Could the village proposal be the most rational solution in this situation? " I would not regard the situation in the area of Luka as a deep management crisis. Puka Vallavolikogu agreed to s. 17 February, the council decided to open negotiations on the transfer of villages of Aakre district to Rõngu rural municipality and proposed to Helme rural municipality the transfer of the village with Soontaga. Puka Vallavolikogu also decided to conduct a survey of residents in these villages no later than 14 March. It just happened. Just as the questioner mentioned, it's been a thing. I would say that the Puka Vallavolikogu takes a very reasonable view of the matter and it is clear that the council has a desire to turn the villages of the Aakre district to Rõngu rural municipality, or the merging Helme rural municipality. Question 4: "What position does the Government of the Republic take on applications for the right to self-determination of villages? Will the government meet the villagers? ' During the administrative reform, the government looks at the administrative reform units, i.e. the municipalities and cities as a whole. If one or the other municipality is merged or merged in one direction or another, the matter shall be dealt with in its entirety. The changes that take place on the Estonian map are quite large and effective. These effects need to be addressed quite long after the administrative reform. At present, unfortunately, the legislator, on a proposal from the government, has not provided any other means to enable the villagers to change their village ownership in one way or another. The government's options are clearly limited and, unfortunately, there are no other ways of resolving the situation. I guess all the questions are over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U222	Additional questions to the Minister. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U223	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have a very big question now. In the introductory part, you put forward two arguments that limit the government's response to villages. One was that, to say briefly, that if the municipality already has 5,000 inhabitants, new villages could no longer be added to it. Which section of the Administrative Reform Act does this requirement or recommendation come from? I was shocked to read this argument from the Ministry's response to the address of the villages of Vara municipality, but I can't find what has been referred to anywhere. For example, § 3, which refers to a minimum criterion, does not say that the number of inhabitants must not exceed 5000.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U224	Thank you for your question. I need to get a little into the papers. I can't answer you on the basis of the materials that have been submitted at the moment. But surely this point exists in the law and... I'm sorry, I can even see some provisions! In my documents there is a reference to § 3 of the Administrative Reform Act, which talks about at least 5 000 inhabitants or 5 000 residents' criteria. Unfortunately, I can't name more specific paragraphs for you at the moment, but if you are not satisfied with my answer, then I will certainly clarify it and send you the exhaustive answer that the lawyers have given.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U225	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U226	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about the municipality of Räpina and Meremäe and the whole area. In Meremäe rural municipality, 27 villages have wished to join Vastseliina rural municipality and the council has agreed to do so. On the contrary, there are four or five villages that want to separate, but the council has not given them their consent. So how do these questions work out over there? It seems that the Setomaa municipality doesn't get 5,000 inhabitants together anyway. How does this thing even work out in the area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U227	Thank you for your question. As regards the 5000 inhabitants, the municipality of Setomaa is not required to fulfil the criterion of 5000 inhabitants. The law contains an exception concerning the rural municipality of Setomaa, about 3,500 people. As far as these two situations are concerned, I am aware of both. In both cases, villages want to join the neighbouring municipality, in one place the existing municipality does not want to let them go, and in another place this other municipality is not ready to receive new villages. But this is a situation where, unfortunately, the government does not have the opportunity to decide or change the situation in any way. Both councils must agree, only then can the administrative-territorial change be confirmed, i.e. villages can be moved from one municipality to another. If all four councils do not give their consent, two in one place and two in another, there will be no change, and three parishes of Mikitamäe, Meremäe and Värska will be in the same shape as they are now. If there are any changes, or one or more of the municipal councils makes a final decision, or they decide in pairs that villages can cross over, then the government must confirm it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U228	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, One of the great distractions in this whole thing is those polls that have no meaning whatsoever. The implementing provisions of the Administrative Reform Act say that in those municipalities which are subject to a compulsory government decision, this survey must be carried out. These surveys should take place on 23 and 24 April, or they will be coming soon. My question is about the municipality of Puka, where a survey was just held. A part of the villages decided to join in the direction of Rõngu rural municipality, while one village decided to join in the direction of Helme. They have made their own decisions and the forced merger of the municipality of Puka towards Otepää means only the addition of the rest of the municipality. This municipality is essentially divided into three areas. On which territory will a survey be held on 23 and 24 April? Is it only in the part that joins in the Otepää direction, or in the whole territory of the municipality, and if in the whole territory of the municipality, what is the meaning of the survey that has just taken place, where it was decided to join in the Ring and Helme direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U230	Thank you for your question. Indeed, these polls are a great concern or emotionally very difficult issue. I myself have publicly criticised this questioning plan and the processing of the results of the polls. The survey will always have an informative role to play. People are often confused because if the people have not been given the opportunity to decide why they should ask for an opinion. We've been discussing this with you guys for a long time. As far as the proposals on the transfer of villages are concerned, they must have been made to the Government of the Republic through the county governor by 15 April, i.e. according to the law, six months before the elections, the territory of the future rural municipality must be definitively confirmed. If one or the other village is decided to hand over to one or another rural municipality, the question, which is already taking place after that final decision, will take place only in the territory that joins the municipality of Otepää. By that date, the question must be clear, because the last point for the delivery of villages is April 15th.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U231	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U232	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The Free Party Group submitted a draft to the Riigikogu procedure some time ago in order to give the Government of the Republic more decision-making powers and hopefully also the courage to make decisions. By responding to their lack of understanding, you hinted that you did not have the respective rights and powers. We very much want to give you more of these powers. Have you had time to examine the content of this bill? Have you, at least as a person, been able to form a position on this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U233	Thank you for your question. Are we talking about a bill that will be in the process tomorrow and will talk about simplification? [[Interjection.]] It's about handing over villages. I'm so sorry, but I haven't gotten to know it yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U234	There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U235	Good Chairman! Good minister! The municipalities in question are united by the fact that the leaders of both rural municipalities are members of the Reform Party and in some way pass on the arrogance expressed by the leading party of the previous coalition with the design and implementation of the administrative reform. Since I'm from Valgamaa and my roots are in the Puka parish, I know a little bit more about the background. The head of the municipality of Puka has been in office for 23 years in a row. In the last year, he's been taken down and put in again. Last week, he was convicted in court for for forgery and embezzlement of documents. The consequence is that the municipality is lagging behind in the development of neighbouring municipalities. No major investments have been made, people are not able to obtain high-quality water, because when it comes to the town of Puka, it has to be said that there is no infrastructure and sewerage. This has caused frustration in the population and they no longer have faith in the municipality. Over the past two years, the power struggle has become so fierce that even once in the quarter, a new chairman of the council and a new governor of the parish have been elected. The only positive thing about this is the response from Innove is that it is now possible to build a new school house because the old schoolhouse has been depreciated. There hasn't been any repairs since the walls were painted and the windows changed 15 years ago, the house isn't heated, the kids are cold. I myself remember the county basketball competitions that took place in 1996, when the kringle could freeze while waiting for the game. But it's still there. When neighboring municipalities visited investment sites, they were never allowed to go to kindergarten because they would have had a pretty terrible picture. I call on the government to come to the people and ask Parliament for special measures to do so. The Free Party has taken the initiative. We have tabled an amendment to cancel the so-called interlocutor between the councils and to take decisions directly on the basis of the initiative or the outcome of the survey. I do not want to make a distinction between initiative and questioning, because both are a very serious test for people, where they have to show their interests clearly. That is why I take my hat off in front of the people of both the municipality of Puka and Ambla and I give them a huge credit. We met with activists from the villages of Ambla municipality almost a month and a half ago. These are really very nice and active people, not from the interest of a few people, but from the group, from home to home and from people who once again are a phenomenon. People have worked hard, they have turned to the Chancellor of Justice, the administrative court, regional committees and county elders. Everyone says they very much accept their proposals and are in favour of them, but there are no councils for some reason. Ambla people have said... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U236	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U237	... that they would be fully prepared to participate in the new municipality of Järva if there were one county municipality of Järva. Right now, it's a half-bodied gut. It was up to them whether their attraction center was Paide or Killa. Killing is only 18 kilometers away, their kindergartens, schools, jobs, and a commercial network are all there, just a quarter hour's drive away. In their view, it is completely incomprehensible why they are being pushed towards this region, which is farther away and where there are no natural movements of their day-to-day movements. I really call on the government to think about people, because administrative reform is not being made for those in power, but for those people who have to live every day with the results of this reform and, well, for several decades. We must not take away their faith in our state and our local authority; rather, we must create a source of motivation. To do so, we need to take their wishes into account. I am not afraid that the so-called fools will get to the government with proposals, because the community itself will eliminate these proposals. People who undertake and collect signatures and actively participate in interviews must be taken into account and recognised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U238	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U239	Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On this basis, as far as I know the history and geography of Estonia, it seems to me that both the examples given in this inquiry, both Ambla and Puka, speak very clearly of one thing. That these villages and these people really want to return to their historic home. There's nothing supernatural about it. Killa was a member of Ambla Parish in its time and there is such a historical sense of belonging. People are not moving towards Paide and are not going towards Järva-Jaani; they are not going to move within the long guts that this municipality is now essentially beginning to represent, reaching more or less from the border of the municipality of Tapa to Põltsamaa. What they call Järva's parish is actually a relic-Järva. It's all that's left of Türi and Paide, and it's an unnatural formation. It would have been logical to use either the map of the parishes or indeed the map of the counties. The booth is exactly the same. The villages that wish to join the Ring have been part of Rõngu parish. The village of Meegaste has been part of Otepää and Soonta, which wishes to join Tõrva or, rather, Helme, which is its historical name, has a sense of belonging to it. That is where these problems arise, but they have not been taken into account in the reform. In order to carry out this reform here you cannot blame Mikhail Korb; it is still the case of the previous government that the stupidest path was chosen, putting pressure on the municipalities with the 5000 criteria and imposing on them this way unnatural mergers. The village problem is completely out of the question. However, I also ask the current government what it is when the minister comes before us and says that the problem is, but there is nothing we can do, because the law is such or similar, and the previous government adopted it. Yeah, it takes two councils to make a positive decision. There are hardly any positive decisions. You spoke about the 5,000 criteria for the transfer of villages. To be honest, I didn't understand it or where it came from. Excuse me, these villages are not serfs we give from one municipality to another so that someone can meet the 5,000 criteria! This raises the question of why this reform has been undertaken. Is this reform for humans, or is it for this strange number of magic, so that somewhere it can still be filled with 5,000? 5000 inhabitants are a sacred grail, which seems to me to be the key word for this administrative reform. Nobody needs this kind of administrative reform. I hope that the Minister will take the Free Party initiatives more seriously. Well, I guess they're coming up here all the time. You're right that this problem doesn't just concern Ambla or Puka. We have a problem with Sauga rural municipality, we have a problem with Vara rural municipality in line. We come to this hall with them in the form of inquiries and draft laws. If the new government really wants to turn this reform towards people instead of number magic, please support these initiatives, including what really gives the government the power to make these decisions if villages want to move from one municipality to another. You cannot reject the natural responsibility of the government in these matters on the hands of quite helpless local governments, who make decisions simply on the basis of whether or not they receive merger support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U240	Members of the Riigikogu have no more wishes for words. Would the Minister like a word? No, I don't. I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U241	The next question is presented by Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsepp, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm and Andres Herkel. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U242	Honorable Chairman! Respectable members of the Riigikogu. Indeed, this inquiry by the members of the Free Party Group examines why the country's heritage protection policy in real estate investments is not being followed, at least in the opinion of the heirs. We have brought out some specific objects here: the Liberty Manor Rocca al Mares, the Patarei Fortress Buildings, also Porkuni Manor in Virumaa. But, above all, we are interested in the Minister's answer to the question of what are the fundamental views of Riigi Kinnisvara AS (RKAS) that should be taken up with the property on the account of cultural heritage. How to link different things: the interest of the owner, the preservation of the cultural heritage and the environmental and sustainability of its preservation? As owner of real estate, the state has the opportunity to be responsible and care about cultural heritage. In practice, this means that instead of building a new building, a heritage-protected building will be restored. Using the existing building instead of building a new building would, in our opinion, be sustainable behaviour. However, this quite natural obligation is quite often ignored by such a simple reason that compliance with heritage protection requirements means at least a third more expensive construction activities, maybe not all the space can be used effectively in old buildings, etc. Our aim is to change the existing one-sided and inflexible national cultural heritage property policy, and this is also caused by a question of understanding. Another fact, ladies and gentlemen, that you understand that our concern is justified. There are currently sixteen sites in the RKAS development portfolio or objects located in the heritage conservation area. Ten out of these sixteen are in bad shape, two in satisfactory condition, and only one in good condition. We hope to have full answers to all our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U243	The question is answered by Mikhail Korb, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U244	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. I must say that the question you raised is very important. The preservation of historical values is the primary task of the state, for which good public figures stand and people also contribute very much to the development and preservation of our monuments and cultural values. But above all, the Minister of Culture is responsible for the preservation of cultural heritage in the Republic of Estonia. This is what I want to stress right now, that it is his responsibility that, in general, heritage conservation objects and heritage conservation activities are all in general. The Minister of State Administration is shaping the state's real estate policy. In 2007, the State's strategy for real estate activities was confirmed, which states that the preservation of heritage is not directly an objective of the State's property policy, but is an obligation that each owner, including the RKAS, must fulfil among other obligations. This means that in the first instance, the RKAS must behave prudently with its assets and comply with all the requirements imposed by the state on it by law or legislation as owner of the property, but it does not design or organise a heritage defence policy in Estonia. I will now move on from the introduction to specific answers. I will go through the questions one by one, starting with the first: 'The RKAS development portfolio has 16 (12 addresses; the entire portfolio has 58 addresses) sites or objects in the heritage reserve, 10 of which are in bad, 2 satisfactory and only 1 in good condition. Does the RKAS have an object-based analysis of sites that are classified as cultural heritage in the RKAS development portfolio? Does and to what extent the analysis take into account the added value of heritage conservation for the environment and the increase in cultural awareness, or is the assessment based solely on the principle of sustainability? ' I must, unfortunately, call into question the figures given in the inquiry. Currently, there are nearly 1500 buildings in the RKAS portfolio, 101 of which have a heritage value. 73 buildings are at the disposal of RKAS customers, they are in good condition and heritage value has so far been well maintained. Nine buildings in the RKAS development portfolio are those for which a user needs to be sought and which require investment. 19 buildings are those that the state does not need to perform its own functions and the RKAS plans to sell them. A separate analysis of heritage has not been carried out and the added value of the environment has not been assessed. No such study has been carried out. But surely every building or object with its heritage features has been dealt with in accordance with the law, i.e. in the course of reconstruction, all necessary coordination has been undertaken. All activities aimed at maintaining or maintaining this building have been carried out in accordance with the rules of heritage conservation. I can assure you that the condition of all the objects currently in use is good and it is difficult to highlight any particular problem. When it comes to the nine buildings owned by the RKAS and which require investment, a recovery plan has been drawn up and a project has been carried out, which also takes account of the historical conditions. These objects will be restored according to the rules of the ancientists and the value of these buildings will certainly be taken into account. These 19 buildings, for which the state has not found a function, are the desire to auction, sell, transfer, and so find them a new user. A good example here is the castle of Keila-Joa, which was expropriated in its time and has now been restored. It's a very beautiful object under heritage protection that everyone can enjoy right now. I go to the following question: 'Do you consider it justified to consider the current approach of the RKAS to preservation of cultural heritage (the National Heritage Board and the State Real Estate Management Summary Report 2013 to 2014 in October 2015) where the selection of the RKAS with regard to preservation of cultural heritage has been absolute, whether the heritage conservation objectives of the selected object are met to the maximum extent or not? Why is it still not possible to implement a meaningful and flexible investment policy that preserves cultural heritage, which respects the common interest and rationality of heritage protection and the contracting authority, and seeks and applies flexible opportunities? ' My experience and contacts with the special conditions of heritage protection and the requirements of heritage protection are such that I do not see any flexibility here. Heritage protection is always very specific and straightforward in its requirements. If the object is taken into heritage protection, it will not be possible to restore the object without the coordination of heritage protection and the fulfilment of these requirements. Regardless of whether it is a private investor or whether it invests in the state, heritage protection conditions must always be met and it is not possible to introduce an object in the event of non-compliance, and infringements can be severely punished. I don't think there's any chance of creative activity here. The road map is the National Heritage Board, whose competence has no reason to doubt for a second. The third question: "Is the reference made by the RKAS to the fact that compliance with the heritage protection requirements increases the construction cost by an estimated third, which has also been based on the construction activities of the RKAS, is not too arbitrary and outdated, and is detrimental to the state as a owner, because it already precludes the intention to trade less than the construction price of the RKAS in the beginning? ' I think the answer to that question is very simple. If an item with a heritage protection value is decided to be used, this price cannot be traded down or changed because the price is determined by a public procurement. All construction procurements shall be public and the contractor shall be selected by auction. Whoever has the competence to carry out the prescribed reconstruction works and who offers the cheapest price will certainly become the maker of the works and will also set the price. It is therefore very difficult to link flexibility and heritage protection conditions. When it comes to assessing an object under heritage protection, these objects are very often financially burdensome, as they require additional activities that are very often not useful in terms of the functionality of the building. But it is clearly a question of choice. If an object under heritage protection is decided to be used, unfortunately, there are no other options. But once again, this cannot be some kind of flexible option or decision-making, because everything essentially decides on an auction. Question 4: "To what was the national decision to abandon Porkuni Manor based? Porkuni Manor and the school building built in 1955 were abandoned and a new school building was built 400 m away in 2011. This led to a situation where 5500 m2 of heritage-protected real estate (with 67 ha of land) is sold for the seventh year at the price of Tallinn's apartment. What analyses were the basis for such a decision to destroy cultural heritage? ' For a particular object, a clear choice had to be made whether to build a new building or to use an existing one. The existing building (5500 m2) was clearly too large for the school. This school was not used in full, nor was it reasonable to maintain it as such. As far as the sale price is concerned, it will be re-established by auction. Since the costs associated with the reconstruction of this building are so great, no one dares to take them on. The next question: 'What is the next action plan with the Liberty Manor complex, which was separated from the development of the open-air museum, which was given up for the development of the RKAS portfolio and which was now abandoned by the President's Office as the President's residence? ' Indeed, only a little while ago, the President's office announced that he did not wish to use the Liberty Manor complex as the president's residence, and consequently the RKAS must find a new use of the object. In such cases, all government agencies will be asked whether they want to use this building or complex. If the request is not published, this building may be placed on a list of unnecessary objects for a certain period of time and tried to dispose of it. I hope it doesn't go that far. There are signals from many sides that there is a potential interest in the object, so we might find a new use for it. However, I cannot give a precise answer to this question at the moment, because no specific position has been taken by any public authority. The last, quite complex question would certainly deserve a whole separate inquiry...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U245	Minister, the time for reply is, unfortunately, over! I think it is possible to make up for this in the round of questions. All the more so, if I understood correctly, the fourth question, about Porkuni, was not answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U246	No, I answered that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U247	In that case, I'm sorry! The first question is asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U248	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm even embarrassed to ask you the next question. With a heavy heart, I ask you about the building of the Estonian Alexander School near Põltsamaa. This school was founded by the Estonians in the 19th century by themselves. RKAS became the owner of this building last autumn, the Ministry of Education handed it over, and now this school building is on sale with EUR 54000. Is and how can this transaction show that the RKAS legacy is maintained and sustainable?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U249	Thank you for your question. In order to answer that question, we must go back to the beginning of my answers. The RKAS is not responsible for the preservation of heritage heritage. To accuse him of not fulfilling this task is wrong. I think that the question of whether or not this object should be on the country's list of necessary items should be submitted to the whole government or to specific ministries. If an object has been declared unnecessary, it is not feasible and costly for the State to maintain it. However, in order for an object to be on the list of objects necessary for the State, a ministry, agency or other authority or an institution of a State must have a need for the object and must also know how that body intends to use the object. This body must also bear the costs associated with the subject matter. The RKAS is a public limited company that aims to make a profit. He proceeds from his opportunities, his best will, and his goal of earning income. Whether this principle should be changed requires a wider discussion, which obviously cannot be considered when dealing with a single question. But the answer is to blame the RKAS for not caring about the legacy, I repeat, it's not right. Here's another example of Keila-Joa Castle: a beautiful historical object received another life with the help of a private investor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U250	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U251	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I am referring to the Patarei prison, mentioned in the sixth question, the maritime fortress, which has been included among the seven most endangered sites in Europe. I don't understand logic. STATE Real Estate AS is a state institution. How can you say that the state, through its institutions, cannot in any way assume this responsibility to act to preserve the heritage? Even this same Patarei prison, you cannot realise and sell your plans if you do not make a primary one, put a roof on it for 1.5 million, which would increase the value of this object and make it attractive in the eyes of the buyers. This requires input from you as a general meeting. I don't understand that logic. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U252	If management approaches us with a proposal that is justified and motivated, and it is clear that such an investment decision clearly increases the value of the property and helps us to apply it or make a useful transaction, then such a decision must certainly be made. But I've received a signal from the RKAS that to increase the value of real estate requires further processing of the detailed plan that is currently in operation, it is necessary to search for a function or a solution for this building to be used as a whole. I have not been assured that this investment in particular would significantly improve the situation. A clear message from the management is that 60 million euros is needed to rebuild this building. This building has been offered to several national organisations to bring life into it and to invest in it in this way. One of the items specifically on the agenda was the Academy of Arts, which, however, was subject to a different decision. This decision has been made and we need to think about how to proceed. I agree with you that Patarei's maritime fortress is a valuable object that needs tidying up and inflating life, because it is located near the Old Town, is attractive, interesting and certainly with very high development potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U253	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U254	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I also noted the improvement in your thinking that RKAS is primarily a revenue minister. Undoubtedly, sustainable and economical management and management are one of his tasks. But it is also quite clear that maintaining heritage is the responsibility of the RKAS. If you cannot give him this task, please raise this problem in the Government of the Republic to make it clear and clear. We place a great deal of obligations on entrepreneurs in the field of heritage conservation. If the country does not set an example here, it is not convincing, it is hypocritical. Would the Government of the Republic shape the view that maintaining heritage is also the responsibility of the RKAS?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U255	Thank you for your question. The preservation of heritage is certainly one of the major tasks of the country. If the state doesn't do it, nobody else will. Certainly, if the RKAS cleans up or improves its objects, it will be given exactly the same conditions as a private investor or private developer. Just as a private developer must comply with all legislation and standards. As regards whether the RKAS should support or develop heritage in any other way, as we have already talked about last time, it is planned to carry out an analysis of the legal form of the RKAS. It will certainly also address the issue of inheritance in depth. On the basis of this analysis, concrete proposals can already be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U256	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U257	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You mentioned in your presentation the Liberty Manor and that there were progress. What are the options now under discussion? Another thing that interests us is whether there is a connection between these buildings being returned to the open-air museum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U258	Thank you for your question. Indeed, as the first point in the list of possible developments, I can mention the wish of the Estonian Open Air Museum to take back this property for public use. The discussion has been about building a representative and guest house for the country. Liberty could also be a residence for some foreign embassy. The location next to Rocca al Mare School directs an analysis of the possibility that this complex could be a kindergarten or other social-use building. These are the four main directions in which this thing can develop. But still, first there must be a specific organisation that wishes, but we do not have any official confirmation or appeal that anyone can foresee one function or another for this manor. Whether this must be done by the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Education and Research or by a foreign embassy or a foreign representation, this is indicated by time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U259	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U260	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I'm gonna ask you a question about what's going on in your home country. Where does the Kohtla-Järve state gymnasium come? In an old historical building, in an old school, as Wikipedia says, or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U261	Thank you for your question. As far as I know, it's coming somewhere else. I cannot tell the exact address by heart, but pragmatism has won a historical aspect on this issue. So this school isn't coming into the historic building.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U262	Minister, thank you for your answers. No further questions for you right now. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U263	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your answers. Good people's representatives! This question, which we raised in our inquiry, is, of course, broader. It's more fundamental. I really would not want the current minister to bear all this responsibility. What's the problem? The problem is, the RKAS has been assigned dual tasks. On the one hand, the RKAS, as owner, must behave economically and economically with its real estate and find the cheapest way to manage it, because it is just reasonable. On the other hand, the RKAS, as a state, is obliged to set an example for private owners and private companies to achieve two things at once: to be as economic as possible, also in terms of the environment, and to maintain the heritage in every respect. What are we going to shape with this inheritance? We shape the environment, teach our young people and children to love and understand this heritage, and maintain social cohesion. I'm not talking about reducing the ecological footprint. What has happened over the years? What has happened is that the RKAS, who has a general strategy and who has to follow architectural strategies, real estate strategies and heritage conservation requirements in their activities, has chosen the path that is most sustainable and economical. This is precisely because the RKAS must also generate revenue. What are we missing? We're just missing a complete picture. It is probably not possible to analyse all these thousands of objects very thoroughly from the point of view of social impacts as well as environmental impacts, but I would like to see a comprehensive picture of how we move forward with our heritage. Maybe you can't do it on your own. The lack of such a policy is the unfinished work of the government, where the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Public Administration must cooperate, certainly also the Minister of Regional Affairs. We have been talking about regional policy today. This is certainly one of the areas where the state can show that it cares about historical buildings, they are then located in Põltsamaa or Kohtla-Järve, and it helps to find them features. It doesn't take much. To do so, we need to overcome the monopolistic thinking that we only need to manage in an extremely sustainable way. No, the Estonian state is not only needed for sustainable management! Estonia is also needed for this country to be available to people. The state can also come close to people by means of a balanced, long-term, rational but smart real estate policy. So, Mr. Minister, please take this subject to your care! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U264	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U265	Good vice chairman! Good minister! Good fellows! I am talking again about the issue of Patarei fortress of the sea in the North-Tallinn region. I have been directly or indirectly involved in this object since 2009 when it was initiated to clean up a large dump that was located next to it, which led to the first arrival of Kalaranna's footpath, or cultural kilometer, and now there is a road. The area is developing, there's the Seaplane Harbour with its museum. In this sense, the marine security of Patarei, one of the European cultural monuments, is an attractive object that is worth developing. I've already tried to explain my message several times. I'll try to do it figuratively this time. Now, Minister, have you built a house? The building is known to be built from the foundation. Walls will be built on the foundation, and then a chimney and rafters will come. Well, there's a chimney at the end, and there's a rafters and a roof. But it's the other way around to keep the house safe. In order for the foundation to be preserved, it is necessary that the roof is healthy, otherwise the water that is raining will rot the foundation and the walls. That's what's happening right now in Patarei Prison. Even if the decision has not been made that this object is attractive for the future and life must go there, then we must preserve this object, otherwise there is nothing more that would require finding the functions and solutions that have been assigned to the RKAS. It is possible to develop this object in cooperation with the state, local government and private capital, as was expressed in several round tables last year. For example, the vision "Patarei 2025" has been put forward. Architects Aunin and Asmaa have offered quite a nice and modern solution, but it requires a change of policy to implement it. The state could start by investing in the roof so that the object is preserved and something can be planned there. The municipality could help develop infrastructure for example. It would be possible to think about private capital: I will come and put my hand on it, I will take one part, the other private owner will take the other part, etc. In a different way than working together, we will not solve this matter. I have realized that a private owner also looks at how to increase the market value of his object so that he can sell it to the next owner under better conditions, for example. I do not understand the current activities, and I do not understand the role of this general meeting either. So what's his real function in shaping the RKAS policy? Is it a purely formality to sign once or twice a year, or is it a substantive role? This concerns the subject, both in the wider sense and in this same area of heritage protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U266	Valeri Korb, would you like to speak from the position? Call from the remote, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U267	I came here to answer a question about Kohtla-Järve. The story is that the state gymnasium comes to the Järve district, the former 11th grade school. But when we started preparing three or four years ago, we really had another plan. There are two houses in Kohtla-Järve that are covered by heritage protection. One is a cultural house, where about a month ago there was a big party, cultural people came together, and the best were awarded prizes. The second is the old school on Sports Street 2, which was built in 1938. This is the great value of our city, since Kohtla-Järve was founded on June 15, 1946. You can see how long this school has been in existence. I know a lot of people who have studied at that school. This building would make a pretty fun house, actually. But when we started discussing how much the state gymnasium costs, it turned out that this reconstruction would cost €7.5 to €8 million. Three years ago, we were told at government level that it was too expensive. So I'm sorry, but this house is empty. Many people who live in Kohtla-Järve and who have studied in that house would like it to be fixed. I think it's a really nice house. If this building had been restored, it would look like a castle in England. But unfortunately, three years ago, when the course was taken to build a state gymnasium, no one thought about that house. Well, we were thinking, and we suggested that we do high school there, but the state told us that there was no money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U268	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We're done answering the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U269	The seventh question has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Ain Lutsepp, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams and Andres Herkel about the government's proposal to unite the Toila parish of Kohtla, Kohtla-Nõmme and Toila parishes, the Alutaguse parish formed by the merger of Iisaku, Alajõe, Mäetaguse and Tudulinna and Iluka parish. On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U270	Mr President! Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! The municipality of Alutaguse, it sounds very proud! But when you read all these parishes, what's planned for its composition, you have to say that there's a lot of illogicality there. Why? For Alajõe, Tudulinna, Isaac, Mäetaguse, and Illuka are located in the south, and form a very good association in their own right. These parishes have had a great deal of cooperation in history. I remember that when I was the director of the Iisaku Museum, one of the most interesting projects we did was precisely for these parishes. Why? They have inner cohesion, and their traditions and customs are very characteristic of them. In the other half, Kohtla-Nõmme, Kohtla and Toila project we planted very quickly at the oil shale museum, as these are more urban areas. There is no sign of the deep touch of Alutaguse's forests, which we know in Tudulinna or Alajõe, perhaps a little bit of the pudding of Peipsi will come up there. We find it very incomprehensible why it is necessary to force these two different locations: on the one hand, Alajõe, Iisaku, Mäetaguse, Illuka and Tudulinna, who want to join each other, no Illuka doesn't want to join anyone, let's be honest, and on the other hand Kohtla, Kohtla-Nõmme and Toila. They don't even have a logical center, one on one side and the other on the other side of Jõhvi. Why does the government not agree with an association that they themselves had agreed that the southern part would be the municipality of Alutaguse and Toila, Kohtla and Kohtla-Nõmme, which would not bear this beautiful name of Alutaguse municipality, would form the municipality of Toila, which is also a very beautiful name. And there's the sea! Our five questions, which the members of the Free Party Group have put together together, focus on why the government has decided this is a government decision! just put these two regions together and merge into a single large area with no logical centre. I've already asked if the Bakery Manor will be the center. The wishes of many local residents have been ignored. I think that is the most serious aspect of this because people have thought about it and agreed to it. We have a lot of problems with Ida-Viru County. If this is what they want to do, let us support it. It would not be necessary to regroup these regions. Mr. Secretary, you will read the questions yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U271	The speaker will be Mikhail Korb, Minister for Public Administration, who will probably agree with this proposal that the question should first be read out and then answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U272	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questioning and for raising the subject. I am happy to read out the questions you have asked me about this merger and to discuss it with you. I'm going to the questions right now. The first question: 'The different regions of the established local government lack geographical, economic and functional cohesion and a sense of community. What arguments did the government base its decision on? ' I agree with you somewhat. A colleague of yours used the expression that this 5000 would have become the kind of mantra being chased. It wasn't quite correct. This 5000 is a milestone that determines when to propose and when it is not to be done. It is now two merging regions and one separate rural municipality. We are talking about the Toila municipality, where the three municipalities joined, and Alutaguse and Illuka municipality. All three regions do not fulfil the 5000 criteria and should have decided whether they would join in one direction or the other. I think you're going to hurt them a little bit when you say they have no geographical coherence. They're all still in one county together, and they share a common border. When the government made this decision, it decided to exclude Jõhvi, which is a distinctly urban-type municipality, and to combine them with scattered municipalities. The second question: 'The solution proposed as a decision of the government does not correspond to the objective of HRS, as the proposed magnanimity would result in an illogical settlement system without a centre of more than 1700 km2. Why is the government deliberately ignoring the objective formulated in the administrative reform? ' To be precise, I quote: 'The aim of the administrative reform is to support the capacity of local authorities to provide high-quality public services, to use regional development assumptions, to increase competitiveness and to ensure more consistent regional development. ' I believe that this merger is in line with this objective of administrative reform. The third question: 'Why does the government not take into account the proposal to combine the administrative reform with the Toila municipality (Kohtla, Kohtla-Nõmme, Toila) Jõhvi, analysed by the North Estonian Regional Commission? As a result, a municipality with a population of nearly 17000 would be formed, meeting the indicative criteria for administrative reform (11000 inhabitants). This connection would be useful for the whole of Estonia, as it would result in a comprehensive centre-back country type of local government, as well as a forced merger in the term would strengthen Jõhvi as one of the four regional centres. ' I think it's time to bring in the numbers that talk about economic performance. Let's look at the local governments that unite. Because of its historical peculiarities, I am talking about a thousand years, i.e. how the resources are located in the territory of Ida-Virumaa, the income per capita in these municipalities varies up to five times. The income per capita in the municipality of Alajõe is EUR 683 per year, but in the municipality of Illuka it is EUR 3305. It's a very big difference, even though the municipalities are right next to each other. The capacity of the municipalities is completely different. In Kohtla, Toila, Tudulinna and Kohtla-Nõmme, income is less than 1500 euros per capita. In view of the development of the whole of Ida-Viru County, I believe that there will be a strong rural area in this region with a very strong financial capacity. I am talking about EUR 16.5 million per year, which is EUR 1645 per capita. Let's put Jõhvi next to it. Jõhvi has an annual budget of 12 million, which is only EUR 1017 per person. If we put Jõhvi together with these municipalities, it would be clear that most of the money would go to Jõhvi for development, because the centre would inevitably attract resources. It is precisely these seven small scattered municipalities that must be supported and consideration given to how to develop coastal areas and infrastructures and how to solve major problems. The new municipality is at least one and a half times more capable of its capacity than the current Jõhvi municipality. I think that's why this decision was made. The fourth question: 'Why is the creation of Alutaguse rural municipality, which connects the logical unit with more than 5 000 inhabitants and the southern region of Ida-Viru County of more than 1,400 km2, not supported (if the municipality of Illuka is coerced)? This would be a large area located throughout the countryside and sparsely populated in the southern part of Ida-Virumaa, characterised by long-term cooperation, indigenous population, indigenous forests of Alutaguse and proximity to Lake Peipsi? What are the reasons for the government? " To a large extent, I have already mentioned the reasons. The first recital is the same dislocation. The settlement of Toila rural municipality is no different from the settlement of Alutaguse and Illuka rural municipality and the number of inhabitants does not meet the criterion of 5000 inhabitants. The creation of such a "two beaches" is not a bad plan, there will be Lake Peipsi on one side and on the other side of the Gulf of Finland. I think all of this would help the whole parish develop well. Question 5: Is the alternative considered, whether and to what extent the municipality of Alutaguse (Alajõe, Iisaku, Mäetaguse and Tudulinna) remains separate, which is also justified by the HRS, because the municipality complies with the exception set out in section 9 (3) (1) of the HRS and has been requested by the Government of the Republic? The municipality of Illuka is connected to Toila (and Jõhvi). " Unfortunately, at this stage, it is no longer possible to implement this exception. The deadline for implementing this derogation was 15 February. This time has passed, and now the government proceeds from its proposal, which it has made, which means that all these parishes are united. Thank you for your questions and I am ready to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U273	That's good to hear. Küllik's Hatter presents the first of them. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U274	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have understood that the North-Estonian Regional Commission has also broken down on this issue. I don't know what you're suggesting to them. But since there are so few of us left in the hall, on a trusting basis, you could still give us heart. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You could say what the exceptions or opportunities you expect from the Riigikogu to make the government's work smoother and more logical so that you can still come out of the boots of the Reform Party. A few weeks ago, I tried to make it clear, but I haven't learned a lesson. Maybe you can give us a heartbeat.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U275	Yeah, looks like now's the time to do it. Let me put it this way: we have already been discussing this with you, and my answer has not changed in the past. The Government Coalition has agreed that the law on administrative reform will remain the way it is. Your colleague's comment was very correct that it is rather strange to implement the law of another coalition that it is the government that cannot change things. It was a little different, but it could be applied here. Unfortunately, the coalition has agreed and must work under the conditions that exist. There are no other conditions in sight at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U276	Minister, heart beating is not mandatory, but it is advisable. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U277	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your reply, you explained the matter in such a way that you decided to leave Jõhvi separate as a clearly urban unit and put together rural governments. Unfortunately, your logic is not consistent. You did not follow the same logic when you decided to join the municipality of Luunja with the city of Tartu, although the panel of experts had found that it would be more appropriate to join the municipality of Tartu if it had been forced to join. Absolutely this logic does not apply to the bizarre community around Pärnu, where swamps and bogs will be part of the city of Pärnu, but the actual suburbs are under Tori. Why such inconsistency in your claims?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U278	Thank you for your question. This question makes sense and could be expected. My answer is that each situation must be dealt with separately. It is not possible to measure everything in one measure. It makes sense to add this list to Keila City and Keila Municipality, because there we have made a third proposal. But as you rightly pointed out, the situation of the city of Tartu and the municipality of Luunja is quite different. The municipality of Luunja is now living clearly at the expense of the city of Tartu, i.e. the wealthy taxpayers of the city of Tartu live in the municipality of Luunja. It's not the fault of Luunya's parish, it's just life. The situation is similar in other municipalities around Tartu; the situation is similar in Tallinn. I've just given you an example of the bill, but their backgrounds and reasons are quite different. These parishes, which receive a great deal of income in Ida-Virumaa, do not receive it at Jõhvi's expense. On the contrary, the capacity of the merging municipalities is one and a half times greater than that of the municipality of Jõhvi was the reason that forced the municipalities to join each other, assuming that this resource would go not to the centre but to the development of these rural municipalities, or peripheral areas. Unfortunately, the city attracts resources, and everything is concentrated in the middle. Maybe that makes sense. But right now, the government was guided by a different logic. There are more of these areas in Estonia. One example is Viljandi, where the town is surrounded by Viljandi Parish, and Võru, where the town is surrounded by Võru Parish. Such areas, maybe not of this size, but there are other areas of this type in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U279	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U280	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! You described, quite figuratively and beautifully, this future realm, which can take as its own feature the song 'Do you know the land that goes from Peipsi beach to the shore of the Baltic Sea'. But you didn't answer one simple question: Where does the center of this parish come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U281	That's a good question. I do not want to answer this question for a very simple reason: I do not want to make decisions for anyone else. If these parishes don't agree where the center comes from, the new council will do it for them. I think the new council can decide where this new center will come from.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U282	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You probably know as well as I do that local parish leaders and local people don't think such a plan is reasonable. They themselves know very well that the income per capita in the Alajõe region is much lower, and this argument does not convince them. What do you say to the locals who really have tried to keep life there and to make it better and better, and who want to go on with Alutaguse municipality, and who thinks that Toila Municipality might rather join Jõhvi? In addition, for the sake of the verbatim report, I would also like to say that if Illuka Municipality were added to Alutaguse Municipality, this criterion of 5000 inhabitants was met.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U284	Thank you for your question. I know the position of local leaders. I wouldn't say that all residents are against this plan, there are different opinions. But not all leaders object to it either, there are leaders who think that this is the way to do it. The new situation that arises after the elections must be taken into account. When I look at these figures, I say that I am convinced that this decision is correct. More resources will remain available to deliver and develop and to provide people with the best possible range of services. Once again, for a human being, there are one and a half times as much resources there as in the city of Jõhvi. Compared to Kohtla-Järve, this difference is even greater. The problem of Kohtla-Järve, where the distance between the two districts is 40 kilometres, must not be forgotten. This issue is also on a separate agenda, but there is no point in starting this controversy right now. These changes will certainly not be made during this process. When a new municipality arises, municipalities can negotiate with each other what future developments and activities will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U285	Thomas Paur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U286	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is as if the previous question continues, but I will ask it anyway. In several towns across Estonia, buildings covered by heritage protection are standing in ruins. Has it been discussed in the government that they should be identified, that a decision can be made and taken away from heritage protection?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U287	Honourable questioner, thank you for your question. This previous inquiry concerned the ownership of the RKAS. As I said, the RKAS has 101 objects, which are in the interest of heritage protection, that is, they are taken into heritage protection. The statistics on how many such objects there are all over Estonia, unfortunately I do not have at the moment, because it is not in my direct field, it is dealt with by the Minister of Culture. But I'm sure it could be taken out by the statistics, and if you're interested, I can pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U288	Ain Lutsepp asks a question about the seventh question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U289	Mr. President! Dear Minister, My question continues the question of Krista Aru. This is about Illuka's parish, which wants to remain independent, or separate. Can this request receive a positive response, or will the municipalities choose an equal level of poverty?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U290	Thank you. I understand your question, but unfortunately I cannot answer it for a number of reasons. First of all, I don't know the official position of Illuka's parish. Its leaders have given their opinion informally, but the official address of the council has not yet been received. The government will certainly look at all the referrals sent to it and assess whether there is hope for an exemption or not. I can't answer right now, and I can't give too much hope. We're still talking about an area with a little over 1,000 inhabitants. This situation could have been predicted. Once again, Illuka municipality is probably one of the richest municipalities in Estonia, with an income per capita of 3300 euros per year. A rural municipality with 1000 inhabitants has a budget of 3300,000, which, in my opinion, even when talking about some cities, would be a completely large budget. It is clear that it is a prosperous parish compared to other parishes. Hence his desire to remain alone and to be alone. Understood. We have said that we want to improve the administrative capacity of the municipalities during the administrative reform. Of course, the Pretty One has a clear argument that he's already capable. The resources of this parish are really huge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U291	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U292	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Before the administrative reform began, Ida-Virumaa consisted of four logical cooperation regions. Unfortunately, the boundaries of the municipalities joining in the administrative reform do not match the boundaries of these logical cooperation regions. The county border also changes, as some municipalities go to another county. As far as I know, if I'm wrong, correct me, one of the supporters of the idea of this great Alutaguse municipality is Toila Vallavolikogu. Are the other municipalities that go to the large municipality of Alutaguse more supportive of this idea, or was the Government of the Republic supposed to make such a decision because all opinions were different?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U293	Thank you for your question. Really, I wouldn't speak for anyone else. I wouldn't dare tell you anyone's words because they would say that I misinterpreted someone or said something wrong. I don't want anyone involved in any misinterpretation or interpretation. There are supporters of this merger. I assure you that there are supporters, and I assure you that there are even more who oppose this accession. I'm talking about parish leaders. However, this possibility of large mergers was also at issue during the discussions on administrative reform, which could not be ruled out. Maybe in a little different form, but that's what we were talking about. Certainly, the decision to unite these three regions is not made by only one party. This is the decision of all parties that belong to the government. This is a joint decision made by political parties together. I'm afraid some people don't like this decision, but some people do. It's a matter of different opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U294	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U295	Mr President! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, I have a completely different opinion than the Minister. I think that the municipality of Alutaguse, in its form, is not a good idea when two regions are put together, between which Jõhvi is involved. Secondly, I do not find any words to support the need for all rich people to support those who are poorer in their wallets, and all of us must then be evenly poor or medium. This is definitely not the point of administrative reform. The big point of the administrative reform should still be that life in Estonia would be better everywhere, and all the obligations that the state has to its people would be equally well fulfilled both in Narva and in Alajõe. The state must create a sense of security for people; it must guarantee it everywhere; it must give clear knowledge that it will take care of its people. How the creation of a large Alutaguse rural municipality can provide a good quality of services is yet to be thought out. That's not a very smart thing to do. I also know very well those people who are in favour of this great Alutaguse municipality. That's their opinion. The fact that there are different opinions is a natural part of democracy. However, when it comes to administrative reform, we need to think first and foremost about cooperation regions where there is, as is the case with each other, and where this kind of secret language is already known. We know very well that all of us from one area sometimes use different words than others: 'pang' or 'bucket', etc. It belongs to a human being. It is precisely these working units that must be helped by the administrative reform in order to enable them to function even better in the future. How can one work very well in a large area of 60 kilometres from one end to the other and between its parts is the city of Jõhvi? Let us not forget, too, that if this municipality of Illuka, which really is a rich parish and is well managed, none of us doubt it, join the municipality of Alutaguse, i.e. Alajõe, Iisaku, Mätaguse and Tudulinna, then we can have one great municipality with forest and land and Lake Peipsi. That's what we want from Ida-Virumaa. We should rethink this and think once about the people who have expressed their wishes and opinions on the ground and look for the best solution. Perhaps the Toila municipality should join Jõhvi instead. I know this has been discussed. But the most illogical formation that has now been proposed is not good for Ida-Viru County in this form. I say this, fully sensing its cultural, economic and social impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U296	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U297	Thank you. Mrs Krista Aru, I do not know whether I am an opponent or whether I agree with you, but I will say a few words about what is happening in our region. This is our hometown. I think everyone's heart is shaking a little bit because of their place of residence. I mean, I agree with you. Fifteen years ago, Tarmo Loodus, Minister of the Interior, proposed the creation of centres of attraction. I remember they were Jõhvi, Kohtla-Järve, Kiviõli, Iisaku, Sillamäe and Narva. These are places where people around them can receive services offered at the level of the state and local government. It all made sense. But I'll come back to that, really, if you need to drive from Kohtla-Järve to Sirgalan, to the Vigilante, it's a little too long. The rules have changed. But I didn't understand when Kohtla-Nõmme, Kohtla and Toila wanted to join and form a unit north of the Kohtla-Järve Järve district. 4700 people didn't stop and told us to give us Kukruse from Kohtla-Järve to create a new parish without a name. But it's still in the future. So it makes more sense to think. But I say in my opinion that these rules, which have not been laid down today or two or three months ago, but which we have been talking about for two years, are not, in my opinion, the best in order to make administrative reform sensible. So let's see how the local government leaders look at what happens to this big area. But I agree that Jõhvi and Kohtla-Järve are at the heart of this rural municipality. I believe this is the first stage. Because life still shows that it should be concentrated, and then there will be a large parish with a centre in Jõhvi, where 55,000 inhabitants live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U298	There is no further call, nor does the Minister have a wish to speak, so I will close the negotiations. The seventh question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U299	The eighth question has been submitted by Riigikogu members Jaak Madison, Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaas, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild on administrative reform bottlenecks in the example of Pühalepa parish. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U300	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the questioning of the members of our group together with this introduction, because the introduction is an important part of this. The municipality of Pühalepa is the easternmost municipality of Hiiumaa, 255 square kilometres large, where 1590 people live. That's what a forced merger is waiting for. It is desirable to form one large town that covers Hiiumaa. The leaders of the municipality of Pühalepa predict that the merger will give the opposite result and the lives of the people of the municipality will be worse. Currently, there are two schools, two kindergartens, three libraries, a social centre, residential housing, a cultural and youth centre, two sports buildings, a nature education centre, your cemetery, etc. There are about 90 miles [140 km] of roads on the Valla. There is no place fee in kindergartens, there are also interest groups free of charge. For children's sports and cultural events and swimming pools, transport is at the expense of the municipality. Schools come out successfully with public money; teachers' wages do not have to be paid by the municipality. The financial capacity of the municipality is sustainable, while the wage fund increases by 5 to 10% each year. The parish leaders predict that after joining Hiiumaa, hundreds of thousands of euros will be lost from the salaries of teachers and this will lead to the closure of schools. The municipality must also start to tender for the smallest services or products, as volumes are increasing. This, however, does not ensure a better or faster service. There is also the risk that neighbouring municipalities will spend the resources they have earned in the Pühalepa area after joining the loan church. It is also clear that the number of municipal councillors representing the municipality of Pühalepa remains very low in the new council of Hiiu. Therefore, the municipality of Pühalepa does not wish to join the Grand Municipality of Hiiu. Our questions to the Minister are as follows. How can we ensure that all the services currently available to the inhabitants of the municipality, many of which are free, are not remote from the residents or are not paid? How is fair representation and participation of smaller municipalities in the authorities and decision-making processes of the emerging power ensured? How is it ensured that the more prosperous and poorer rural areas do not lose the fruits of their years of work and that the poorer do not solve their problems at the expense of their neighbours? In the course of administrative reform, how is the identity and historical continuity of the long-standing local authorities to be preserved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U301	The questions for questioning will be answered by Minister Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U302	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. An inquiry is very serious. Not only has one hour gone in this Chamber in this debate, but we are at a stage where it is very important to discuss what happens next and what the future holds. The map of Estonia has changed to the unknown. As of now, instead of 213 parishes, Estonia will have a 70-75 parish on the map, according to the government's decision, 69 in particular, if all the proposals made by the government are taken into account. Of course, the problems you put forward in your inquiry are also a cause for concern in many other places. Many other municipalities are out for exactly the same thing and want to ensure that the provision of services in their area does not deteriorate. But one clear way to secure itself against changes or fatal decisions for at least four years is an agreement between the municipalities and an agreement which states that schools and cultural houses must remain for several years and which services must be maintained in one field or another. I think that very many places have been working not only on the current state of play, but also on the future and on the way to what their future will be. The leaders of the parish of Pühalepah can be commended for the work they have done for years. However, all the other people who, in the course of the administrative reform, even though perhaps they did not want to join their neighbours, did this work, signed agreements and discussed the future of the region must also be commended. Of course, in the emerging new situation, they must try to get to the council in order to protect the interests of the people of their region. But this process awaits almost all of Estonia, 85% of the municipalities. It's unfortunately inevitable. The same issues need to be addressed in all these places. I will now go to specific questions. The first question: 'How can we ensure that all the services currently available to the inhabitants of the municipality (many of them free of charge) are not distanced or not paid? ' I think that the first possibility to do so, I have already mentioned it, is the accession agreement, where these things are fixed. Secondly, the new municipality government is formed as a result of the work of the council, but the council elects residents. I think that representation in the council is the key issue that people need to resolve in order to protect their interests. The Council bears political responsibility. If the council cuts some kind of service or makes some functions pay, then it will certainly be followed by political responsibility. I think this is a question that cannot be answered by one. But certainly the election of the council is the key. If the council gets elected, it can properly represent the area and all the services are as good as they used to be. The second question: 'How will fair representation and participation of smaller rural municipalities be ensured in the authorities and decision-making processes of the great power that will be created? " As far as I know, the two municipalities of Hiiumaa, which joined, agreed among themselves on the principle of public administration, i.e. services will be provided through private municipalities. They have also sent the same message in case the other two municipalities are connected to them. They agree to continue working on the principle of participatoryism. The plan is certainly that the services currently provided in small municipalities will not disappear. But, of course, if a new council is elected, a new political situation will arise, even though the representatives of the electoral alliances may be elected. Election unions are the ones who shape policies in the field. Just as they have worked for the inhabitants of Hiiumaa to this day, so they will probably continue to work in the future. The third question: "How can we ensure that when more prosperous and poorer rural municipalities join, the harder ones do not lose the fruits of their years of work and the poorer ones do not solve their problems at the expense of their neighbours? " When the school has been fixed in the parish, it is unlikely that the leaders of the neighborhood will come and tear down the house that was made. I think the work that has been done so far has been appreciated by the residents. I don't think the new council will make any irrational decisions or do anything against human logic. I also think that the management of the new municipality is only working to ensure that the municipality can develop better and that the development is uniform throughout the territory of the new rural municipality. Question 4: How is the identity and historical continuity of the long-standing local authorities in the process of administrative reform to be maintained? ' I think the capacity of the local government has been overestimated on this issue. The historical identity is still carried by people, not by local authorities. Local authorities perform the specific functions prescribed by the Local Government Organisation Act. Of course, maintaining a regional identity is one of the important points. But just as the people once lived in the Holy Alms, so they continue to live there, and if they lived in Käina before, they will continue to live in Käina. Nothing's gonna change. If the parish house is now in Kärdla, regional life will not change so much that the entire historical heritage will immediately enter the trash bin. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U303	A round of questions. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U304	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. The talk that they can defend their interests in the council does not support simple mathematics. If there are just under 1,600 people in the Pühalepa area and the rest of the parishes that are merged are 8,000 people in total, then those voters who can vote for those council members who would start taking matters out of the past Pühalepa are so few that the best they can get is to get one or two people on the council. In fact, it is not possible for these people to get a political output in the new council. This means that no one stands up for defending these achievements to date. That's the whole point. You said there was an agreement on what to keep and how long to keep. You actually told us by saying that the whole point of the administrative reform was to shut things down quietly. However, in case of non-accession, they should not be shut down. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U305	I think that my answer, which you pointed out at the end of your question, was ripped out of context. I answered the question of how to ensure that the services that are currently available to the inhabitants of the municipality do not distance themselves from people or become paid-for. I was talking about a way to do it. Of course, it is not an objective, at least our party does not see this objective in the administrative reform, to put something in place or to pull it together. I don't quite agree with how you interpreted my words. But as far as representation is concerned, I say that there are worse situations in Estonia. For example, I live in a municipality with over 420000 inhabitants. Maybe I'm a bad example, but I can tell you that if my neighbor doesn't like the fact that there's no garbage left somewhere nearby, she doesn't feel like her interests aren't represented on the council. He just writes somewhere on the portal or on the Internet using any other option, informs the district manager, and the problem will definitely be solved. If I am not mistaken, even public transport is free of charge in this large municipality. Once the council has brought into force the government, it will be delivered in accordance with common decisions. I don't think size is that fundamental here. If people are the doers and want to make things better, even in a local government of this size, where more than 400,000 people live, it is possible to stand up for its own interests. Even in a community not very large as in Hiiumaa, I think that would be no problem. With the help of the Internet and telecommunications, problems reach our society's openness, council and municipal members very quickly, regardless of whether they are located in Pühlepa or Kärdla.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U306	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U307	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. If one municipality currently has a share of free services and the situation is good, but not in the adjacent area, what does the logic now say, can these services be lost as a result of the merger, because the municipalities probably have not had the same opportunities? How do you think these services would still be maintained? It was nice to hear that people are provided with free services. But the others just next door haven't been able to do it so far. How do they have to be able to offer these services and also free of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U308	Thank you. Very right, you have to choose the managers who can organise life so that the services are free. Once again, I will give an example of a local government with more than 400000 people. It is possible to provide a free service here, but I very much agree with the critics of free public transport that it is not really free. Someone is paying and, of course, paying the taxpayer. It is always a question of choices and opportunities. Experience shows that people greatly appreciate being cared for and worked for. Is free always good? I can't answer that. In some cases, this is very good, but in some cases, you have to consider whether everything has to be completely free. It's a place of consideration. But people greatly appreciate when social services, including circles of interest, and other good things are offered free of charge. People choose managers who can organise life so that it gets better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U309	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. The round of negotiations will be opened by Martin Helme. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U310	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good minister! I must say that I am absolutely not satisfied with the answers. This whole thing didn't add up at all. Let us start by choosing those local government leaders who are able to manage the local government well. But this is what has been done in the Sanctuary! It's been done for years and years! There's no debt, the agencies are working. Schools, free school transport, cultural houses just everything works! They have chosen such leaders, but now they can no longer choose them, because they will be merged with a government so large that their voice will no longer be heard in this municipality. They are swallowed up by other municipalities, where there have been so far leaders who have borrowed to the permissive limit and have not managed to provide quality services such as the Pühalepas. It is not possible for the people of the Sanctuary to continue to choose political leadership at this level, as their voice disappears on the island of Hiiumaa. That's the whole point. It was said here that many other municipalities did not want to join, but they have finally agreed on the situation and have agreed how long their schools, cultural houses and other institutions will last. It is, in fact, through the saying of flowers that, in a good case, until the next elections, the institutions that people are accustomed to are kept. Until the next election, i.e. three or four years, and then they still disappear. Perhaps a transitional period will be granted, but eventually life will die in those small rural areas that have so far been independent and have managed to cope with their own. I must emphasise once again that every time we have talked about administrative reform here, there are many more municipalities in Estonia, regardless of size, who are doing quite well or very well, than those who cannot. For some reason, we are always given examples of places where things are bad, but there are many fewer places than those where things are good. Now these people and their municipalities are being deprived of the opportunity to organise their lives, they are all being placed in a large boiler and they have to actually pay off the debts of other municipalities. They have to start shutting down their facilities or charging people for exercise and recreational circles. This is the reality of administrative reform. That's what people get after these connections have happened. Yes, some have agreed, as a result of major disputes, that this reality will be delayed a bit and that two or three more schools will be kept open. But we know what happens to schools that are always publicly spoken of as having no future. Those schools are running out of kids on their own. If the opposite signal were given that this school is kept open in any case and life is guaranteed here, it wouldn't run out of children. But there are, and there are, examples in Estonia of how institutions must be shut down as a result of such instigation, because people already act proactively and do not put children in the first class, not in a school close to home, but somewhere further. This is the real result of this administrative reform. I am also deeply disturbed by the talk of inevitability. We have talked a year and longer about how it is inevitable for people to move away from Estonia and within Estonia people will move from small places to large places and small places will die out. I say that those people who think that social processes are inevitable, take a line, go fishing and rest their feet, but don't deal with governance. The idea of government is to direct social processes. If people think that all these processes are inevitable, let them not deal with governance. I don't think we have anything inevitable or inevitable. It just isn't! Where and how people live, what the economy is doing or how schools operate is all about political choices, money management and administrative structures. It's not inevitable. It is these choices that have been made in Estonia that have led to the disappearance of schools and to the closure of children's circles of interest, or to the increase in the fees for participating in them. These choices have led to municipalities that have so far done very well in budgeting to pay off the debts of others. These are political choices, this is not inevitable. I almost regret the minister who eats cooked soup here before, but I do not see any significant interest in making an important exchange rate adjustment by the current government or the current minister. This is, in fact, another example of how we can talk about the heel turn of the Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U311	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Today's last, eighth question has received answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-13_U312	After the hammer hit, there is an opportunity to participate in a free microphone. I don't see any wishes for that. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for a long working day with debate. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 21.38 p.m.
