ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 5th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session. Does anyone have a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? No, it's not. In that case, we'll do a presence check. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 25.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U2	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of Members of the Gambling Tax Board' delivered by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to point out that, during the debate on this item, each member of the Riigikogu can ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Now, on behalf of the lead committee, I would like to ask for a presentation of the Chair's member of the Monetary Commission... Please, Andres Herkel, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U3	Thank you, Mr President. I must raise this procedural issue at the beginning of today's sitting, because it will no longer work on Monday. In fact, we had this case last week that the appointment of a group of friends was assigned to the working hours of the Riigikogu. A few days ago, however, we received a letter from our colleague Aivar Kokka inviting us to a meeting with the Chairman of the Riigikogu on Monday 20 February at 11 a.m. The subject of this meeting is certainly a very important development in the country and a partnership with local governments, but the Free Party Group wondered whether such meetings could really take place during the working hours of the committees. Our group has the custom of participating in the plenary sessions of the Riigikogu and in the work of committees. Has the Board of the Riigikogu discussed this and can such invitations to events taking place during the working hours of the Riigikogu be considered reasonable and legitimate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U4	Thank you for that question. During this time, when I have been a member of the Board of the Riigikogu, we have not discussed this issue separately. It is good practice, however, that the Riigikogu does not plan meetings in which members of the Riigikogu should participate, either in the time of the plenary session, the permanent committee or the meeting of the special committee, or in the time prescribed for the work of the political groups. This has been good practice for quite a long time, and I believe that it can also be brought to the attention of the conveners. Aivar Chef, please! Is there a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U5	Since my name was mentioned, I should comment. I advise Herkel to read the invitation. This is an invitation from the Chairman of the Riigikogu, which I simply sent to all members of the Riigikogu because it was requested. The next time a question arises, you should ask the person who submitted the invitation, not the transmitter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U6	I believe you have each other's contacts, and you can do this nicely. Now we have also been able to draw attention to this issue in front of all 101 colleagues. Another procedural question, Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U7	I have an urgent request for you, Honourable Speaker Eiki Nestor, to explain this problem to you. That would be the easiest way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U8	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U9	I support Ammas' proposal. I will now use the procedural question to talk about the subject that has arisen. I've made an inquiry twice to the Prime Minister, and there's always been an answer to someone named Loot. What's the matter with Loot when we talk about the Prime Minister? Haven't we had it so that instead of Nestor, the Chef and Ratas, he's talking about Loot? Who's gonna talk in my place? Is it Milling?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U10	I can talk!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U11	Thank you. I myself have been in this role for a few years, and my opinion is my personal opinion, not the opinion of the Riigikogu's board of directors, is that the questions of the members of the Riigikogu must be answered by the member of the government itself in any case. If a member of the Riigikogu asks to see documents relating to the work of the government, even if they are documents intended for the internal use of a government institution, the members of the Riigikogu, in my opinion, should not be subject to any restrictions. Estonia is a parliamentary state, and this must also be the basis for correspondence. But these issues are already getting very broad, so I ask the members of the Riigikogu to focus on their questions. Otherwise, we're gonna have a pretty long day here. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U12	Mr President! You're basically the same status as Mr. Nestor. Isn't there something you can do? Take a break, consult with one another, and in a few minutes let us know that this inappropriate time has been cancelled. Whether you can set a new time now or not, this is a technical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U13	Thank you. Well, I can't say I'm the same as Eiki Nestor. Eiki Nestor is much more important because he is the chairman of the Riigikogu and there is only one president of the Riigikogu. I believe that we can resolve this issue by agreeing a meeting with Eiki Nestor. You can discuss this among yourselves. It is probably practical to plan this meeting outside the time of Riigikogu meetings and the working hours of committees and political groups. Please, Andres Herkel, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U14	Thank you, Mr President. We can determine, of course, the date of this meeting with Nestor, but it is not possible to raise this issue again at the beginning of the Monday sitting, because then the right time will be over. Am I right to understand that even though the members of the Free Party were also invited to attend this meeting, but since we prefer to work on Riigikogu committees at the same time, we are not really asked to attend the meeting to which the invitation was sent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U15	Good questioner! I have not called this meeting, and therefore I do not have the authority to answer this question, but I have already said my point of view in answering the first question. It is good practice that the meetings in which the members of the Riigikogu should participate are not planned for the time of the Riigikogu meetings or the working hours of the permanent committees or special committees. Please, Eiki Nestor, President of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U16	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I apologize for having caused such a mess! Secondly, I call on everyone to participate in the work of the committees during this meeting. Thirdly, we are still friendly, the event is organized by an ambassador group working with local authorities, together with the professors involved in the event. Indeed, little of the fact that they do not know when Riigikogu committees are working, they do not know that they cannot send out invitations on behalf of the President of the Riigikogu, so the Chairman does not know that he has invited anyone anywhere. [[Laughter.]] My request is that you be present on the committees, and if you happen to miss a committee meeting, welcome also to this event, which is certainly interesting and important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U17	Thank you. I believe that this issue has been fully resolved. The question of not planning meetings in the Riigikogu for the time reserved for plenary sessions or committees or political group meetings has not long been so prominent. Thank you for this debate. But now let's go back to the first item on the agenda. I would like to ask Einar Vallbaum, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission, for the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U18	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The hot time was over, the debates were over, so let's hope it goes further. Memo (359 SE) Appointment of members of the Riigikogu's decision 'Announcement of Members of the Gambling Tax Board' for the first reading. According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Council of the Riigikogu is formed from the Gambling Tax. This council includes six members of the Riigikogu and one representative from the Ministry of Education and Research, one from the Ministry of Culture and one from the Ministry of Social Affairs. The appointment of members of the Gambling Tax Board has traditionally been initiated in the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu on the basis of proposals from political groups and ministries. At the meeting of 10 January 2017, the Finance Committee decided to initiate a draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of members of the Gambling Tax Board, which, according to information received from political groups, excludes Mailis Reps, who has been appointed as a member of the Government of the Republic, and Meelis Mälberg, a member of the Riigikogu. Instead, members of the Riigikogu Märt Sults and Mart Helme are appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. The Committee on Monetary Affairs initiated a draft s. a on 11 January. The draft was adopted by the Riigikogu Board on 13 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was 27 January at 16 a.m. No amendments were tabled by Riigikogu members, political groups or committees by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 6 and 13 February. At its meeting on 13 February, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to propose an amendment, supplementing the draft with the provisions that exclude the member of the Gambling Tax Board Lauri Luik and appoint the member of the Supervisory Board Mikhail Stalnukhin (by 6 members of the Supervisory Board, with 3 abstentions) as a member of the Supervisory Board. The text of the draft proposal contains linguistic and technical specifications. The Commission took the following decisions: to send the draft for first reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Thursday, 16 February (consensually) and to put the draft to the final vote (by 8 members of the committee, 3 against, no abstentions).
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U19	Is the waitress done? Thank you. You have questions. First Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U20	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Maybe my ear got it wrong, but I think you started your presentation with the word "memo" and said the bill number was 359. So do we have a wrong bill on the table, number 366? Are we discussing a memo or a draft decision? Secondly, I have seen that at the last moment the Committee on Monetary Affairs proposed that Lauri Luik be excluded from the Council. Can I also find out the Commission's reasons why Lauri Luik is excluded and Mikhail Stalnukhin will be replaced by him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U21	Those are very good questions. Yeah, I've got 359 on this paper, and that's how I counted it. Actually, it's a bill. But why Lauri Luik is excluded is also a very good question. I think you could ask that question to your partymate Aivar Sõerd. I'm sure he can answer why this happened because he doesn't follow good practices.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U22	To be clear, we still have a draft decision 366 on the agenda. Let's get on with the questions. Jürgen Ligi next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U23	Thank you. The previous answer was very poor. One subject should not be so vaguely related to the other. I would point out that the proposal to exclude Lauri Luik from the Council was not made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but was actually made by three coalition groups, and this proposal does not fit procedurally. Do you think there is any reason to change the composition of this Council? Personally, as Minister of Finance, I proposed abolishing this Council, one Tax Distribution Council and merging it with others. The previous government actually reached this agreement. What do you know about the longevity of this Gambling Tax Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U24	Thank you for your question. After all, you have this opportunity to propose that this Council be abolished. In that sense, there's no question. All good suggestions are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U25	Remo Holsmer next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U26	Thank you. A good colleague from the Committee on Monetary Affairs! Perhaps you will also enlighten the great hall of the Riigikogu, how this proposal developed, who made it? In the Commission, I remember, three political groups, the IRL, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party, proposed to exclude Lauri Luik from the Gambling Tax Council. Question two. Once this decision is passed, the largest political group in the Riigikogu will no longer have a representative in the Gambling Tax Council. How does this coincide with the principle of open government, which the new government has strongly promoted?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U27	Thank you for your question. You answered the first question who proposed it yourself, there's no point in repeating it, you know that. I will answer the second question exactly as before that some people do not adhere to good principles. This initiative came from your person. Aivar Sõerd didn't follow good practice, and so it happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U28	Next, Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! At the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 13 February, when we discussed this point, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs introduced the issue of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund. As we know, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has also initiated a draft to change the composition of the Board of the Guarantee Fund, but it has not reached anywhere. I understand from this debate that the amendment made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the Gambling Tax Council was a punishment for not submitting a resignation application of my own accord from the Board of the Guarantee Fund. At the same time, it is known that the paragraph of the Act made by the previous Riigikogu states that the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund does not change in the rhythm of the change of coalitions. Is this act of revenge in the new power union becoming the norm, and what other actions can you expect?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U30	Thank you, good questioner! I do not know what the previous Riigikogu formations have done; unfortunately, I have failed to participate in them. There is no way of talking about any act of revenge if it is simply the way in which agreements that have been concluded in the past are not respected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U31	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! This story is getting really messed up right now, especially because of your explanations. I am not part of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and have not participated in these discussions. I therefore ask for clarification. You have repeatedly referred to Aivar Sõerd, who is not a member of the Gambling Tax Council, but Lauri Luik, who you propose to replace, is included. What is the connection between the two things, and what was the justification that was given when it was proposed to exclude Lauri Luik from the Council and to replace him with another member?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U33	Thank you, good questioner! As far as I know, it has been a good practice to abide by agreements. So if Aivar Sõerd had written a nicely written statement that he wanted to step out of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund, Lauri Luik would have continued with the Gambling Tax Council. It's that simple. You know this very well, you have discussed this in your group. It was Aivar Sõerdi's decision not to leave, and that's how it's gone now. What are we talking about here in this big hall so terribly? It's actually known to everyone. It's become such a bad taste for just one person's tantrum. If a person wants to tantrum, let him whine, then there's nothing to do, others can just get in the way. [[In the diner.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U34	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am not a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have mentioned here twice that there is a violation of good practice on the agenda. I am a member of the Social Affairs Committee and I know that there is also a violation of good practice on the agenda. What kind of good practice is being violated in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and what are the solutions that you consider necessary in the Committee on Monetary Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U36	Thank you, good questioner! As far as I know, things have usually been that when the coalition has changed, some of the members of the Board of the Guarantee Fund have written their own statement and left it. But Aivar Sõerd hasn't wanted to do it, and so it's all gone now. This is good practice, from the point of view of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U37	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have a slightly broader question. When you discussed this matter in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, the record was not very written about what happened there. The current discussion also shows this. We have only recently had a great deal of talk here about whether we should record committee meetings. We decided we didn't have to record, we only use recordings to write thorough protocols. Now I have also seen, by reading the minutes of the other committees, that they have become even more superficial than they were before. Is there any broader agreement in the new coalition that the protocols will now be written in a very laconic manner? Or is it just a coincidence? I have received a few protocols that do not reflect at all what happened in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U39	Thank you, good questioner! I think it's a coincidence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U40	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U41	Thank you. I'm going to specify some of these numbers. You said you had 359 on your paper, Einar, but the manager said the right one was 366. So what's the right number?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U42	That's what the manager said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U43	Got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U44	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I have this feeling that whoever is watching this discussion right now probably doesn't understand much about the questions that are being asked, and not at all about your answers. Why don't you explain what this good practice, which you have repeatedly mentioned here, means and what is the act of revenge mentioned in this discussion? Can you explain to the hall, to the observers of this discussion and to those who will read the verbatim record, how the rotation of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund takes place and how it differs from the rotation of the members of the Gambling Tax Board contained in the current draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U46	Thank you, good questioner! I don't think there's gonna be any revenge action. You have been a member of the Riigikogu for so long that you know how these practices work here. If you don't understand anything, we can talk about it later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U47	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! When people are committed to their work, the question arises as to why they should resign. As a new member of this House, I would like to ask whether this is a parliamentary racket, about that, if it does not fit, then you have to do it and do it. Who drives it, who directs it, and how does it coincide with the principle that a Member is free to act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U49	Thank you, good questioner! I said from the beginning that the committees would listen to proposals coming from ministries and political groups, and then decisions would be taken. That's what's done. The proposals came from the political groups and ministries, and that is how this decision came about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U50	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U51	Good waitress! You said it was an absolute coincidence, but you're talking about the custom. These things don't add up. Chance isn't a practice, it's a practice that keeps repeating. You're ready to talk about customs around the corner, but I'd like that to stay out of the way. Now, please explain in such a way that it would be nice to see everyone in the verbatim: this is the practice and this is the way it is, and we acted in accordance with the custom that these bad people had broken. So why don't you start with that sentence and do it very slowly so that this practice is publicly explained to everyone in the verbatim!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U52	Thank you. Let's try to put it this way so you can understand it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U53	I can! But the people...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U54	It's good for you to understand. What are you asking? [[I. Gräzini's appeal from the floor.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U55	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Rules of Procedure do not provide for such a ping-pong debate. As everyone will be able to ask an oral question during the debate on this item, please ask Mr Purgal next.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U56	Thank you, good manager. My question to the waitress is as follows. You repeatedly referred to Aivar Sõerd, from which we can conclude that he did something wrong, something inappropriate, something unethical. Can you specify what these things are, what you are accusing Aivar Sõerd of, or why this chain of events has arisen here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U57	Thank you, good questioner! At the meeting of the Commission on 13 February, this topic was raised and representatives of the coalition proposed that the Commission draw up an amendment to remove Lauri Luik from the Gambling Tax Council and appoint Mikhail Stalnukhin as a member in his place. The appointment of the members of the Governing Council in accordance with agreed practices was explained. The current situation is that Aivar Sõerd remains a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund and is replaced by a member of the Gambling Tax Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U58	A procedural question, Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U59	President-in-Office of the Council. The last question that Igor Gräzin asked the waitress went a little bit into ping-pong, but you still intervened too soon. The waitress was just about to give us a very exciting answer, but you took that opportunity away from her. Why don't you give him that chance back, rewind the time by one question, and he can still answer Igor? We'd like to hear that answer. He just began to make such a beautiful wording, and it was almost done, the first word had already been said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U60	If I cut someone off tactlessly, I am, of course, sorry, but we do not have the possibility that the waitress would answer the procedural question. However, when a good colleague, Peeter Ernits, gives the rapporteur the opportunity to continue to answer Mr Gräzin's question and, if the rapporteur has such a wish, he can do so. The question is Peter Ernits. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U61	Good manager! Good waitress! I don't remember discussing good or bad customs or practices in the past. My colleague Aivar Sõerd is an intelligent person, he plays the organ, and I think he has good manners. Why, then, does he not adhere to good practices? [[???Aivar Sõerd saalist: 'Tema ei tea, mis need on.'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U62	Thank you, good questioner! I don't know what to tell you about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U63	Next Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U64	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand that my penguin is a much more experienced person and understands what good practice is, as it turns out here. But I'm young and I'm green and I don't understand what good practice is. I repeat my benchmate's question: please explain for the sake of the verbatim report, what is this good practice against which has been mistaken?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U65	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sad that you don't know anything about good practice. That is the answer: I am sad that you know nothing about good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U66	In the debate on this item, everyone will be able to ask an oral question. No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! As you can see, the representatives of the political groups have a desire to negotiate. First, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Free Party of Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U67	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Last spring, we together appointed six members to the Gambling Tax Council. The Riigikogu has the right to appoint six members. And if there are six political groups in the Riigikogu, what would make more sense than every political group having one representative there? For reasons that I did not understand, the Reform Party then insisted that they have two representatives there. This was completely incomprehensible, because this Council has so far worked by consensus and decisions have not been taken by voting there. So there is no political justification for the excess of the coalition in this Council either. Now we have before us a bill that states that there will be two representatives of the Centre Party and none at the Reform Party. A wise person does not step on one rake twice and does not go into the same trap twice. Sorry, guys, we're being fooled right now! We are all in an argument between the Reform Party and the Centre Party, and we have been made accomplices to this bizarre dispute and incomprehensible decision. The Free Party does not want to do so, and we do not support such a decision. We are against this decision. I also call on other members of the Group of the Group of the Alliance of the Fatherland and Res Publica, especially the Socialists, not to bring this bad game and this foolishness into play. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U68	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Centre Party Group, Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a pleasant task for myself to express my love to you, absolutely everyone, including the Reform Party. You're all great people, and my personal relationship with most of you is perfectly perfect. I'm sorry in advance, of course, but anyone who's ever kept a dog has happened like this when the dog's still small. You come home and your slippers are lying there, torn into ten pieces. He sits, black and hairy, and looks blue-eyed at you like he said it wasn't him. Then who was it? He doesn't realize the apartment was empty. He looks you in the eye, and he explains that a cat jumped through here and tore up his slippers. Doesn't that remind you of what's going on here? The Guarantee Fund Act states precisely that there must be two members of the Riigikogu, one of the coalition and one of the opposition. How do you even know there are two terms? If there are two of them, is it possible that both of them are oppositionists? Give me examples of when it's been like this somewhere! There hasn't been such a thing. And here's the question. We all understand perfectly what a coalition is. The coalition is the gang with the majority votes. On this basis, committees will be set up afterwards. On this basis, all the councils in which we work and want to benefit both the country and our region. When the coalition changes, the proportions change. You were in the majority and you belonged to so many places, now you're outnumbered and you must have a different number of places. We do not argue that the chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control was Mr Jürgen Ligi. It is a pity of the Commission, of course, but we will not say a word against it, because you have put it in place. The Centre Party will replace the Reform Party, the Reform Party will replace the Centre Party. But why is there a problem here? I had no joy at all when the chairman of my group informed me that you are now going to the Board of the Guarantee Fund. I was frustrated. This Council, if you look at the minutes, meets three or four times a year. I've been looking at these protocols. At one meeting they are discussing who to be an auditor, at the last meeting they are discussing the work of that auditor, in the meantime there are meetings on which there is nothing in the minutes. I'd rather work where there's real life. But I didn't argue. If it's the Guarantee Fund, it's the Guarantee Fund. Although I am about to say that Aivar Sõerd is a much better specialist in finance than I am. No one will argue with that. And then the question arises as to whether good practices exist or whether one person can break all the rules that have been developed here over the decades. In my opinion, this must not be allowed by the honourable collective that we are here. This isn't what it sounded like, revenge. You have exactly as many places as you've been assigned. Instead of the place of the Gambling Tax Council, you just now have a seat in the Board of the Guarantee Fund. This isn't a punitive act. What if the former minister came to his former ministry and tried to give the order, but told him that, unfortunately, this was not possible? Would that be a punitive act? Would that be so? So there's the law of energy survival: if one place decreases, then another place has to increase. If you're gonna fight it, you're some kind of... I don't have the right word for it, but that's medieval thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U70	Next on behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that if, in a hundred years' time, these verbatim records were to be read, and if, at the time, no one has noticed what they are dealing with, they would probably think that the ally was holding a meeting, discussing a common fund or something. I mean, it's kind of like we have a tradition, we had an agreement that you'd get it, and I'd get it, and if there were any problems, we'd break the legs and I don't know what else. By the way, it's not revenge, it's good practice! It's pretty awful. Einar and Mikhail, read your texts and think about where you are and what is the responsibility you really have. It is all the funnier that Aivar Sõerdi's decision, as Einar said, is passed on to his party or gang, than to the way these men think. If Aivar decided so, vengeance will come to the entire family. We have two funds, or rather one fund board and the other one tax board. A little bit of them now. Gambling tax on the Council has probably been a little silly, but it hasn't happened with the majority. If there have really been two members of one party, of which I had no idea, it is too much, enough of one. If there are six members, it is natural that there would be one member of all six political parties. I could have accepted that. The second calculation option would have been that this distribution was made in proportion so that the largest group would have received 30%, etc. Maybe that's what it was about, I don't know. This mistake could be corrected. But this is a direct fund-sharing board that we are talking about right now. I do not think it is necessary for the Council; there is no need for a single tax board. I've been consistent with it. The previous government, as I mentioned in my question, was, in my opinion, already deciding that there was no need for a single tax council and such a struggle around it. This tax is highly unstable and could be incorporated into the activities of another fund. The Guarantee Fund is a completely different matter. I was under the law of the Guarantee Fund, as was Eiki Nestor. We've both been there as members of the coalition because we understand what's going on there. We didn't take it as some underworld sausage distribution, so if you get one thing, you're gonna have to give it to the other in return. This is a very specific area and Mikhail is rightly self-critical when he says he doesn't understand anything about what's going on there. It's not his calling, it's just a little bit of cash, and that's why it's nice to go there, but there's still got to be a financial background that Mikhail doesn't have, and that's the problem. What else is the difference between these Soviets? The Guarantee Fund Act says that this is a very large fund, such a macro-fund, if you could say so, whose members of the Council have a certain legal guarantee that they will not be eliminated from there, they do not have a party role there. It is not about sharing money; it is about financial stability, which must be dealt with by financial people. How Aivar decides, I don't know, but it's not a party decision. Once again, it is very stupid to turn this debate here into party, family or intergalactic sausage sharing, as has happened today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U72	I would like to point out that only the representatives of the political groups can take the floor at the moment. A representative of the Centre Party Group has already received the floor. Do the other groups have a wish for a word? No, it's not. Then I'll close the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. It has been presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Is that what they want to vote for? Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U73	I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U74	Let us put this amendment to the vote. But before we go to the vote on the amendment, the procedural question is Mr Vitsut. Please, Thomas Vitsu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U75	Thank you, Mr President. If you put an amendment to the vote, should you not say what amendment you put to the vote and what its content is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U76	Thank you. If I put an amendment to the vote, which I hope I can do now, I will say the number of this amendment, which is the author of this amendment and also the position of the lead committee, as it is envisaged. This amendment, I am quite sure, has also been made available to you on paper. I would remind you that during the debate, Mr Vallbaum, when answering the questions, pointed out what this amendment was about. There are no further procedural questions. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The position of the lead committee is to take full account of it. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, with 28 abstentions. The proposal was supported. We have examined the amendment. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 366. I will put to the final vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Announcement of Members of the Gambling Tax Board' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs 366. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 26 against and 2 abstentions. Draft 366 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U77	Today's second item is the first reading of the bill 377 of the Riigikogu's decision "Appointing the Deputy Chancellor-Advisor of Justice' presented by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. I will present to you the procedure for dealing with this item. First there is a presentation by the representative of the commission (up to 20 minutes), followed by questions, then there is a candidate's presentation (up to five minutes), followed by questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the rapporteurs. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. There will then be a final vote, which will be secret under the Rules of Procedure Act. I would like to ask for a presentation of a chair by a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a presentation by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to present draft decision 377. We are going to have two drafts similar in substance and form, but since they are personal, it is natural that their nature is slightly different. Ladies first, I will introduce Heili Seppa, the deputy advisor to the Chancellor of Justice first. On 7 February 2017, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs addressed this issue. Ken-Marti Vaher was the chair of the committee and Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits were members of the committee. I will not bring it out later, but all the decisions have been taken in a consensual manner. There were no members of the Commission, Kalle Laane and Lauri Luik. At the meeting of the Commission, Mr Elle Eneveer, the Chairman of the Secretary-General of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the advisers Karin Tuulik and Kristo Varend, and, as a result of § 37 (1) of the Chancellor of Justice Act, the candidates for this draft, Ülle Madise, as well as the Deputy Advisers and Advisers of the Chancellor of Justice, Heili Sepp and Olari Koppel, participated. Ülle Madise explained the reasons behind the draft and the reasons why it is now necessary to appoint the Deputy Chancellor of Justice's advisors, also why these candidates were nominated, as well as the suitability of Heili Sepa for this appointment and the reasons why he was nominated. Ülle Madise resummed that this was the most practical and even the best candidate in the world. It follows from the law of the Chancellor of Justice that the Chancellor of Justice must have two deputy advisors, who must be chosen from among the advisers of the Chancellor of Justice who are already working. They must have academic higher education and long-term public service or academic career, they must have carried out security checks and they must have access to state secrets. Heili Sepp, candidate for the Deputy Chancellor of Justice-adviser, meets the above requirements. He works in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice as Head of the Legal Order Protection Department as of June 2015. He has worked in several other places in the public service: as a prosecutor, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Justice and Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure. He's got a lot of higher education. I am pleased to say that both candidates have graduated from the university cum laude and also from high school they have graduated with a gold medal. Heili Sepp participates in a number of activities in the non-profit sector and is currently continuing his studies of law in doctoral studies. The candidate is one of the most influential people of the Chancellor of Justice's office, which is why the Chancellor of Justice has nominated him as Deputy Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise told the Commission that, in the light of the idea behind the reform of the state, he is proposing to appoint people who are already leading the important departments as deputy advisors. Heili Sepp performs the duties of Head of the Legal Order Protection Department and, in addition, carries out the tasks of monitoring the discreet collection and processing of personal data, participates in the work of the Court Administration Advisory Board and directs the disciplinary liability of judges. He is also in the role of counseling other colleagues because of his long-standing experience. One of the most important questions raised in the committee's discussion was whether a person should be appointed to this office by the Riigikogu. Mart Nutt, Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Jaak Madison and Helmut Hallemaa spoke in different forms on this subject. The Chancellor of Justice's answers were largely such that different options were possible. As the supreme legislative body of the Riigikogu, this is the way it has been decided. The major discussion on this issue was during the VIII Riigikogu and this was agreed after a longer discussion. I am quite convinced that Jüri Adams, who will be present on the next item, will address this issue. I myself asked the Chancellor of Justice of the Commission whether he felt that this made it more important for him, his office and their candidates, or their deputy advisors, when they were appointed by the Riigikogu. I got the answer from the Chancellor of Justice that this is actually the case. I myself believe that it is right that the leaders of such an important body are before us and can present their views here, and we can take a position on their appointment. Why do both deputy advisors need to be appointed right now? The Office of the Chancellor of Justice has undergone changes and both deputies have changed their positions. Nele Parrest has been appointed a member of the Supreme Court and Hent Kalmo continues his studies in the United States. He will continue to do the counsellor's work, but it is simply not possible to be the deputy counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice when he is in the United States. The committee decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote, i.e. to vote on the appointment of the candidate as Deputy Chancellor-Advisor. It was also decided to appoint me as rapporteur and, in accordance with § 117 (3) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, to propose to Heili Sepale, the candidate for the Deputy Chancellor of Justice, to make a presentation before the Riigikogu's plenary session for up to five minutes. This was a summary of the debate in the Commission. We have a proposal to put this draft to the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U79	There are questions for the waitress. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U80	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! You used the expression Ladies first in your introductory speech. Maybe you can explain for the sake of the verbatim, what did you mean by that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U81	In fact, all I meant was that we are dealing with two people on two agenda items, whom we call deputy advisors to the Chancellor of Justice. Heili Sepp is a lady, a woman, and the other candidate is a man. On the agenda, these drafts are in this order. One is 377 OE, which deals with the appointment of Heili Sepa, and the other is 378 OE, which concerns the appointment of the Second Deputy Adviser to the Chancellor of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U82	No further questions. Thank you very much to the honourable waitress. I would like a presentation from Heili Sepa, Deputy Chancellor of Justice of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I sincerely thank you for this opportunity to speak before you, and I also thank you for these very interesting conversations in the political groups that I was able to have. I would be very pleased if you would agree with the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Above all, this would be very good for the peace of work at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice himself is, of course, only one. He has a very important and uniquely independent role in defending constitutionality in Estonia. All the rest of us who work in that house, me too, are only there to help him. In this sense, too, the Deputy Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice can never actually take the place of the Chancellor of Justice. This is one of the reasons why I consider it to be very reasonable for the Chancellor of Justice to think that he will not take on the post of deputy advisors as he has sometimes been, but will appoint this person from among the available staff. I am very glad that I can continue my work so far. My own day tomorrow doesn't really differ very much from my day today. I can assure you that I will continue my day-to-day work, which is mostly about running the law department, very carefully and heartily. I will make sure that the opinions of the Chancellor of Justice, which our department is involved in, are wise, comprehensive and in human language. It is a wide range of topics, ranging from a very topical issue of administrative reform to a hidden collection of personal data, in fact to monitoring it. I value the opportunity to contribute to this discussion during the work on the interaction and relationship between the security argument and the guarantee of fundamental rights. I am sincerely pleased that we have just the right Chancellor of Justice, which we now have, on this subject, the discussions that have already taken place and will take place in the future. There are no other issues far from these issues, which are very close to my heart: the fundamental right to privacy, freedom of expression, data protection, as well as transparency of state authority. I'm sure I'd like to bet on dealing with them. In a few days, I will be filled with 20 years of permanent work as a state official of the Republic of Estonia. There is nothing more natural for me than to serve the Estonian state. In doing so, I have always left my personal interests and comfort in the background. Regardless of my position, I have always done my job according to my conscience and my best understanding and on the basis of the Constitution and laws of the Republic of Estonia, and I will continue to do so. In my work, I have tried to keep the sense of statesmanship and justice in mind, and I will continue to strive for it. It's not all exact science, as I'm sure you know very well, but I assure you, I will do my best. I feel today that the best way to continue the service and to apply my experience would be to be present at the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice. Thank you very much for listening. If you have any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U84	Thank you. You have questions. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U85	Thank you. At the beginning of the presentation, you said, Mrs Sepp, that the Office of the Chancellor of Justice will have problems with domestic peace without you. Ülle Madise is a very peaceful person. Is it a question of your identity, or what would change if you weren't elected to this place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U86	As far as I know, I didn't say peace at home. I said peace at work. Did I really say peace of mind? Then I'm sorry! [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Töörahu!'???]] This is because, as you know, one of the deputy advisors of the Chancellor of Justice went to work for the Supreme Court a long time ago, while the other has been quite abroad for the sake of his studies. The person who replaces Ülle, for example, while he is on vacation, if he really wants to go, has often raised questions in our house. It has been such a constant debate, but now this debate will simply end.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U87	Andres Herkel next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable candidate! I would like to take this opportunity to continue the debate that we had in the group with you on the issue of changing the self-governance of villages. It has emerged sharply in the course of the administrative reform in Pukas, Amblas, Sauga and many other places. How do you assess the mechanism for resolving this issue, especially its legal clarity? There are a number of laws related to this: the Administrative Reform Act, the Administrative Division of Estonian Territory Act, KOKS. What is their interaction, and have local governments acted according to laws and good communication practices when solving these appeals? You have also received requests, specifically from the Puka municipality, and answers have come to them. There's probably gonna be more of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U89	Thank you for your question. This really concerns a very sensitive subject. I agree with you that this whole reform is regulated by a quite a set of legislation. Combining these norms is a big piece of work, it's a big piece of work in our house as well. We have been determined to choose our staff for this, so we have a very good new advisor who will specifically deal with these issues. Yes, we have been approached, and we have given different answers. Sometimes we have really found that we can make recommendations on how to do better in the future, but there have also been cases when we have found that the best remedy is a court, or we have simply provided explanations. We will certainly continue to answer these questions and we will also wait for the questions of the members of the Riigikogu if you have them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U90	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. I would stress that the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act did not allow any amendments to this draft. The commission's proposal is to put draft 377 to the final vote and we will go to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, before I put this draft to the vote, I would remind you that this is a secret vote. Almost every time there is a secret vote, it is astonishing that the voting board does not show the result of your own vote. All of this, I assure you, is just as it should be, your remotes are not broken. But now I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the appointment of the "Deputy Chancellor of Justice-Advisor" 376. Please take a stand and vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U91	Today's third and last item is the first reading of bill 378 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Appointing the Deputy Advisor-Advisor to the Chancellor of Justice' presented by Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise. The procedure for processing this item is exactly the same as the procedure for processing the previous item. Do the members of the Riigikogu want me to repeat this explanation? No, it's not. In that case, I would like to ask for the presentation of the Chair by Jüri Adams, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, without further delay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U92	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The post of Deputy Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice has been in place a long time ago. In 1993, the First Chancellor of Justice Act provided for one such post, and the New Act, which has entered into force on 1 June 1999, and which is still in force until now, provides for up to two such posts. The first performer of this post was Aare Reenumägi, appointed during the Eerik-Juhan Truuvälja. When two of these places were formed, the next person in this position was Enn Markvart. As the previous rapporteur said, these posts are now vacant and the Chancellor of Justice has proposed that we fill these seats and give the two members of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice the status of Deputy Advisor. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this proposal by the Chancellor of Justice at its meeting on 7 February. We have heard the Chancellor of Justice's explanation as to why he believes that it is necessary and appropriate to appoint Olari Koppel to this office. I will not repeat these explanations because they are fully available to you in the draft explanatory memorandum. In the committee, no one expressed the opinion that Olari Koppel, who is currently the director of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice and before that, worked as the head of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, established by the decision of the President. No one called for a vote, and so is the Commission's proposal to put this issue to the final vote in this Chamber today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U93	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. The first questioner is Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U94	Honourable President! Dear colleague Jüri! I apologize in advance for a bit of a vulgar question, but human curiosity forces us to ask. Does this change of status lead to the person you are presenting and to the person we have just voted on the salary increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U95	Thank you for your question. We didn't discuss it directly in the Commission, but before I got here, I asked my assistants to see if that was the case. Looks like it's really like that. If we call someone's deputy advisor, he's going to get one step higher pay, the limit for this grade is EUR 2900.4000 a month. Exactly how much this salary is, the Chancellor of Justice will decide for himself. It may also be added that in the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, as I understand it, most of the accomplished workers receive various bonuses ranging from a few hundred euros to perhaps 1500 euros. So about the salary that is reasonable in the current Estonian wage practice should be guaranteed for these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U96	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U97	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In the debate on the previous item, it was briefly mentioned that the Commission discussed whether the Deputy Chancellor of Justice should be appointed by the Riigikogu or by someone else, and that this had been discussed earlier. But I'm gonna ask you from a different angle. Should there be such positions in this form at all? I do not recall that we have appointed, for example, the Deputy Auditor General or so here. Is such an institution absolutely necessary? Perhaps this issue should be resolved differently within the constitutional institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U98	Thank you for your question. I think I've been talking in this chair over a number of years about various drafts amending the Chancellor of Justice's law. I must admit that I cannot now recall any of the reasons that were raised in my time, in 1993 or later, for the need for this post. Probably had them, but I'm not informed of them right now. My own opinion has changed greatly over time. I was definitely in favour of this post once. At the moment, however, I think that the general principle in the logic of administrative law in European countries is that a leader should never be absent in this type of institution. This means that if anything should happen to the driver, someone who is under his command will automatically be given command and signature authority. From this point of view, I believe that the post of deputy is not very necessary or not necessary at all. It was said that there were discussions on this in the Commission. This isn't very right. We didn't get into that question. Since 1993, there has been a certain habit and practice. I did express this view that the office of the Chancellor of Justice could work in complete peace with just as much effectiveness without their posts. However, these posts are certainly not an obstacle to this agency being able to work as well as possible. We have developed this practice and there is no clear reason to change it at this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U99	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Jüri Adams, rapporteur for the Commission. My question continues with the previous question and the previous answer. Is there any way you can comment on the theory that there might be a situation where the Chancellor of Justice is not fulfilling his role? Will these deputy advisors be transferred to all the roles, functions and representation rights of the Chancellor of Justice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U101	Yes, of course, legally, but it's within certain reasonable limits. The Chancellor of Justice has expressed his opinion to us that during his term of office he is trying to organise work in such a way that his deputy advisor should never have to take full responsibility for his duties. This also means that the Chancellor of Justice will probably refrain from taking longer leave. When could there be a situation, apart from the leave, where the deputy advisor should begin to perform the duties of Chancellor of Justice? There may be some reasons not dependent on the Chancellor of Justice, such as an accident, etc. The law provides that this replacement is relatively temporary, as the mechanism for finding and appointing a new Chancellor of Justice should be activated as soon as such situation arises. However, the Chancellor of Justice will probably have to make a decision and determine, in a forward-looking way, the so-called priority order of the two deputy advisors, which is the first and which is the second deputy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U102	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I ask for a presentation of Olari Koppel, candidate for the Deputy Chancellor of Justice of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U103	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. As we have heard many times here, the law of the Chancellor of Justice provides that he has the right and also the obligation to appoint two deputies to be appointed by the Riigikogu. Of course, this raises a reasoned question about the organisation, tasks and division of responsibilities of the Chancellor of Justice. After all, the Chancellor of Justice is a sole and independent constitutional institution whose responsibilities cannot be separated and who can only pass on his or her duties to someone else in a very limited and legally permissible manner. But do you know, for example, that according to the law, only the Chancellor of Justice can personally send a letter to a member of the Riigikogu? Not only on substantive but also on purely formal issues. Yes, it is admitted that in the absence of the Chancellor of Justice, this letter may also be sent by the Deputy Chancellor of Justice. That's where my personal experience comes from correspondence with this house. The same applies to the constitutional right of the Chancellor of Justice to attend the session of the Government of the Republic. However, if the Chancellor of Justice is on a mission and does not have a deputy, no one from the Chancellor of Justice's office will be allowed into the Chamber of the Government. That is why the Chancellor of Justice needs a deputy, a person who ensures the operational movement of the information necessary for his work even during the period of the Chancellor of Justice's leave, secondment or temporary incapacity. In other respects, the deputies are just ordinary employees of the Chancellor of Justice. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise offers an innovation here. In the past, the deputies formed a single layer of management within the office structure, the layers being the Chancellor of Justice, the deputies and the heads of department, and now this one layer disappears. When I speak of myself, I will, of course, continue as Head of Administration, or Director of the Office. I mean, it's my first and daily job. I am a deputy in these rare cases when the Chancellor of Justice does not perform his duties. I consider this to be a very reasonable and, in some ways, also a sustainable solution. Let us be honest, that is the main reason why I agreed at all when the Chancellor of Justice approached me with this proposal. I am very pleased that I have been able to meet with the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and members of several political groups in recent weeks. I was able to talk, yes, about myself, but more importantly, I was able to talk about the work of the Chancellor of Justice's office, and even more importantly, I was talking about the things and problems that seem important to you, but above all to all people in Estonia, and where the office of Chancellor of Justice can provide answers and solutions. In summing up, I assure you that my appointment as Deputy Chancellor of Justice will in no way dispel the power and responsibility of Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madis. Rather, it will help him to exercise power and assume responsibility even more effectively, which is why, good Riigikogu, I am counting on your support. I'd be happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U104	Thank you. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions? No, it's not. It is. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U105	Thank you, dear waitress. You started convincing us by giving a practical example that in the absence of the Chancellor of Justice, you cannot send a letter to a member of the Riigikogu. Don't you think the office really doesn't need that right? It would rather be symbolically beautiful if the Chancellor of Justice himself would sign his letters to the members of the Riigikogu. We have, in particular, negative experience with the Prime Minister's office, where officials are put in place to answer political questions instead of the Prime Minister. Did you think that was a good example of what you brought?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U106	I think that my example was certainly adequate in the context of this case, which I will describe to you next. As you know, the Chancellor of Justice will present his report to you every autumn. This requires that certain procedural issues be resolved in advance, such as when they could do so and when there will be time on the Riigikogu agenda. This preparation begins somewhat earlier. Last summer, when Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise was on holiday, I wrote a letter to the Board of the Riigikogu asking if it would be possible for the Chancellor of Justice to have his regular report for up to 20 minutes on this and that date, it was probably September 17. An hour later, I received feedback from the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that I should not send such a letter and that such a letter does not exist. I was asked to wait until the Chancellor of Justice returned from his vacation so that he could sign this letter himself. It's practical.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U107	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Indeed, there is a major problem with sending letters. Tonight, you see, Aivar Chef sent out a letter on behalf of Eiki Nestor and a lot of crap. But my question to you is this. The government is about to decide that the county governor's institution will be dissolved as such. The mayor is currently supervising local governments. What is your opinion on how best to carry out this monitoring in the future? Don't you think the role of Chancellor of Justice would increase in this regard too?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U109	Thank you. I believe that we will come to a practical solution when decisions have been made. It can be assumed that if something is eliminated or lost, something will be offered instead. The Chancellor of Justice will assess whether the supervisory function proposed is sufficient. Since the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice is already supervising the legislation of local governments to some extent, it can indeed be predicted that the volume of this work may increase in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-16_U110	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. Due to the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, no amendments to this draft could be tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 378. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Appointing the Deputy Chancellor-Advisor' 378. Please take a stand and vote. 36 members of the Riigikogu with 15 votes against and 2 abstentions. Draft 378 has been adopted as a decision. Dear colleagues, today's agenda has been exhausted. Have a nice working week, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 11.27 a.m.
