ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 16th working week of the V plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U2	The draft decision concerns the appointment of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Group, which oversees the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation. As you know, according to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, the task of the Joint Parliamentary Review Group is to exercise political control over Europol's activities in the performance of its tasks, to discuss the budgetary aspects of Europol's activities at meetings, to discuss at least once a year general issues relating to Europol's activities, etc. The proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to appoint Raivo Aeg and Kalle Laane as members of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs has one draft law and one draft decision to deliver. The draft law concerns the amendment of the law on the grant of international protection to aliens. The purpose of the draft is to create the possibility of repealing the refugee status of an alien who is dangerous to Estonian society and of returning a person in a situation where an alien who has acquired refugee status has been punished for a deliberate criminal offence against a person or for a general criminal offence. The current regulation is not in accordance with Article 14 (4) (2) of Directive 2011/95/EC or Article 33 (2) of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, which provides that the conviction of a person in a particularly serious crime is not sufficient as a basis for the revocation of refugee status or for the expulsion of a refugee, but that a refugee must continue to pose a threat to society. Similarly, under the current law, it is not possible to withdraw refugee status or to withdraw or return from a foreign country if a particularly serious, second-degree crime or refugee is a threat to society. The proposed amendments ensure consistency with the aforementioned Directive and the Convention on the Status of Refugees and allow for a response to situations where an alien has committed a particularly serious crime and is a threat to society. So this is a bill that the Committee on Legal Affairs wants to hand over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U4	As representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U5	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today, the Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws. Firstly, the draft law approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft act ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U6	I have adopted four drafts on behalf of the Bureau, and we will process them under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are currently present at the plenary session. Now, from the agenda. May I have your attention, please? The Free Party Group has proposed that the agenda for the Tuesday session be amended as follows: the third item on the agenda, the sixth item on the draft 402 and the sixth item on the agenda, the third item on the draft 413. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U7	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. I have no complaints about this point, but I have a question: do you have any more messages or do I say my problem right now? I have concerns, namely, that we once again have a number of drafts on the agenda for which the Commission's position did not yet exist this morning. The Bureau has put them on the agenda in such a way that the lead committee has not yet discussed all the issues. Can we from now on ask the Bureau not to appoint drafts for the discussion of the large hall, which will not be discussed by the Commission on Monday?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U8	I believe that the Bureau will continue to draw up the agenda on the basis of the Commission's proposals on how we can do things differently. And the fact that, for example, by Tuesday or Wednesday, the items on which decisions are still to be taken on Monday are still in practice on the committees. I don't see anything weird here. Ultimately, the House will decide. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U9	Thank you, Mr. Nestor. Our practice is longer than average. We know these things will happen. The question is that at the moment this phenomenon is massive and the Riigikogu really loses track. We can't give that opportunity all the time. If there are a lot of such drafts, but we already have to take a stand, this is a new quality. Would it be possible for the Bureau, however, to draw the attention of the committees and this would be possible, by way of exception, rather than as a system as it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U10	From those times when I had the honour of being a Member of the Commission, I remember that it was often the case that the draft was tabled on the agenda for next week, with the decision whether or not to terminate the second reading of the draft or what to do with the draft being taken only on Monday. The Riigikogu has had quite a lot of this practice. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U11	Thank you. If there are exceptional cases, it is understandable. But we have, if I remember correctly, points 7, 8, 9 and 10. For example, the same item No 10 on the Wednesday agenda, or the draft amendment of the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. There was an amendment made by the coalition this morning, which the Commission discussed and for which Riigikogu members could not prepare in any way, but on Wednesday we will discuss it in the Chamber. If you look at the number of such drafts, this is not normal practice. We didn't have time to talk about it in the elders' council today, even though that's what we wanted. But time's up. This is an issue that the board can focus on. The Bureau may draw the attention of the committee presidents to the fact that they do not put drafts on the agenda of the large hall, for which the Commission's position is unknown. Even this is unknown as to whether the Commission will decide to propose the termination of the second reading or not. We have a draft on the agenda that we do not have any information about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U12	Thank you. I shall pass it on to the chairmen of the Commission. But are there any comments on the changes to the agenda of the Free Party? Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U13	Thank you. I will continue, however, on this issue, which we have not been able to address comprehensively here. I am thinking of the same tenth point that is on the agenda on Wednesday and concerns the amendment to the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. There was an amendment by the Centre Party Group today to change the procedure for recalling a member of the Council in the Guarantee Fund Act. The Guarantee Fund Act, the amendment of which was introduced, has nothing to do with the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act. How can we vote on this amendment to the Estonian Central Register of Securities Act on Wednesday? These are completely different things that are put together there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U14	The assembly will be able to vote on this amendment. Are there any protests about the improvements to the agenda proposed by the Free Party? No, it's not. The Committee on the Environment has proposed to remove the fourth item from the agenda of this working week's Wednesday session, which is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Principles of Earthyard Policy 2050' presented by the Government of the Republic. Does Jürgen Ligi have any comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U15	I have to say with regard to the previous remark that when we were here discussing whether or not these tax laws are a cluster bill, you were angry at the view that this is one of the strains around which things are related to the Income Tax Act. It is a fact that, from the point of view of processing, it is a cluster, a overburdened bill, which would require much more time than we have to argue over many paragraphs. In the present case, this change referred to by Aivar Sõerd does not contain such a strain. The Estonian Central Register of Securities Act is accompanied by a completely arbitrary amendment to the Guarantee Fund Act. This amendment is not related to the law of this central register, it is an outsider. Here, I do not think it is right for the board to say that do what you want, if you do not want to do, do not. Could still hold some kind of political culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U16	I agree that, in general, when the draft deals with forests and mountains, there should be no improvement on rivers and lakes. I agree with that principle. No one has any comments on the proposal of the Committee on the Environment. The Monetary Commission has proposed to remove the ninth item from the agenda of the Wednesday sitting, which is the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on funded pensions and the Law on Investment Funds, initiated by the Government of the Republic. No one has any protests about this either. Honourable Riigikogu, along with the improvements tabled by the Free Party Group, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will vote on the agenda of the 16th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 72 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the agenda, with 7 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U17	Questions by order of business. The first question is presented by Maris Lauri, Jüri Jaanson, Arto Asa, Kalle Laaneti, Lauri Luige, Remo Holsmer, Liina Kersna, Terje Trei, Kristen Michali, Heidy Purga, Kalle Palling and Laine Randjärve. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U18	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party Group submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection on 12 April. This concerns the problem in the area of social security. In fact, the press revealed that the money for rehabilitation came to an end in two weeks at the beginning of this year, leaving people without support and services. New people in need are not taken to rehabilitation and care services because they are out of money. This means that people will only be able to re-order the service at the beginning of next year. As of early April, 780 people were waiting for rehabilitation services, 403 of them children and 191 pensioners over 63 years of age. The availability of rehabilitation services for children is particularly important. Children are developing and can significantly improve their livelihood if they start as early as possible. The fact that children in need of service have been waiting in line is criminal and reckless. The fact that rehabilitation services cannot be obtained on an appropriate scale also undermines the reform of working capacity. Some health problems, such as 25,000 people with mental disorders, are essentially impossible to obtain support services. Nor can it be satisfied that the necessary financial resources refer to European Union money, because these amounts are not intended to be expenditures which are of a lasting nature. For such services, money must be found in the state's own revenues. Nor can it be accepted that money is taken at the expense of others for some groups in need of rehabilitation. As a result, the respondents had four questions for the Minister concerning budget planning, possible financial resources to cover the need for rehabilitation, as well as how future rehabilitation costs would be covered. We also ask for an assessment of why this situation has arisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U19	The question is answered by Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, about the social security crisis. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U20	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There are four questions. I will read out the question and then I will give you the answer to each question. The first question: 'Why did budget planning not take into account the experience and real need of previous years? " First, there is a need to clarify some details about the descriptive part of the inquiry. I would stress that in order to provide a social rehabilitation service, money was not run out, which has been wrongly claimed and repeated in their turn. At the beginning of this year, a total of just over 17000 people were able to book all available resources for the service-oriented and new year's service-oriented people, as service contracts are made for two years. This means that new applicants had to be put in line. But in the state budget, the necessary money is available for this service. The order of the rehabilitation service is not for the first time. On the contrary, the current order referred to at the beginning of April is about 800 people and, as of today, just over 400 people are many times shorter than in previous years. For example, in 2012 there were 9946 people, in 2013 there were 111314 people, in 2014 there were over 7,000 people, and in 2015 there were 9870 people. For the first time last year, the queues were eliminated for adults through an ex ante evaluation and an overall one-off supplement. One-off funding, however, is not sustainable for social services, so the problem is, above all, basic funding. I agree with the respondents that access to rehabilitation services for children is particularly important. When I was appointed, I also noted that children, quick to notice their need for help and effective intervention, are my priorities. The priority is to allocate additional funds specifically for the provision of services to children and there are currently no children in line at the Social Insurance Board. Inquiries have estimated that being in line for children is criminal and reckless. It can be seen that the members of the Reform Party have subsequently reached this understanding after leaving power. For example, in 2011, when the Minister of Social Affairs was current chairman of the Reform Party, there were 1935 children in line. In 2013, when the Minister of Social Affairs was the previous chairman of the Reform Party, 1966 children were in line. The number of children in the order you referred to in April 403 is, fortunately, much lower. For the sake of factual accuracy, I note that children are still waiting for a particular service provider, but this is not due to a lack of money. It was noted that the limitation of rehabilitation services undermines the reform of working capacity. I recall that the rehabilitation service for people of working age is primarily provided by the unemployment fund, where there is no problem in financing the service. Since the assumption that people of working age will receive services from the unemployment fund did not materialise in full, we are now using ESF support to finance the service of people of working age in the Social Insurance Board. As should be known to all members of the Riigikogu, including heirs, additional requests from the state budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs have not always been satisfied. In 2016, for the first time and with the support of one-off additional money, the queue was eliminated. Changes began earlier within the system and important changes to the Social Welfare Act came into force last year. I would point out that § 64 of the Act provides that in the event of a lack of budget resources, those wishing to receive a rehabilitation service are to be counted in a queue which may be up to one year. That's what the law says. During the preparation and adoption of this amendment of the law, the government was also led by the party of the heirs. In accordance with the regulations in the Act, the Social Insurance Board also informed clients at the beginning of the year. Understandably, this situation does not satisfy us. We consider it a priority for children to receive the necessary services immediately and for other people to be provided with assistance as quickly and effectively as possible. However, I would stress that we cannot expect that there will never be a queue to receive services. Some changes can also be made within the service organisation. The system needs to remove the use of inefficient services, such as spa-like passive services. Excessive planning and expenditure on ancillary activities must also be avoided. Quality and control over the volume of services actually provided are also important, but more attention needs to be paid to the provision of support services in the education system. All of them together form a whole. This year, on the basis of the first quarter's expenditure, we have planned budget changes that currently allow new customers to be redirected to the service. There are 64 persons with mental illness and 374 other persons of adult age in the rehabilitation order. There's no order under 16. The Social Insurance Board is actively engaged in finding opportunities for savings within the system. The Social Insurance Board has also forwarded its analysis and proposals to the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. However, it is clear that internal savings alone are not enough, there is a need to increase the basic funding. It has been agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the basic funding will be reviewed in all areas following an analysis and an assessment of the impact of possible changes. The second question: "Where are the additional funds to cover the need for rehabilitation this year? When, in particular, will these funds be channelled to cover the costs of rehabilitation services? ' This year's plan is to use two sources of additional funding. Firstly, we are allocating EUR 1 million from the European Social Fund to the funding of the rehabilitation service system. Secondly, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, we are planning budget changes in order to keep service queues to a minimum. Planning and negotiations are ongoing in this regard. Question 3: "To what extent, including financial, is the rehabilitation costs planned next year? Which sources? ' On the basis of the forecast drawn up by the Social Insurance Board, we submitted an additional request for an additional EUR 3.05 million from the state budget for the following year in order to increase the basic budget. The State Budget Act fixed a one-off additional financing. This means that, unfortunately, the basic budget would not increase according to it. However, as I said, it has been agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the basic funding will be reviewed after an analysis by the Social Insurance Board and an assessment of the impact of possible changes. The possible use of ESF funds next year will be reviewed at the end of the year when it is clear how many people of working age will be able to receive the Social Insurance Board's rehabilitation service. Question 4: 'A budget failure of this magnitude could only be the result of very poor planning. Does the minister admit to his own fault or his predecessor's? " When I answered the first question, I gave an overview of the order of rehabilitation services in previous years. Obviously, it is understood that budget failure and the very poor planning referred to have been very serious problems for many years. Perhaps there is a more general question as to why there are insufficient resources in the state budget and why there is not enough in the social sector. One might think that a situation where there is not enough money in the social field has unfortunately led to the feeling that this is a normal situation. The money will probably never be enough, but we have to get this far, and I believe we will also reach the point that the quality of the data set is reliable, the forecasts based on it are justified and proactive. I see positive changes here in both the Social Insurance Board and the cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Social Insurance Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U21	Questions for the Minister. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U22	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned that the analysis would be carried out. Who's gonna do this analysis, and when will it hopefully be finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U23	This is what the Social Insurance Board is doing now. The first conclusions have been drawn in this regard. We have negotiated the necessary changes with the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, we have discussed the matter within the Ministry, and we will soon also present proposals for changes within the system to the Social Affairs Committee. Today, negotiations are taking place with the Ministry of Finance and we intend to continue to do so, so that things are clear. We'll come back to this matter until it's quite clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U24	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will take this opportunity to continue our discussion two weeks ago on the quite close question of the Free Party. Thank you, too, for the written reply you sent me. But in order to keep this subject echoing, I ask once again whether there is a risk that, for example, people with intellectual disabilities who need a 24/7 service will be transferred to the so-called community service even if they do not actually have the prerequisites for doing so. People have received alarming signals about this, and this 'deinstitutionalisation' scares them. It's not gonna be like this in a pioneering way, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U26	Thank you for that question. I am happy to confirm what we talked about briefly last time and what has really misunderstood some processes. I guess I'll have to talk about it again and I'll be happy to do it. There must be no hurray transfer to community service and there will be no such transfer. Currently, it has been estimated that in replacement homes that have so far operated and have 24-hour care, approximately 20% of those who could live more independently without needing a 24-hour service for adequate supporting services. They could be community service. Understandably, these people, if they have been in 24 hours care for years, need to be trained before this change is made and to be helped to live in a new situation. This must certainly be guaranteed. If there is a case like this, it cannot be ruled out that it must be proposed that this decision has not justified itself, then a decision must be made and the needs of a particular person must still be taken into account. Now, one more little explanation. Last time, there was a slight confusion that these targets had been taken from the development plan, the share of 24/7 services and the share of supporting services. According to this indicator, the share of 24/7 services was expected to disappear. No, the other way around. The number of so-called lighter services is increasing and has increased quite a lot in the last four years. The aim of the next project round is to increase the proportion of supporting services that help people to cope as much as possible when living at home or in the community. Such services are simply provided more. So there is no such hurricane shift from 24 hours a day to 24 hours a day, and now a new round is creating the possibility of making more special care places around the clock. So I'm sure there'll be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U27	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that support services in the field of education also need to be improved. True, that's true. My question is: what role do you, as Minister for Social Protection, find that support services in our education are well available?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U29	This is one of the areas where cooperation between ministries and ministers must be good. It must be seen together what the effects of support services are. I know from the practice of my previous work and I see now that if there is no logo beet in the education system, in school and kindergarten, there is no social pedagogy, it will immediately increase the pressure on rehabilitation through the Social Insurance Board. And that's perfectly understandable. If there's a hole anywhere, the pressure will fall elsewhere. It is currently planned to allocate additional funding from the state budget for the next year, which can be used both in schools and kindergartens to finance support services. But there is a wider problem in this area: there is not enough specialists. There is a great need for their training. It is therefore clear that current professionals must be used responsibly. If there is a logo beet in one institution, then it is a waste if it has a logo beet on its side and half at the same time as an assistant teacher, etc. It is also worth looking at the situation and trying to implement support specialists in a sustainable and rational manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U30	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U31	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! I'll come back to the tip you made that the inquisitors were in the Prime Minister's party when this year's rehabilitation order was established. But at the time, however, it was intended to put people in the order of services on a regular basis. Inevitably, fewer services can be provided when people wishing to provide a particular service come along. It was certainly not meant that, in the event of a lack of money, all recipients of the service would, figuratively speaking, be pushed to the next financial year. But my question is this: what do you think is the order of the optimal rehabilitation service, given that the queues are actually inevitable?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U32	I completely agree that no one has thought that, in any case, people have to be in line for a year. Of course, neither the legislator nor anyone else understood it in the Chamber of the Riigikogu at the time. But I referred to this section of the law, which clearly states that in the event of a lack of budgetary resources, the person in need will be placed in the queue and this order may be up to a year long. In this sense, the Social Insurance Board acted as required by law. But an assessment of the length of the optimal or proper order, I'm not going to give as a minister. My hope is there's no queue. But if it arises for one reason or another, then the legislator's will is that it can be up to a year. Optimal may be that if at some point there is a greater urge for the service and its additional volumes have been used, it is possible to queue people at the end of the year. But as I have already said, the assumption should be that children get the first-order service. We are also going to carry out an ex-ante assessment of children. Right now we're planning it and we're coming up with it at some point. As has already been said, we are now spending money on rehabilitating plans even if there may not really be a need for a rehabilitation plan and the child does not go to rehabilitation. For example, it doesn't help with allergies. We are certainly working to clean up such a system so that we do not spend resources where it is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U33	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! As Minister for Social Protection, do you not be alarmed by the budgetary policy of the government, which is trying to disbalance the budget? And knowing that the work capacity reform has been very much launched with the support of European Union money and that we must have a concrete exit strategy, have you discussed in the government how much this exit strategy costs and where the replacement money comes from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U35	I would certainly be concerned if the budget were out of balance in the long term. However, as Minister for Social Protection, I am particularly concerned that the social sector does not have enough money. So I am certainly looking out for the social sector to be financed in the optimal way when it comes to providing services. However, you asked about the reform of working capacity. I understand that, as former Minister of State, this is a matter close to your heart. It is probably right to ask the minister responsible for this, but in general terms, the funding based on European Union funds is a long-term plan and so it has been put in place. The exit strategy depends quite a lot on what the next funding period for the European Union will be. At the moment, we know that Brexit is the cause of great uncertainty. So far, we have assumed that our funding will be around 60% of the current rate in the next period. It can also be assumed that in the next period, we will no longer be able to spend this money on concrete as much as on people. And this departure period will probably be longer than the current period.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U36	Thank you, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for a speech, I will close the debate on this item.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U37	The next item is the question on our agenda by the members of the Riigikogu Urve Tiidus, Maris Lauri, Terje Trei, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luik, Deniss Boroditš, Aivar Sõerd, Valdo Randpere, Madis Milling, Urmas Kruuse, Igor Gräzin and Hanno Pevkur. On behalf of the heirs, Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U38	Mr President, Members of the Riigikogu. Today, when the response has come to the question of taxes and health behaviour, the law on the taxation of sweetened beverages has passed the first reading in this Chamber, but the tax issues have not yet been exhausted. If we start rhetorically, I ask if life has really gotten too sweet, that we are going to start financing the Treasury for the sweet love of the people. Of course, we have all heard the saying that sugar is white death, while Mary Poppins sings to children that a spoonful of sugar helps to swallow medicine more easily. In ancient Rome, first - century sugar had only medical status, and some time ago the European Union subsidized sugar production to such an extent that more than five million tonnes of white beet sugar had to be exported annually. Over time, the perception of sugar's effects on the body has been highly controversial. Towards the end of the 20th century, sugar consumption was increasingly associated with obesity than with health risks. The Estonian Government decided to go the easy way: to initiate regularisation of the sugar tax among other tax increases in order to reduce the consumption of sugar and, hopefully, to reduce the health risk. The main target group for the consumption of sweetened drinks is children and young people. At first glance, this seems to be a very caring step for politicians. Adults have an important role to play in organizing children's lives and setting priorities, not by going after pocket money with tax increases, but, above all, by directing their children's choices in the family and shaping healthy eating habits in them. It is also directed by a simple grain of wisdom that clean drinking water is more beneficial than lemonade and healthier than coca cola. Much has been said about the impact of reducing sugar consumption since the draft was launched. One pseudoknowledge was highlighted by medical scientist Mihkel Zilmer, who has dealt with the alleged links between sugar and diabetes, or diabetes. They just don't exist. Zilmer has argued that there is no objective evidence that increased consumption of sugar causes diabetes more than other causes. In so - called sugar tax countries, tax impact studies have also been carried out. Some say that soda tax has reduced consumption and previous consumers have lost an average of two kilos of weight over the year, while there is no comparative study of how less sweet soft drinks affect the consumption of other sweet stuff. So the hope that the liver of sweetened drinks will bring all the sweet-sweetly people into shape is largely fantasy and wishful thinking. In addition, genetic scientists claim that many people may have a higher sugar requirement that is genetically determined. At the beginning of May, an article published in the American scientific journal Scientific American published a health study of 6,500 Danes that examined the causes of heart disease. A study of researchers at the University of Copenhagen also revealed the interesting fact that people have a higher need for sweetness in the presence of a certain variety of genes. This study may provide new information to answer the question why some can still eat more sugar without increasing their body mass index. The draft desiccated drinks has been criticised before and after the first reading. It has been pointed out that the draft law was not the subject of a drafting plan, which the Minister of Justice has called an absolute condition in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu, without which the draft law should not enter into parliamentary proceedings. It has also been noted that there are other products that are harmful to health than sugar. More specifically, any foodstuff can become harmful to health or dangerous if it is consumed in excessive quantities. The so-called sugar levy is practiced, but in the countries of the European Union it is still limited because it is difficult to determine the proportion of added sugar and natural sugar in any sweet product. However, this distinction must be made between taxation and tax fairness and health. Critics of the same tax in Finland find it. By the way, Denmark abolished the levy on lemonade and fat in 2013 because it did not work in the manner expected. The critics of the Sugar Tax have called taxation of sugar-containing products a patronising and so-called "nanny state" tax. Let it be said that one teaspoon of sugar gives 16 calories, which is 0.2% of the daily calorie requirement. In 1960, Federico Fellini film 'Sweet Life' made waves in Europe. It spoke of the barren search for happiness of the main character and became endless criticisms of the viewers, just as the government sweeter. If you look for any benefits on this sweet tax issue, then producers of food and soft drinks will also understand that work and product health needs to be done for consumers, because then consumers will live a longer and healthier life and will also grow the market longer. But we also have questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U39	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U40	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! On 10 April, you submitted an inquiry in which you were interested in tax and health behaviour. I will answer the questions you have asked. The first question: 'What studies are the basis for the taxation of sugar drinks? ' To provide a basis for the taxation of drinks, studies and recommendations published by the World Health Organisation (WHO) in recent years, as well as the European Commission's relevant taxation studies, as well as OECD thematic papers, were analysed. These were the main sources used both in the analysis and in the agreement and assembly of the draft based on it. They are also referred to in the analysis, but if anyone has difficulty finding them, I can e-mail them to the Internet sites where these studies and recommendations can be found. I will also mention the main sources here. These are WHO 2015 analysis 'Using price policies to promote healthier diets', WHO 2016 analysis 'Taxes on sugar drink: Why do it? ', OECD Health Working Papers No 48 'Improving lifestyles, tackling obesity', as well as OECD work on Obesity and the Economics of Prevention, Fit not Fat', as well as WHO 2016 material 'Technical guide of food and drink taxation to promote health diets'. These analyses have been carried out in quite a number of parts of the world, and they give us a good overview of the specific subject. The second question: "Which final objective does the government pursue by introducing a tax? " The law has two objectives: protection of public health and fiscal policy. The aim of health protection is wider, including directing businesses to produce drinks with lower levels of sugar and sweetener, as well as influencing consumers to make health-saving choices. The third question: 'The world produces numerous chemical sugar substitutes, which make the drink sweet, but their health effects have been less studied than the effects of sugar. Do you see the possibility that they will come into play after the tax has been introduced? ' Under the bill, the addition of sweetener is also taxed on the drink. If the beverage is sweetened with sweetener only and has no sugar in it, the tax rate for one litre of the beverage is EUR 0,1 irrespective of the quantity of the sweetener. When a sweetened drink contains both sweetener and sugar, the sweetened drink is taxed on the sugar content. In particular, if the sugar content of one litre of such a beverage is less than 5 grams per 100 ml, the drink shall be taxed at a rate of EUR 0,1. Where the sugar content is more than 5 grams but less than 8 grams per 100 ml of beverage, the drink shall also be taxed at a rate of EUR 0,1. Where the sugar content of a beverage sweetened with one litre of sugar and a sweetener is not less than 8 grams per 100 ml of drink, the rate shall be EUR 0,3. Question 4: "If you compare different ways of influencing health behaviour, such as awareness and education and taxes, what do you think is more effective? Do you think that home advice about not drinking coca-cola and sodas for children is less than prices? " When parents are aware of the harmful effects of sweetened beverages on health, domestic advice and rising prices are mutually supportive measures. At the same time, the consumption of sweetened drinks for children is also influenced by the marketing, availability, taste preferences, friends' habits, watching TV, and also the price of drinks. Study 'Health behaviour of Estonian schoolchildren' was carried out in 2013 and 2014. According to this, the proportion of overweight people in Estonia is higher among children in families with lower incomes, where parents' attitude to sweetened drinks has been rather positive and awareness of their adverse health effects is lower. The consumption of sugar-sweetened drinks is therefore also linked to their relatively cheap price. Question 5: "What do you assess the need for an administrative resource to calculate all the sugars? ' There is no need for this calculation because the sugar content is indicated on the label of each product. In case of doubt as to the presence of a sugar content or a sweetener, the Tax and Customs Board may at any time take samples for the determination of these substances from the sweetened beverage and send them to the laboratory for analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U41	Questions for the Minister. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U42	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Good clear answers. But some 20 years ago, an authority such as the World Health Organization convinced everyone in the world not to eat bacon and eggs, the favorite breakfast of the English because it produces bad cholesterol. Now, 20 years later, WHO and even more authoritative sources claim that it is not absolutely harmful to health, only in large amounts is harmful. You were with the coalition on Sunday, discussing tax changes. What is the probability that the sugar tax will still be out of your tax package and you will give up collecting the children's money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U43	Thank you for that good question. I would start with the so-called large quantities. I agree with you that a very large number of food products are harmful to health at certain levels. Sugar-sweetened drinks, if you note, have not been taxed at all from zero to five grams per 100 ml. The reason is very simple: if you drink half a litre of sugar-sweetened beverage with sugar content below 5 grams per 100 ml, it is considered healthy in its nature. So you can imagine that in this example of bacon and eggs you brought up at the beginning of the question, it is a question of quantities. Now, the other part of the question is, what kind of tax is it going to be for one or the other, and I would even say, not only the tax on sweetened beverages, but generally the policy of coalition. We have also said before that no law has been set in stone. Of course, when you form coalitions, you must always be prepared to make certain compromises. The question is, are compromises that cross your red lines or not? I have also pointed out earlier that in 2014, when you made a coalition with social democrats, your compromise was the acceptance of universal child support, which you did not really want to implement. But this compromise was understandable because you wanted need-based family support. The analogy is also here: it has certainly not been the aim of tax increases; they must be seen in the full picture. We have said this in the past that we are paying the greatest attention to reducing labour taxes. This is our greatest challenge in the near future. I believe that I am not too pathetic to say that the biggest change in financial terms from the tax changes of this century is that people have more money in their wallets. It costs EUR 150 million to the state budget. That's my answer. Right now, the coalition is reviewing all the changes on the table. If you notice, steps to cancel one or the other tax increase even if taxes are transferred from earning to consumption may not be pleasant when viewed separately. We've always said that. But if it is possible to cancel any tax increases, it is worth the effort. The environmental charges for cars are off the table today. I think you can proudly say that, so you don't have to be ashamed of it. When we removed it from the table, it does not show our weakness, but rather flexibility in the design of tax policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U44	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U45	Dear Minister, Regardless of the coalition's discussions on whether to withdraw this bill or move forward with it, I believe that you have a greater obstacle to legal problems with this bill. You promised to send me the European Commission's draft permit application. As we know, the Ministry must apply to the European Commission for authorisation of natural juices. So far, I have not received the text of this request for authorisation from you, from which I can conclude that it has not yet been submitted to the European Commission. I'm asking if the application is still pending.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U46	Thank you, good questioner! Don't worry, we will definitely make this request, as we have promised and as I promised you. As soon as we make this request, we'll send this project to you. You will certainly be one of the first to receive this request alongside the European Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U47	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U48	Dear Minister, Since we are considering giving you a mistrust, I would like to ask for a sincere answer. Why are you punishing the children and parents whose children brush their teeth properly and move a lot with the sugar tax? Why are you punishing them? Is the country so broke that they must also be taxed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U49	Thank you for that good question. I noticed that in the introduction by the envoys, the pathos talked about the fact that I could misquote even from five tons, as if paid to produce sugar. And someone was given a teaspoon of sugar to swallow some bitter grass. I had a very parallel question, but I shouldn't mind asking you if your goal is to increase sugar consumption. But, of course, you don't have to answer that, because the inquisitors have invited me here before you. However, if we put before you the question of whether we should increase sugar consumption, I suppose, my gut says that you would say no, we should not increase it. But now you're asking why we're trying to reduce it, even though you think we shouldn't. I think the answers come out of these same studies. Remember, we actually held a proper marathon debate a week and a half ago, discussing the same drafts, one of which dealt with sweetened drinks. And I gave you an example of the life of the Coca-Cola company Sprite, which has a sugar content in Estonia, I am now guessing, hopefully I will not be mistaken for 10,2 grams per 100 milliliters. But across the bay in Finland, 80 kilometers away, it's 6.6 grams per 100 milliliters. Both products are called Sprite, both produced by the same company, but different sugar content. Because tax policy is a little different in Finland. I ask you in response: is it wise to drink a bottle of Coca-Cola or Sprite with a sugar dose of 10.2 grams per 100 ml or 6.6 grams? Studies by the WHO, OECD and the European Commission say that the more sugar is consumed, the greater the damage to health. There's a connection between them. There is also a reason why efforts are generally being made to reduce the sugar content of products. Different countries have chosen different ways. While we are now moving towards a tax on sweetened beverages, some countries have also taxed a wide range of solid products. There are different approaches. It is well known that next year, if I am not mistaken, Britain and Ireland are also planning to levy additional taxes on sweetened products. Overall, the analyses show that the higher the sugar content, the greater the negative momentum it can give to health. That is why the decision that 0,5 g per 100 ml has not been taxed in the future, as it is not expected to be harmful to health. I hope I answered thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U50	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U51	Thank you. Good minister! In fact, the debate on the taxation of sugar-sweetened drinks in society is very welcome and many people have started to acknowledge the problem and also to tell children not to drink so much coke. If we're looking at a Coke, it's a liter of 110 grams of sugar. That's not enough. And when people drink coke, nobody drinks 50 grams of it, they still drink the bottle. When you look at children, we see that as a rule it is. If we want to find out how much sugar-sweetened drinks have increased among children, studies show that 60% of children regularly drink sugar-sweetened drinks, including a very large amount of coke. And that's the problem with child obesity year after year. I'm gonna ask you again. Do you think that the taxation of sugar-sweetened drinks is a step in the right direction to influence people's health behaviour? There is also Hungary, Finland, France...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U53	... Norway and Others introduced this tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U54	It is a tax and it is a bill to be dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, which immediately states that the future law will automatically also have a fiscal effect. As I have already said in answering one question, this is clearly also a draft with fiscal implications. You can't deny that. On the health side of the bill, the Ministry of Social Affairs has provided us with input. They have done the relevant analyses; they have commissioned further analyses themselves; they have monitored the analyses already carried out by existing global organisations. And these analyses say that lower sugar content in general gives a better health impulse. After all, it has been a question in this Chamber and in everyone else, whether reducing sugar in our food and our drink will really contribute to our better health or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U55	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! As Minister of Finance, I'm sure you can calculate and understand logic. Then try to explain one thing to the Riigikogu. If sugar-sweetened drinks make up 5% and calorie about 2%, even if all these people gave up drinking these drinks, the effect would still not be as you have been able to describe. The parallel question is the question of continuation for Aivar Sõerdi. In the case of dragging on this request, do you not mean that you will certainly receive a negative response from the European Union and that you have a duty to impose these taxes not only on sweetened beverages, particularly lemonades?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U57	Two questions, I will try to answer them as accurately and meaningfully as possible. First of all, the first question related to the daily calorie and how much sugar is consumed. After all, there is a real question as to why pay attention to sweetened drinks. We had this subject on the table for a long time, too, when we dealt with this bill. I think it's quite appropriate to repeat that the essence of a sweetened drink is such that it is not actually taken as a single meal. According to the analysis, that is exactly what we should pay attention to. Drinking a sweetened drink, you don't think about how many calories there are in it. This is the biggest problem that is being raised. When a person eats something, he usually thinks, oh, there's so much sugar in it, there's so many calories in it. Drinks don't take this into account, or at least a person doesn't think about it in his subconscious. This is why health professionals recommend that attention be paid to the calorie nature of drinks. That would be the answer to the first part of the question. The second half of the question concerned the possibility of sending a request for State aid to the European Commission. Of course, all matters relating to State aid are always a question in the European Union, and ultimately it is the Commission that will give the final answer. As far as sweetened products are concerned, different processes are under way in different countries. In Finland, however, the issue of the taxation of sweetened products is also being resolved with the European Commission. We can work in the best way of knowing that we can convey our political will. We believe that these and these specific products, such as natural juices, should not be subject to tax and we are going to apply for it. There's no rocket science here. We make this request to the European Commission on the basis of our best knowledge, based on the best analyses. And when it comes to arguing, of course, we argue to stand up for our positions. Finally, this dispute will determine whether or not we will receive this distinction. But I'm sure we're making an effort to get that distinction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Every new tax affects our general living environment and people's lives in it. How much and has the Ministry of Finance been able to analyze the fact that in addition to vodka and beer, desiccated drinks are now being brought from our neighbours? What effect does this have on cross-border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U60	I already mentioned it once. We do not think it is such a product. I don't expect any increased attention to buying coke from other countries. There is always some logical effect on border trade when a tax is imposed on one product or another, but in our opinion the increase in border trade is not significant due to the appreciation of sweet drinks. When we talk about the impact of this tax on the price of the product, health experts say that this effect should not be less than 20% of the final price of the product, otherwise this effect will not be felt. In other words, it is said that this effect must be at least 20% of the current price, only then the purchasing behaviour will change. If you make some kind of change with a small impact, 3 to 5% of the final price, the consumer will not really feel it. So we have a reason to increase the price by at least 20% as a result of the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U61	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U62	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! There has also been practice in Estonia with previous governments that a specific excise duty or other tax has been linked to a specific expenditure line in the budget. Last time, a certain part of the excise duty went to clean up local roads. Now a good number of governments have abandoned this principle, and all benefits go to the same pot. Do you not think that the people would accept such taxes more understandingly and more readily if they were linked to a specific cost line? On this subject, it could be linked, for example, to the wider promotion of exercise or, I don't know, to the wider consumption of fruit and vegetables or something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U63	Thank you for that good question. This topic in itself, how much flexibility and indexation should be in the drafting of the state budget, is up in all countries, including Estonia. And the tendency is quite the opposite: trying to reduce indexation and increase flexibility. If everything had been indexed, there could be one Excel table with income coming in, running around on certain cost lines. The aim is to create flexibility. I've given this example before, but maybe it would be appropriate to bring it again. Currently, part of the funding of culture and sport is linked to the collection of gambling tax. I think that's the best example if I asked you what would happen if we made some athletes' scholarships depend only on how much gambling tax is due. What happens if, for some reason, gambling tax doesn't get much when you don't play so much? An athlete still needs to train. This example may prove that it is actually right to take away such equal signs, so that these things are not directly related. But if you ask whether it would be reasonable to give a signal to society by doing things other than taxing, I think this is very right. As I said before in answering one question: the introduction of a tax is only one part of the undertakings, one of the campaign elements, if you could say so. There is also information and everything else that we do in the interests of healthier behaviour. Of course, I have understood that, too, and the Ministry of Social Affairs is doing campaigns to make more known how harmful sugar is to your health.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U64	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, A little less than two weeks ago at night, we discussed these tax changes brought before us. Then Mr Seeder, the new chairman of your party, came and said that this tax package would not go right away. Your views have been very plastic here on various issues. I think you have the red lines you referred to, not really. But my question is: what do your perceptions coincide with what Mr Seeder has said? Will the public sector cut in, and if so, what kind? What tax changes do we have on the table, and which ones do not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U66	Maybe I'll correct the introduction to your question. There are red lines! Of course there are red lines! When I think back to the negotiations with coalition partners six months ago, what was on the table was I'm not ashamed to say that it was still oh-oh-hoo. Partners brought different tax increases on the table, ranging from progressive income tax, where a higher percentage of wages would be taken up, to the recovery of the classic corporate tax across the country. There were a number of other proposals in between. It is no shame, and it is not strange at all that different parties have different promises in the election programme. We had very clear red lines and not just in tax policy. I only mention the questions of citizenship and language, defence and security there were red lines, yes and yes. I don't think that's a question. I would rather say today that if there is something agreed, these agreements must be honoured. When we talk specifically about the tax on sweetened beverages, two things coincide here. Yeah, it wasn't brought to the table by the IRL. No, it wasn't! However, health experts say that the taxation of sugar-sweetened drinks also brings revenue to the country, but on the other hand contributes to better health behaviour. As far as the fiscal side is concerned, we have repeatedly stated that we are shifting taxes from earning to consumption. I have also made efforts to reduce taxes. No liver is ever pleasant, no liver! But looking at what's been going on in tax policy for six months, I think we have nothing to be ashamed of. We have either completely canceled a number of taxes or made it much less favourable. As far as your question of the final position is concerned, as regards the form of 'final laws' for one tax or another, it is, of course, up to Parliament itself. The bill has three readings. I have also said before that there are very few drafts that leave the Riigikogu as a law in exactly the wording they came to this Riigikogu. I think that, in the coming weeks too, we will see amendments to the various draft laws here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U67	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U68	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Here's the question. You pointed out that at least 20% should go up to buy less of these drinks. But how big do I still think or have missed it? It should be the percentage of the decrease in consumption to talk about choosing a healthier lifestyle? And by continuing to think about Andres Ammas, wouldn't it be wise to channel this money from the sweetened beverage tax into developing children's mobility programs, for example? Our way of life has changed. The problem is that the physical exercise of young people is low, plus stress and all the other modern phenomena. Why are we collecting this money to fill budget holes rather than using it specifically to promote health?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U69	I'm gonna start from a distance. I'll start with the second half of your question, and then I'll get to the first half. I think you and I are on the same side of the front line here, if I may say so. Activities that contribute to raising people's awareness should take place anyway, whether or not an additional tax is introduced. Such an activity in its nature should not be subject to one or the other tax. For example, when it comes to a possible increase in alcohol duty, the whole package of measures is actually being used, starting with regulating the opening hours of shops and ending with trying to raise people's awareness of how harmful alcohol is to the body. It's a process of nature. It should not be the case that alcohol harm is mentioned only when there is an increase in excise duty. I think this process should be continuous. As regards the potential for a decrease in consumption, the analysis shows that consumption may decrease by up to 27%. Different statistics have been taken as a basis. One is European non-alcoholic beverages producers and the other is Euro Monitor statistics. The analysis is based on commercial margins, sugar content, additional VAT, price elasticity, etc. Thus, consumption is projected to decrease by up to 27%. If you look at this bill, its contents are quite elastic. There is the so-called highest limit, i.e. over 8 grams of sugar, but it is assumed that these product groups will move to a level of 5 to 8 grams. This elasticity, if I remember correctly, is even halfway. It is foreseen that producers will actually reduce sugar content over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U70	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I must say, unfortunately, that your reasoning and your great concern for human health are not very convincing. Estonia is one of the few countries in Europe where we have uniform VAT on all goods, including foodstuffs. Just a moment ago, you said that you could reduce your payment, and I agree very much with that, but you actually raise your taxes. Perhaps we could reduce the value added tax (VAT) on healthy food, if we are really worried about human health. By reducing it on fruit and vegetables, for example, their consumption is increasing. It would be a step for the sake of health and the people would like it. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U72	I think that's a very good question. The debate on whether different categories of food can have different VATs is going on across Europe. In a number of European countries, VAT rates vary. By the way, many countries are now trying to move in the opposite direction and equalise VAT. In view of the impact of possible tax differences, the problem is that it actually affects less precisely those who should be particularly affected. This should particularly affect people with lower incomes. Low value added tax (VAT) should have a positive impact, especially for people with lower incomes. In fact, the opposite is true. In fact, the impact is passed on to higher income markets, as these people buy more goods with a low VAT rate that allows it. It is thus disputed whether tax distinctions are effective or not and whether one or the other distinction is targeted specifically at the target group that should be most affected. For example, one of the differences we have introduced is a very specific distinction for health and sport, which allows the employer to invest in the employee without paying the special preferential tax. But at the same time, true story, in the case of foodstuffs, it is simply the question that people in higher incomes consume more and therefore their victories are greater. So we would actually have shifted the focus aside, we would not have directed the distinction to where it was most necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U73	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you, Sven Sester, Minister of Finance! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U74	And now the inquiry by Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp and Andres Herkel, who also introduces questions on behalf of the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Minister Sester! I cannot go past the broader assessment of the situation that governs our monetary policy by introducing this inquiry. The Free Party Group also takes the firm view that what you are doing with tax changes and the plan to bring Estonia's state budget deficit is very damaging to our public finances. Your views, Mr Sester, who you have been in various coalitions with the Minister of Finance and, in his time, the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, are still extremely fickle. That is why the opposition has made a fundamental decision to make your plea of distrust and to start collecting signatures to save you from this very bad situation. You've once said one thing, then a diametrically different story, and now maybe you'll start talking another one. But the question of this question is about a different complaint. On the outside, we agree with you. You have already responded once to an inquiry into the excise duty on heavy fuel oil. You have also answered my written question, which I asked last year. You have said that there is a problem and there is action to solve it, but the problem we think is that we do not see the result. That is why we come to the Riigikogu for the second time. The excise duty on heavy fuel oil is much lower than the excise duty on diesel fuel, and the blending of heavy fuel oil can lead to a low-quality but affordable blend of fuel that can be fraudulently profitable. And the fact that it's done hasn't been a secret. At the beginning of the second half of last year, somewhere at the end of the summer, perhaps a little earlier, headlines such as 'new tricks of fuel businessmen', 'Acciation growth paved the way for fraud', 'Fuel mixers cripple car engines', etc. Your first information to us was that you will present your proposals at the meeting of the Cabinet in September. In response to our questions again in October, you confirmed that the proposal to tax high-quality heavy fuel oil with the same rate of excise duty as light fuel oil and diesel, taking into account the additional criteria. You assured me that there was some sort of memorandum that you were going to put before the government of the Republic. In the meantime, a new government has come. We have not quite understood whether the plans of the new government and your own plans on these issues overlap or not, and it is not regrettable and I would not like to say this, I hope not a malicious delay. However, we do not know that the possibility of this excise fraud has been eliminated. Finding a solution can be difficult and needs to be done in the ministry. Until then, we have not heard of the results of this work. We want to be wrong here, but we certainly want to hear what is going on and what the specific timetable for solving the problem is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U76	Finance Minister Sven Sester will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm responding to an inquiry signed by six members of the Free Party. Since all questions concern heavy fuel oil, it is appropriate to answer them at once. I'll explain why at once. First, I'll read out the questions you had. 'What is the view of the Government of the Republic of Estonia on the problem of the excise difference between heavy fuel oil? What measures are you taking to prevent excise fraud? What is the fate of the memorandum referred to in your previous reply? What additional criteria are on the agenda for better differentiation of heavy fuel oils? Why has the Ministry of Finance not submitted a legislative amendment to address these problems? When is an amendment to the law scheduled? Please present the content of the proposed amendment. At what stage is the introduction of the change to stakeholders and what feedback have you received? What are the main interest groups that want to slow down the birth of a legislative amendment? How do you explain the rather long-term success of these interest groups so far? " Those are the questions. You know, you made an introduction to these questions with the right big pathos. To be honest, I was wondering if there's ever been a crime like this before that the inquisitors are asking about things that have already been done. I have a long political career, but I don't remember that. Perhaps the Free Party is so free that they no longer orientate in the draft laws. You know, just saying, it's done. On the basis of your questions, it seems that you are not familiar with the changes to the law that have been dealt with in the Riigikogu. In fact, last year, the Riigikogu adopted a tax amendment initiated by the government on 19 December 2016, because the new coalition has taken vigorous steps, which also concerned excise duties on fuel, including heavy fuel oil. The provisions on the differentiation of excise duties on heavy fuel oil and oil shale fuel oil shall enter into force on 1 July of this year. We adopted this law on 19 December. The rate of excise duty on high-quality heavy fuel oils will be the same as for diesel fuel, given its energy content. The rate of excise duty on heavy fuel oils which are very different from diesel fuel remains unchanged. Given that the release of heavy fuel oil has increased from year to year and that heavy fuel oil of good quality is used as a substitute fuel instead of nine times higher taxed light fuel oil, as well as that there has been misuse as motor fuel, it was appropriate for the country to adjust its excise policy in this respect. One option was to distinguish between heavy fuel oil of good quality on the basis of some specific important parameters, such as density, viscosity and sulphur content, including oil shale fuel oil under the Energy Taxation Directive, and to tax it in the same way as diesel fuel and light fuel oil, taking into account its energy content. The objective of the resulting amendment is to put an end to a situation where types of heavy fuel oil which are relatively similar and comparable in quality to those of high-taxed diesel and light fuel oil would be taxed at a lower rate of excise duty. There is a risk that these fuels will indeed be used as motor fuel, and this risk must be minimised. The rate of excise duty on oil shale fuel oil permitted by our oil shale oil producers will not increase, but the distribution of heavy fuel oil similar to diesel instead of light fuel oil or motor fuel will become considerably more difficult. Of the Estonian producers, oil shale fuel oil is produced by VKG Oil and Eesti Energia Oil Industry, whose properties make it sufficiently different from diesel fuel. I very much hope that we have found an adequate and effective solution to the situation. However, it can be estimated in the coming years if the impact of the changes can be assessed. But the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U78	Questions. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U79	Thank you, Minister. If so, we look forward to the results of these changes. I understand that they have not yet entered into force and that the people who have actually suffered from these frauds for a long time have not fully understood what this solution is going to be. But we'll look forward to it. My question is this: how far do you estimate the tax damage that these frauds have caused? What is the state's loss of income? And yet, why has it taken so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U80	I'll come back to the point of your questions. Be sure to review the legislative changes that were processed last December. But it is indeed a rare case that there is a question about the problems that Parliament, or the legislator, has already solved. But now your question. There's a complete picture. The same draft also provides an analysis of the number of months in which heavy fuel oil and its components have been released for consumption over the years. These statistics are fully available and are also available to all parties. Based on this, calculations can be made. The trend was that in January 2015, for example, 40 tonnes of heavy fuel oil were allowed into consumption, but by the end of the year it grew almost 20 times. It gives an indication of the quantities we're talking about. By now, however, such deception is at its limit. That's not gonna happen again. We've done all this beautifully.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U81	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U82	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! I am very sorry that you could not answer Mr Herkel's question about the state's damage. But perhaps you can tell me what concrete measures you have taken to prevent fraud schemes? What are the guidelines of the authorities on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U83	Thank you. I pointed out earlier that I had a complete review. I can send it to you separately, but look at the bill you opposed, by the way. In this sense, it is a little hypocritical here to talk about the problems with the pathos, you yourself opposed these amendments, if I am not mistaken. But there is a complete overview of the quantities of specific heavy fuel oils that have been allowed to be consumed from month to month. You will also be able to remove this overview from the explanatory memorandum of the draft law and to reflect on the impact of the change on the state budget in the future. There's no question at all. If you are asking what steps the state will take in the future to take following the enactment of the bill, the most important thing is that it is clearly defined when heavy fuel oil is involved. Based on density at 15 degrees temperature and viscosity at 40 degrees, but also sulphur content. The appropriate ranges shall be precisely fixed. Of course, it gives additional levers to the Tax and Customs Board, which is now able to control everything in accordance with the precisely defined law and decide when it is a higher tax rate, when it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U84	Thank you, Minister. People's ambassadors don't want to know anything else. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U85	The following question is submitted by Laine Randjärv, Kalle Palling, Urve Tiidus, Heidy Purga, Urmas Kruuse, Maris Lauri, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Yoko Alender, Terje Trei, Mart Helme and Jaak Madison. On behalf of all of them, Laine Randjärv presents an inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, The inquiry submitted to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, is about the financing of song and dance parties. The theme of song festivals has recently come into focus from a number of angles, not just from the perspective of funding. This is also understandable because a young song and dance party will soon begin, which is an important link in our singing party movement. Young songs and dances are crucial because today's young people are the ones who will carry our soon 150-year-old tradition to the next generations. In previous times, this event and the accompanying activities have been an important priority over many years, based also on what is expressed in the preamble to our constitution. Despite the fact that our eyes shine at difficult moments when we think about emotions at song festivals, we do not now have the confidence that the party movement is sustainable. Unfortunately, the importance of the singing party and all this in our budget is not clear. The fact that young people are no longer going to learn about choir management has also led to certainty about the financing of the song festival movement as a whole. The choir leaders currently working are enthusiastic, but in a couple of thirty years there may not be people standing before the choirs under such conditions. This means, however, that there are no song festivals, which ultimately confirm that the future of our parties is dark. The Estonian Choir Leaders' Association also acknowledged this at its annual meeting, where attention was paid in particular to the training of the choir leaders' secondary growth, the remuneration of current collective leaders and the funding of the song festival movement during the intersong festivals. The Committee on Culture has also taken up this issue, and hopefully it will have a result in the future. I cannot fail to express my dissatisfaction with the embarrassing fact that the theme of the song festival in the wind has been applied by Tallinn's assistant mayor Kõlvart to the repertoire of the song festival, regrettably in front of his campaign cart, and is trying to attract voters to himself with populist statements. I find this to be absolutely inappropriate. The repertoire of each song festival is only for the artistic director and his staff to decide who will be selected by competition and whose job it is to choose the stories in the program. On the day following the transfer of the inquiry, good news came that the Ministry of the Interior found money to ensure the security of the 2017 party. Thank you so much for that! So our question No 3 may not be answered by the Minister of Finance because it has found a solution. As has been said in the debate on the previous point, sometimes solutions come to questioning. However, there are still problems with international singing events in 2018, student singing party Gaudeamus and the budget of Europa Cantat. These events are important on an international scale by introducing our cultural traditions around the world. These are also taking place in the year of the 'Estonian Republic 100' events. There is also no clear understanding of how to fund the 2019 Song and Dance Festival. It has been claimed that in the RES 2018/2021 there is money in the reserve of the Government of the Republic for the general Song and Dance Festival and more detailed information will arrive when the ticket revenue of this year's young song festival is revealed. However, the organisation of the 2019 anniversary party has actually begun: a program is already being prepared, preliminary samples are planned, stories are being ordered. This is an independent event that needs confidence not only in 2019, but certainly earlier. In this context, the heirs want to know what the government's position is on maintaining the tradition of singing and dance, what is the precise plan for the 2019 party's budget and funding, and what solutions will be found to finance international singing events Gaudeamus and Europa Cantat, which have been agreed with a large number of parties many years ago. The Minister does not have to read these questions again. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U87	However, the minister must answer questions that he does not have to read. Please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! You presented me with an inquiry on 15 May, where you were interested in how to fund singing and dance parties. You agreed that I would not read the questions as soon as possible in the interests of replying. In order to be correct, however, I will also say the question, it will be a few minutes or these few seconds will not play such a big role. The first question is what is the government's position on maintaining the tradition of singing and dance and what is the exact plan for the 2019 party budget and funding. Of course, the government considers song festival traditions to be an important part of Estonian national culture and, of course, it intends to allocate funds for it. In order to prepare and conduct the 2019 jubilee Song Festival, a total of EUR 4.15 million is planned to be allocated over the period 2017 to 2019, or three years. In this, the state's contribution, or direct taxpayer contribution, is 2.61 million euros, and in addition, the planned cost of own income of the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation is 1.54 million euros during these years. The second question: 'What solutions will be found to fund international song festivals, which have been agreed with several parties several years ago? " Here you can talk, for example, about the student singing party Gaudeamus in 2018. Now, with special attention to this, the request for the money needed to host this song festival was not made by any party in the current process of national budget strategy, and in this connection we did not discuss it in the RES negotiations. At the same time, I know that the Minister of Culture, in cooperation with the Minister of Education and Research, is looking for solutions to find the necessary funding within the framework of the budgets. I'm sure this party won't miss. The Prime Minister has also reported on this in Question Time when Mrs Krista Aru asked her specific questions on this subject. As regards the wider need to change the financing of song festivals, here the ball is in the hands of the responsible ministers. As Minister of Finance, I look forward to proposals in the country's budgetary strategy process for next year in spring 2018. Of course, all funding needs are in competition with each other. It's natural and it's known. The government is also guided by the specific priorities of sectoral ministers in decision-making. I am not going to deal with the third question here, because you already have information on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U89	Members of the Riigikogu have questions for the Minister. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U90	Thank you. Good minister! You mentioned the money from the own income of the Estonian Song Festival and Dance Festival Foundation, which is planned to be put into use in 2019. At the same time, there is information that the ticket revenue of the youth party will no longer be entered into the budget of the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation, but will be taken into the state budget. This seems strange, because usually the Song and Dance Foundation has been able to use the resources earned at the parties as a whole for the sake of the song festival movement. For example, various mentor programmes have been funded so that our youth choirs can operate and be paid to their supervisors. It's not just the subject of a particular party. That is why the question of sustainability has been raised. What is your position as Minister of Finance as to whether the ticket revenue earned by the Estonian Song and Dance Festival Foundation could remain in the foundation's own budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U91	Thank you. If you look at the appropriations in three years together, as I said before, it is EUR 4150000. How does it divide? Of course, the largest part of it is planned to be spent in 2019 when a song and dance is held. Then 3.4 million out of this 4.15 million will be spent. That's a quiet increase. I say, for the sake of the verbatim, that it should remain in writing and that we can always look at it: EUR 280000 has been allocated for 2017, EUR 470000 for 2018 and EUR 3.4 million for 2019. A total of 4,15 million. The proportions are exactly what I said. By 2019, the largest amount is 3.4 million, with 1.3 million of 2.1 million own resources. More specifically, you can certainly be answered by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who knows what funds are being held in one foundation or another. The Minister of Finance has no control in the form of a general meeting and does not negotiate with specific foundations in their day-to-day activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U92	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! You mentioned that the student singing party Gaudeamus financing has been unfortunately a real mess. This request has not been submitted in time. Has the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Education and Science now submitted a joint application for funding for the singing party of students next year and, if so, for what amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U94	Yes, this letter was received by the Minister of Finance during the RES process, I may be wrong, but perhaps on the last or the last day, when the process had already reached its final destination. This application came as a joint letter from the Minister for Culture and Education. Of course, when new financing decisions are taken, this will also be addressed. This request was not made in the so-called classical process of the RES; it was only received in the form of this letter. When the time comes for us to start talking again about possible financial allocations, these things will always be discussed twice a year, either during a specific state budget procedure or during the spring of the state budget strategy procedure, it will be on the table. Today, this joint letter is finally presented, but not in the earlier process, in the form of an additional request for funding from the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U95	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U96	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Since 150 years of the first song festival will pass in 2019, it is likely that the singing people rightly hope that the party will be a little more powerful than the usual parties. Have your good assistants given you information on how much this party's budget is bigger than, for example, the previous party, by several percent? If you have this information at your disposal, please share it with us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U97	I can't tell you right now how much it's bigger than before. I can tell you how much the Ministry of Culture will request for the 2019 anniversary song festival. This amount is EUR 1.8 million of public money. And this request is already based on the exact amount requested by the Minister of Culture in the country's budget strategy. It hasn't been reduced. So there is this in the country's budget strategy. In the case of another draft, we discussed whether there was an equal sign between revenue and expenditure, and then I pointed out that flexibility was being sought. That amount has a cover. We cannot say that this coating comes from sweetened beverages or alcohol excises, they do not have an equal sign. But there's a cover. The Minister of Culture is applying for EUR 1.8 million and in the country's budget strategy it is included without any reduction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U98	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! Mrs Randjärv also mentioned another major international song event on her question, Europa Cantati. As a minister, are you familiar with Europa Cantat, which will bring 5,000 singers from all over the world to Estonia next summer of 2018? Is there enough budgetary resources for this? 5,000 singers from all over the world, it is not only that they will sing together nicely here, it is also an excellent marketing opportunity for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U100	If you want to know whether there was a separate request for additional financial allocations for Europa Cantat during the national budgetary strategy procedure, I will reply that no such additional request has been submitted. If you ask whether the Minister of Culture sees the Ministry's role in organising this Europa Cantat, I think he should definitely speak to the Minister of Culture separately. However, no separate request was made and so we could not discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U101	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns the Kalev Stadium, which has an ambitious plan and a legitimate plan to become a national stadium, where Song and Dance events will continue to take place in the future. What is the state's share of investments and other subsidies here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U103	Thank you, that's a good question! I would say that this has been among the highest priorities of the Minister for Culture when he has presented us with applications concerning real estate. After all, these applications are submitted by all ministers in the field. The main priorities of the Minister of Culture, if not the most important, have been related to Kalev Stadium. To date, the government has essentially decided to channel additional resources into it in the coming years so that this entire stadium can be repaired. There are also separate projects in this regard, which this repetition in its nature means what is being built on it and how this process is all happening. It's a multi-annual venture. The Minister of Culture has taken note of this, and the government has already decided that this stadium will be repaired in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U104	There are no further questions for the Minister of Finance. Thank you, Sven Sester! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs Laine Randjärv, please! As usual, 5 + 3, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for these answers. Yes, these issues are obviously more in the hands of the Minister for Culture and Education, but since the Ministry of Finance is the ministry that ultimately decides on the balance of the budget or not on the balance, and also on the allocation of additional resources, it was certainly an appropriate question. Both ministers in the field have said that they have not found a good understanding of the Ministry of Finance. The Song Party Movement and the whole process of the Song Festival are a long and complex sequence of events. As we know, 150 years will soon be the first singing party. At very different times, governments have treated this funding differently. Nostalgically, you may recall the times when, under the conditions of the Soviet occupation, extraordinarily large sums of money were allocated to the celebrations, in the hope that it would shut people's mouths and reduce the general mood of protest. But it was thanks to these singing and dance parties that kept it up a little, which helped us regain our independence in the early 1990s. Therefore, I think that a song festival is not just one event in a series of other events, but it is an event that has helped to re-establish our country. Strangely enough, whenever the singing and dances of schoolchildren are held, as well as the general song and dances, there will be a major debate, who will then be the most important organiser, either the Ministry of Education or the Ministry of Culture. It is not possible to share who is responsible for what, who is asking for money, does not know whether or not there is an application submitted by the RES and asks why the Ministry of Culture has to submit, do so by the Ministry of Education and so on. Things like that make me nervous. The ministries concerned could, at any cost, use ten nails to try to get this important event, but instead, the responsibility, such as the Tatikas and the Water Brewl, shoved the dead dog over the garden gate. What happened to the request for funding the Gaudeamus Song Festival seems extremely strange and frustrating. The Youth Song and Dance Festivals are under the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. The general Song and Dance Festivals are under the administration of the Ministry of Culture. At the same time, the Estonian Song and Dance Party Foundation organises everything, with people from one Ministry and another. At the same time, people in the Council are not people at decision-making level; they are more advisers. Everyone's very good specialists, I don't say anything about them, but the decision-maker is ultimately the Ministry of Finance. And that is the situation that, when money is fought out for a specific year of the party, in the meantime, the song festival movement chirps with squeamish choirs, the choir leaders squeal. The system of how choir leaders are paid is not in place. We all want to go to a song and dance and see 24000 bright-eyed singers and dancers present to the whole world our traditional and new works that have made us known in the world, but at the same time we do not really want to support this movement as a whole. This work must be consistent. No choir comes together for just one song and dance, let alone a folk dance group. It's years of work since the midgets and the elementary school kids. It is certainly a good thing that the officials prepared the answers to the Minister, which also included specific figures with decimal places, etc. But actually, I didn't really feel heartache in that answer. I have that heartache. If we can't finance the song movement stablely, maybe we'll have our 150th anniversary song party, but if the 160th anniversary comes again, there's nothing to say about it. In schools, music teachers are not paid the same fee as teachers when they do the choir, not to mention that adult choirs do not actually receive any reward at all if singers, a large number of whom are of retirement age, would not collect money so that their choir leader would still deal with them. So the mentor program, funded with the money from the tickets to the singing party, is a very big question. This was discussed with concern at the general meeting of the Estonian Men's Song Society, as there has been no support since autumn. The mentor program has also funded the conductors of young men's choirs, not only the conductors, but the entire movement of young men's choirs, which in the meantime has brought nearly 700 young men to the singers' ranks so that the singing field does not leave the men empty. But now people are always thinking about the possibilities of financing, the use of ticket revenue, and at one point, perhaps only senior choirs and only female choirs are on stage under the singing arc. So let's think about it! I don't mind the female choirs, but we could still keep our long tradition balanced. In fact, it's weird to fight this money all the time and ask, it's kind of humiliating. Song and dance parties should have a solid place in the budget so that no one should ask for money, no matter what coalition is in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U106	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Finance! Good people's representatives! What I'm saying isn't directly to the Minister of Finance, it's more like all of us. All the problems associated with the song and dance, Laine Randjärv has nicely mentioned here. I would like to dwell on an even more general level. The Estonian people have many beautiful traditions from their past, their own history, which has come well in the past. And this bringing with us has brought us so much joy and we are proud to be one of UNESCO's cultural pearls. The great responsibility of all of us, all of the people of Estonia, should be to think and act in such a way that the songs and dances will last. But they do last when young people start to sing, when they start to dance, when they start to get interested in it, when new people emerge who can take the lead in singing and dancing. And it is really sad that we always solve the question of how to finance it in advance of the upcoming song festival. It is not a question of one hand; the question is how one of the most beautiful traditions that the Estonian people can be proud of is preserved. On behalf of the Free Party, I call for a much bigger and more bold thinking on this issue as well. We have something to be proud of. Let's hold it! Let us not allow the Minister of Finance to come here to answer the question of whether or not a song festival is funded. This thing is bigger than ours today, bigger than our predecessors and bigger than those who come after us. This is our common value and it is not difficult for all ministries to work together to protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U108	Andres Ammas, please! Speaking in a position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U109	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Using the possibility that very rarely the topic of discussion in the Riigikogu is the direct specialty of the speaker, the specialty I have learned, I will complement the ideas of previous speakers with a few other accents. I think that this issue is so important that our honourable members of the Committee on Culture could at some point raise the debate on the culture of song and dance festivals as an important national issue. It's not over-offered. And sometimes it seems to me that the things that are most self-evident and the importance of which we all emphasise when, for example, a Postman journalist asks us about this and who we are looking for the most beautiful words to answer can fall apart very quickly. There is no solution to the preparation of choir leaders at higher education institutions. Currently, this preparation is fragmented between three schools: the Music Academy, Tallinn University and Viljandi Culture Academy. This preparation, according to experts, is not enough for a young person who graduated from school to be able to prepare the choir for a singing party. Secondly, the remuneration of the choir leaders that have already been mentioned. I know that there are very many good school leaders in Estonia who equate the work of choir leaders with that of a teacher. Choir classes in these schools are equal to other classes in the curriculum and are equally remunerated. This example deserves to be followed more broadly. The third topic: local parties are now completely out of focus, county song and dances, which are currently taking place on a project-based basis rather than consistently funded. If the base of the pyramid is modest, there are no peaks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U110	Members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak. The minister doesn't either. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-29_U111	Free mike. There's no wish today. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.59 p.m.
