ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently 43 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Among the members of the government are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Due to the number of requests, I am today giving the opportunity to submit an additional question to the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U2	The first questioner is Martin Helme and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! I recall here in good words how we fought against the principles of violent administrative reform when we were still in opposition with the Centre Party and the Conservative People's Party. One of the reasons why we opposed administrative reform was the risk that the reform would not take into account the interests and wishes of the local population. Now there are many places where there are problems. One of them is the so-called forced merger with Setu rural municipality. The point is that one part of the municipalities wants to create Setu rural municipality and the other part certainly does not want to. The inhabitants of Meremäe Parish certainly do not want to join Setu rural municipality, but the number of inhabitants required does not come together in Setu rural municipality without the municipality of Meremäe. Now the government has basically set a course for coercion. Do you see other options than coercion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A good questioner, Mr Helme, first of all, thank you. I completely agree with you, of course we fought against the former state of administrative reform together. In my opinion, the fight both you and our group had a real benefit. As you can see, the government has changed. It has changed, I would say, the content of this reform as well. Because the main thing we fought for, you said yourself very rightly, was the wishes of the residents. What were the wishes of the residents? In my opinion, they largely wanted the tasks to be specified, so that the municipalities could have more responsibility and we could solve the issue of funding. I think you are not arguing against this, at least I hope, that, for example, the issue of financing has actually been unfair for eight years, since the beginning of 2009. After all, a new financing model has now been agreed, which provides for the abolition of the personal income tax paragraph. There will be more tasks and responsibilities for municipalities, but also funding, for example, the issue of public transport. We have, I think, achieved a great deal here with you. The second part of the question was about a possible Setu or Setomaa municipality. Choose Force Merge or Non-Sund Merge? I have been there myself, and I have met these people in my work in recent weeks, and I dare say, on the basis of my senses, that it is possible to find the best solution to this part of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U6	Thank you. I have been there, too, and I have been talking to people, which is why I am raising these issues here. About 70% of the inhabitants of Meremäe rural municipality value themselves, they do not want to do a survey, they say it is a waste of money, because everyone knows what the answer is to join Võru. Then there is the option that Värska municipality and some other rural municipalities from above will join Räpina, Meremäe will join Võru and Setu municipality will not come. The alternative is that there are five rural municipalities in the south-east corner joining each other, in which case it is no longer the so-called pure Setu municipality. These are the options, but they are not dealt with, but there is still a clear signal from both the county government and the government about forced integration. How seriously are you considering these options in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U7	Thank you. I would be able to respond very briefly and say that we are considering this very seriously. But, of course, I'm going to take a longer answer. I myself have thought that there would be five parties to Setu's rural municipality: Mikitamäe, Värska, Meremäe, Misso, and fifth, I would read some of Misso's villages, the Luhamaa Nulka. Having met all of their representatives, it seems to me that the general opinion is, of course, not one hundred percent, but it is the opinion of four of those five parties, including the representatives of the Misso Council, that if Setu Municipality were to be formed, they would really support the movement of some of the villages within this rural municipality. The truth is that the Meremägi, as far as I know, does not support the creation of Setu rural municipality on the council level. You were right to say that they would join in the Võru direction. With the moment, we know that Meremäe will not participate in any negotiations and Värska and Mikitamäe will also conclude talks with Räpina. So this issue must be considered very seriously by the government. I do not at all rule out asking for the help of the legislative authority at some point, because the law has laid down certain limits and these limits are perhaps so strong at the moment that, if, in theory, this is what Setu might want to do, it is legally very complex, if not impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U8	Arto Aas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U9	Thank you. I think you would be more correct to say that your criticism of the administrative reform law so far was hypocritical and meaningless because you have not changed any syllables in this law and you fully accept what was prepared in the previous government and also approved by the Supreme Court. Similarly, a division of tasks and a new financing model had already been prepared during the previous government, which your right-hand man, Urmas Reinsalu, started to delay because you had already made agreements to form a new government. But I would have expected the government to be more specific in its messages at the end of the year, so there would have been more volunteers. The local government leaders were given unclear and conflicting promises and the mergers were abandoned. Now you're going to deal with them yourself with the government. But I will conclude by asking whether the target is municipalities with 5,000 inhabitants or municipalities with 11000 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U10	Thank you, good questioner, esteemed Arto Aas! First, I'll start by thanking you. You did a very serious and strong job in your previous position. The fact that the administrative reform has come as far as it has been achieved makes your contribution significant. With regard to the criticism that you are making against me and my party, I can say that I am probably not wrong when I say that, in the opinion of the President-in-Office of the Government who gave his answers in this honourable chair in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, in five, six or seven years, administrative reform was not a problem at all, nor was it a problem in the opinion of the party he led. True, that opinion has changed. You're saying we didn't change anything in that law. Well, you gotta look at the whole picture. In the case of administrative reform, there is no need to look at just one law that gives local authorities rights, competences, responsibilities and funding. The new government coalition changed the whole picture very strongly. Once again, I recall the injustice that had really been in place since 2009 as a fall in the percentage of personal income tax, which had not been changed. Now there will be more funding, plus EUR 30 million. A school lunch can also be mentioned: municipalities have been given an obligation and have also been given more money. The fact that this amount is rising from EUR 0.78 to EUR 1, I think, is very important. The decision of the Supreme Court, of course, we will not change, we fully accept the Estonian judicial system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U12	The next question is for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U13	Thank you. Dear Minister, So far, structural policies in education have been aimed at optimising the school network and putting emphasis on the quality of education and the pay of teachers. The same has been suggested by both strategy papers and international experts from the OECD. Examples of OECD countries in Estonia are the smallest classes. Are you holding this line, or is there something about it changing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U14	Thank you, Head of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I must say that it was quite exciting to get the first question now that these roles have changed. I remember there was a minister named Ligi who always said that if the Question Time questions were known before, it would be good to come and answer. But I had to figure out what Jürgen Ligi wanted to ask about. But the question is very interesting, because indeed, we have had a very long debate about whether the resources should come from the school network to raise the pay of teachers or whether the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic should find a financial cover for this increase. I have to be honest here: indeed, the changes in 2017 voted here by the Riigikogu with the changes in the budget mean that there is a financial cover for the increase in the minimum rate for 2017 to EUR 1000 and for EUR 1050 from 1 September. The question is not that someone should close schools or, as they say, optimize within the school and let every other teacher go, so that every third teacher gets paid. However, if you ask what the future is, it is clear that the average number of children in primary schools is currently very low, such changes are taking place in education. But we are not putting pressure on teachers' salaries here, but the local government and the community will decide after the big mergers have taken place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U15	Jürgen Ligi, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U16	Thank you. Dear Minister, You said you were honest here, but when it came to reply, you took it very far from a direct question. After all, resources are always limited and there is no real alternative to optimization. The question is simply what to optimize for. I'm still asking if you're in favour of optimizing the school network. We have received money for this from European funds, and we have certain objectives as to how much space needs to be reduced. It is not designed to bully someone, but to achieve the optimal size of classes and the burden on teachers and the best learning environment, taking into account limited resources. You give the opposite signals and do not want to respond exactly on this subject. Try again. Did you...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U17	Thank you. Question time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U18	Thank you. Indeed, the rise in teachers' pay does not come this time on the road that the local government should close schools; it does not come at the expense of private schools, but thanks to the Coalition Agreement, which has agreed that 71 million more teachers' salaries will be added to education support during 2017, 2018 and 2019. We very much hope that this 71 million will be accompanied by an increase in the number of children, as it is a pleasure to note that there will also be an increase in the number of students in these three years, and that is really very good news. I am not basically willing to link the pay of teachers and the optimization of schools, because it is unfair for the local community to be told that they will be able to pay a good teacher in their school, at least at the minimum level, only if they optimize their school network. However, I stress that the measure you have spoken about is EUR 106 million. Nobody's changed that. We are pleased to note that now the Government of the Republic should be informed, on the basis of Innove points from the Ministry of Education and Research, of those schools that have significantly reduced their area. There is almost EUR 60 million here, and in the second measure we will continue to do so, these activities have not stopped. Secondly, as regards the major change, state secondary schools have been established in 12, in ten local communities these decisions have been made, county centres are covered. So the major changes that are supported by euro money are indeed under way. Thirdly, speaking of a major administrative reform, I would remind you that, to a very large extent, the merged municipalities have agreed not to change the school network immediately after accession. So there's definitely no change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U19	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a question about developing the school network in Tallinn. It is known that the pressure in Tallinn is quite high for schools located in the city centre. Which areas of Tallinn are planned to establish a state secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U21	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, this has been the most difficult issue in relations between the Ministry of Education and Tallinn concerning the general educational network. Tallinn has taken a very positive view of state secondary schools on some occasions in the last ten years and it has been agreed that two or three of them will come to Tallinn. There has been a period when these contacts were close to zero because the Minister of Education was not ready to meet the representatives of Tallinn. In the meantime, activities in Harjumaa have continued vigorously. I'm telling you my position isn't signed with Tallinn so we can go back to where we started about ten years ago, i.e. there should be at least three of these gymnasiums. It would be possible to talk about certain cover in Tallinn. Of course, this would not cover all upper secondary schools, as the number of upper secondaryists in Tallinn is significantly higher, but this would certainly ease the pressure on certain schools in the city centre, because it would then be possible to distribute primary school children more to existing premises. So we don't have a protocol of common intent, like there are many county centers. I intend to conclude it at the end of the month in Rakvere, Lääne-Virumaa, then only Tallinn and Kuressaare will be left, but there is an agreement in all the rest of the counties. In Tallinn, I hope, this question will be revealed within a month or a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U22	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U23	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! This question concerns the meetings of Yana Toom with Assad in Syria. When this last happened, you said very briefly that you were not familiar with the details of the visit. Yana Toom has said a lot about these details now. It has also turned out that Valentina Matvijenko already spoke on 20 December about such a visit to Syria with MEPs. If you look at the shots that were filmed there, you can clearly see that Yana Toom is not an independent member of Kossachov's side, but a member of the Russian delegation. In the light of these details, will you now make a clear political assessment of this event?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U25	Thank you, Honourable Asker. First of all, the overall assessment is that all that is happening in Syria is a humanitarian disaster. Estonia is clearly in agreement here with our partners in the European Union and also with NATO. We have expressed our view that Estonia is contributing as a Member State of the European Union in order to bring this humanitarian disaster to an end. Any humanitarian aid and the opportunity to ensure peace through diplomatic channels is certainly in the interests of the European Union and Estonia. Now from Yana Toom. Yana Toom certainly does not shape Estonian foreign policy. Yana Toom was elected to the European Parliament in the last European Parliament elections. If you ask me if I personally would have gone there, I will say no, I would never have gone there with this delegation. That's the answer. As far as I know, he was there as a Member of the European Parliament, and he has received a mandate from the people. What exactly he did and discussed there, I have no more information about it than has been published in the press.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U26	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It wouldn't be enough if you came up with the idea as Prime Minister to go there. I do, however, want to be assessed and somewhat clearer. I'll bring a parallel from history. Mr Thierry Mariani, former French minister, went to this delegation with Members of Parliament who were still newly annexed to Crimea, creating an international scandal. The fact that Yana Toomi around such a scandal has not arisen is probably due solely to the fact that she has not been a minister in a country as large as France. This is the only difference that I see between these events, given all the criminality that the Assad regime has committed, and the unacceptable, in my opinion, that the representative of a democratic state has taken a picture of him. But do you see any significant differences here? I don't see them in Thierry Marian and Yana Toom's behavior.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U28	Thank you. I will come back to this issue in Syria, perhaps in more detail. One of the responsibilities of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia is to attend the European Council, where I was in mid-December. There we jointly condemned the whole humanitarian disaster in Syria. There was also a speaker from Aleppost, the city's local government. He described this very monstrous picture. European leaders made a joint statement that same day to condemn the actions of Russia and Iran throughout Syria, of course Aleppos. If you ask whether or not this behaviour is different, I understand that you want a political assessment from me, as party chairman, my Prime Minister. I will do everything I can to put an end to the action that is taking place under the leadership of Russia and Iran in Syria. Estonia contributes to this with its allies in the European Union, and so it is. Period.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U29	Javier in clothing, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! It is clear that now that Yana Toom is not just a member of the European Parliament, but is still an influential politician of the Estonian Prime Minister's party, her moves and activities have a completely different weight. Now that you are a prime minister and no longer a member of the Riigikogu, the public expects and expects very specific and understandable value-based views on important foreign policy issues instead of general and general assessments. I'll make it very simple for you by asking two specific questions. Both questions can be answered yes or no. First of all, as party leader and prime minister, do you condemn Yana Toom's friendly relationship with the Syrian dictator? Secondly, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, do you condemn what Assad and Russia are doing by killing innocent civilians?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U31	Thank you. First of all, about this influential politician. As far as I know, Yana Toom herself has said that she does not shape Estonian foreign policy; other institutions do so. He's absolutely right about that. Secondly, it also does not shape the foreign policy directions of the Estonian Central Party. I don't think it matters at all whether a member of a party or the chairman of a party is a member of the Riigikogu or a member of the government. In both cases, it must be very clear about the answers and be specific. I understand you put me in a fork with these two questions in a good way or were hoping to put me in. But point 1, I think that friendly relations with the dictator and today's Syrian leader will not honor anyone, and I do not consider them right. Point 2, do I condemn, as you said, the activities of Assad and Russia in Syria? I'd add Iran to this. It has been agreed in the European Union that this joint statement concerning activities in Syria also applies to Iran. Of course, I condemn and not just condemn, but very strongly condemn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U32	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U33	The next question is the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U34	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Justice! For years, members of the Centre Party, while in opposition, submitted drafts to allow legal aid applications to be made in a language other than the national language, or Estonian, mainly meant Russian. For years, a national party called the Fatherland and Res Publica Union had opposed it and also voted against it. But now that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have joined the Centre Party, the position of the IRL has suddenly changed, and they have passed this proposal. Hence the question: what changed this political direction over the long years? Secondly, why is it so legal that the law says'more common other language'? Can you present a legal aid application at the expense of the state in Ukrainian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U35	Thank you. Your claims are deliberately false. The law, which has previously been in force and is still in force in Estonia, says that our official language, as well as the language of legal proceedings, is Estonian. In court proceedings, the processing of all documents takes place in Estonian. The State Legal Aid Act in force in 2005 provided for legal aid applications in any of the world's languages to be translated in court and continued to be processed in Estonian. This law was repealed in 2005 because it was a concern that it would burden court proceedings, and it was not done for language policy reasons. The situation is now that, in criminal proceedings, it is accepted by the current version as well as by the version in force before, regardless of the language in which it is presented when a person applies for legal aid and is legally entitled to it. The same is done in administrative court proceedings: a person's application, whatever the language it is, will be translated. In civil practice, these views differ. This summer, the Chancellor of Justice pointed out that things had to be clearly set out by law and suggested considering the version of the law in force in 2005. We have already discussed this during the previous government, and we have taken the view that a change is necessary, but it must not in any way undermine the fact that all legal proceedings must be conducted in Estonian. In order for it to be rational and not to be presented in 100 or 200 languages, which is theoretically possible, the wording was chosen that only more common languages would be translated, including the Ukrainian language indicated in the draft explanatory memorandum. I don't see anything abnormal here. Translation of certain exotic languages is not reasonable from an economic point of view. This means that if the application is submitted, it will be translated and only documents in Estonian will be in the process. So your argument is misleading, in essence it is not true.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U36	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U37	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, your answer is not misleading, but a lie. I am not talking about the language of the case, I am not talking about changing the national language, I am talking about submitting an application for legal aid. I'm sure there's no trace of the principles left, I guess they're all gone. I am not talking about submitting applications in all languages, but more common languages. But lying to lie. On 20 October 2015, you said that the cooperation agreement with the United Russia was not a minor matter, but a red line of Estonianism. Why, then, have you sold your Estonian mind if it is not a small matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U38	Thank you. I stick to my view that the presumption of legal aid in your question is not true. You quoted me, and this quote is correct. Yeah, those questions aren't a little bit of a question. As far as state policy is concerned, the policy of the Government of the Republic is unambiguous and clear. This is not done on the basis of any cooperation agreements, but the government to which I belong cooperates on the basis of the national and security interests of Estonia. As regards the way in which the parties express their views, I am pleased that the Centre Party, now a member of the government and following the course of the new leaders, has also made clear assessments of this treaty's distancing. It's no small matter, it's a matter of principle. [[The excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U39	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U40	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Yesterday, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, you made it clear that your aim is less regulation, which could mean that there should be more trust. But the change that was made in the State Legal Aid Act does not serve this purpose. After you came the Minister of the Interior of the Commission, who said that a similar amendment to the Arms Act would also be made to allow Estonia to take a weapons examination in the most common languages. Has the government taken the view that regulations should be introduced so that different transactions can be made in the most common languages in Estonia? Isn't that similar to what we saw in the previous composition of the union law when every word we received in Google was slashed? I mean, a registered partnership.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U41	With regard to such claims concerning the Cohabitation Act, practice has shown that they were misleading. Publicity was misled and deliberately done, it was done on the wrong lips, not the truth on the lips. As regards the State Legal Aid Act and whether or not it caused any additional burden, it did not. I would point out that the practice in both criminal and administrative proceedings was such that these translations were made. True, there was no clear definition of the extent to which these translations would be made. We have defined the scope, the number of these languages cannot reach infinity; this requirement cannot cover all the languages that are at the disposal of mankind. There were different practices in civil proceedings, the Chancellor of Justice pointed this out, and we gave it a single answer. As far as the arms law is concerned, the Government of the Republic has not taken any specific decisions on the weapons examination or application. I think that, according to the law of weapons, we need to fulfil two objectives. Firstly, we must bear in mind the security interests of our country, which is a very clear and legitimate objective. Secondly, the interests of those who, as bona fide citizens, possess and use weapons, whether in voluntary defence or as hunters or collectors, must not be unduly restricted and damaged. These two things must continue to be taken into account when dealing with the Arms Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U43	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I'm coming back to Yana Toom's visit. You've already had a chance to evaluate it several times, but I haven't heard that so far. You said that Yana Toom did not shape Estonian foreign policy. This is true on the one hand, but foreign policy is shaped, among other things, by the Prime Minister, and foreign policy is shaped by positions. So I ask you straight: do you condemn Yana Toom's visit to Syria today and the meeting with President Assad? I would like to point out that the Latvian Minister for Foreign Affairs and the President have condemned the participation of Tatiana Ždanoka in this same visit with his statement. They both felt that this visit would undermine the unity of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U45	Thank you, good questioner! You are right in that sense that I have really given an answer to this question here a few minutes ago, answering the third question. Member of the Riigikogu Andres Herkel also asked about foreign policy and he also had a question about Syria and Yana Toom. But, of course, I will answer that question again. Just as I answered Andres Herkel, a member of the Riigikogu, no, I would say, a friendship that is currently being sought in Syria with the Assad power or with its partners, whether Iran or Russia, cannot be approved or tolerated under any circumstances. I think that Estonia, on the one hand, as a country, but also as a member of the European Union, supports all political and diplomatic efforts to end the humanitarian disaster, ensure humanitarian aid and put an end to the war.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U46	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U47	Thank you. Prime Minister! During my foreign policy activities, I also found it necessary to make sure that Estonia's views were more well-founded than they had been so far. The new government, which has promised not to change course, has maintained its agreement with the United Russia and has, unlike Latvia, not condemned the visit of a Member of the European Parliament to Syria. On 9 December, at the time of drafting the Baltic Ministerial Declaration, the government took the position that the wording must be softer towards Russia. Don't you have a little discomfort? Why are you doing this? Why has Estonia now joined countries that soften the stance, although they have always been too soft towards Russia, it has always been difficult to find a consensus in Europe in order to give a fair and clear assessment...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U49	Okay. Thank you, Honourable Asker. You said that we have said, or it seems to you that we have said that we are not changing the course of foreign policy. Yes, we have said that foreign policy action must be strengthened. So in any case, there's a change in the positive direction, on the scale upwards. What does that mean? This, on the one hand, always means adding financial resources, for example, to our External Action Service. The new government has dared to say that the foreign service of the Republic of Estonia must also be strengthened and additional financial resources provided for. That's what we do. The three parties have also agreed, in my view, in a strong consensus, that in addition to 2% of GDP and the costs of accepting allies, we must also include support for defence investments. Here is the common position that investment in the defence policy will certainly increase in the next, the next and the next 2020 period. However, change is in this direction rather than rather, but certainly in that direction, in order to strengthen our External Action Service and defence policy. You asked about the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers on 9 December; you referred to this. I'm running out of time soon, but I'll say a few words. On the contrary, this statement or joint declaration, which was led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was discussed before signing for weeks, if not months. It was my request to bring this to the meeting of the Cabinet, and that wording was strengthened, not softened.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U51	The next question is asked by Krista Aru, Minister for Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Our kindergarten teachers do a great job. At the same time, we know that their wages are sometimes ridiculously low, and these wages vary greatly from region to region. In this year's state budget, some millions of euros are earmarked for distribution to the Ministry of Education. The Minister of Finance had no way of explaining to us what algorithm or principle these millions would be distributed. What do you want to do with the money? How it is shared is a key issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U53	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, a very legitimate approach to the subject. We in the Ministry of Education and Research are also still trying to agree which draft regulation or maybe even draft law to propose to the Riigikogu or to the relevant parties. Yesterday, too, we had several hours of discussion about what this offer could be like. Versions can certainly change because we are asking for the opinion of representatives of local governments, kindergarten teachers and kindergarten managers, as well as the presidents and associations of sub-unions. I'll refer to it in a few seconds. Less than 53% of the national average wage, i.e. basically less than 53% of the teacher's salary already established on 1 January, is paid in a large number of municipalities, speaking of percentages. If you look at it, more than 70% of this salary is paid in most municipalities. In our time, we were of the opinion that this difference could be a fewty percent, but unfortunately the gap is much larger. What are the suggestions? Firstly, agree with the local authorities that, if they agreed from 1 September to start on 1 September, they would have to set a minimum threshold of at least 70 to 80% of the teacher's minimum wage, it would be possible to pay them a coefficient-based allowance as a result of the financial capacity of the local government. This is how it would go on, and by the beginning of 2020, we would reach 100%. How much local authorities come with it, we can see that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U54	Thank you. Krista Aru, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Last spring, the Association of Kindergartens approached the Committee on Culture with a proposal that the state could set a minimum national wage for kindergarten teachers equal to the minimum wage for primary school and upper secondary school teachers. How do you feel about this proposal, and are you going to take any action here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U56	Thank you, good questioner! I still think personally, and also as a minister, that this would be my first choice. The possibilities also depend on cooperation with the Minister of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, currently sitting on my left. We need to agree that if we give local authorities more money, to what extent we can then give them precepts or at least agreeable precepts. This means that we would impose in law the obligation to set minimum rates. We could not provide national minimum rates, but the lawyers of the Ministry of Education think that there could be a discussion in the Riigikogu as to whether to impose minimum rates. If we also give more money, there is hope that the representatives of local authorities will come along with this approach. Of course, this comes with the first and most important issue, which we have been discussing in the Committee on Culture for years. If we look at our preferences, I would like to see this kind of target money released in education and given more money down to local governments, so I say below, i.e. at local government level. These would include the support services that we will certainly discuss here in the future, the pay of kindergarten teachers, school meals, notebooks, further training, as well as salaries under the basic school and upper secondary school law. There would be a number of agreed obligations. Then we will be able to see that the local government can also make a real decision. Education money is a significant part of the entire local government budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U57	Martin Helme, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U58	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Madam Minister! Our question about role-playing is the 12th, and we certainly will not get to that, so I will try to deal with it in such a way that I do not go out of the scope of the current issue. In Estonia, it is believed that education policy is when we talk endlessly about wages. In fact, education policy still means what is the content of the education that is given in our schools and other childcare facilities. The public has now learned that there is a plan to engage in the indoctrination of the left-hand radical multiple in Estonian schools in order to popularise immigration. So I ask you this: do you think that Estonia's voters have given a mandate to do this? Secondly, is this activity included in teachers' salaries or must it be paid separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U59	I understand that, in principle, Eiki Nestor would be able to say that this question does not correspond to the current issue. But since this subject has risen so painfully, I think it is right to respond, if you will. This topic approach, which has been very acutely raised in January, especially through social media, clearly shows that the decision taken here in the Riigikogu about ten years ago to leave all the educational resources (workbooks, teaching materials and also textbooks used by our young people in schools, both in Estonian and in other languages) to be managed purely by a market economy, has led to the fact that there is no real control of this field in the Ministry of Education. At present, the publishers are responsible for this matter, who say that everything is in line with the curriculum. We have non-profit organisations, several human rights organisations and international organisations involved in this sharp raise. This multicultural approach, to which you referred, is also from the Council of Europe and the United Nations Refugee Organisations, for example. These materials have been translated into Estonian. They are all available as one educational tool. You can find conflicting sentences in different teaching materials. But I believe that we will come to the Committee on Culture in the near future with a question as to whether we should re-create a real view of what our teaching tools are and if the learning tool is supposed to be in line with the curriculum, whether it should be examined either in the Committee on Subjects or in the Advisory Committee at the Ministry. That's a serious question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U60	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U61	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U62	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! According to the poll, most people would like to have the President directly elected. The Centre Party has submitted a draft of this to the Riigikogu 13 times, the last time with the EKRE. The Centre Party has now withdrawn its signatures from the bill and it has fallen out of the proceedings. I am amazed at the ease with which the Centre Party has exchanged views when it comes to power. Let us recall the administrative reform, the law of two chairs, the rise in excise duties, the cluster law, Rail Baltic, etc. In the run-up to the 100-year anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, the democraticisation of society on the issue of the election of the President was now turned away. As Prime Minister, can you assure us that the Centre Party and the IRL are not puppets in the government that operates under sotsi dictations and carries out left-liberal ideology? Looks like it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U63	Thank you, good questioner! I think, first of all, that either you or you and your good assistants should be commended for drawing up such an interesting and humorous question, but I will try to answer. As your former head of self-government, this issue of administrative reform is close to your heart. Let's think about the time a few years ago. If you, as mayor, had knocked on the door, for example, the representative of the Government of the Republic, be it the Prime Minister or the Minister, and had said that there was such a plan in the government to help local authorities pay their salaries to teachers, the aim would be to restore the income base of local governments by allocating a percentage of personal income tax to them in their former size, the plan is that local authorities themselves should be able to organise public transport within their county, and also to create opportunities for this to be done free of charge, the aim is to increase the school lunch allowance from 0.78 euro cents to EUR 1 and raise teachers' salaries, then, Mr Mayor, what would you have expected? I dare say that most of the local government leaders would have said that this was a good plan, and they naturally support it. This is what the three parties, one of which is the Centre Party, are now doing in the government. Now for the President's direct election. No, of course we haven't given up on this idea. This will continue to be the position of the Centre Party. We believe that the system for electing the President must definitely be changed, as demonstrated by the last presidential elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U64	Henn Põllaas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U65	Thank you. I understand, of course, that you do not want to answer the question of whether the Centre Party and the IRL are puppets in the left-wing government. But I'm coming back to the presidential election procedure. I still did not understand whether the Centre Party would maintain its position that the right to elect a President should be given to the people. What is the bill that the government is currently working on? I remember very well how the Prime Minister of the Centre Party promised that the opposition's opinion and good proposals would also be taken into account. So what about the new procedure for electing the President?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U66	Thank you, good questioner! I apologise for not being able to say in the first response whose government the IRL and the Centre Party are in. In short, I think that the three political parties are all in the Estonian government. Everything is in this government, where the highest power is exercised by the people of Estonia, the people of Estonia carry both in accordance with our constitution and in everyday life. Now for the President's direct election. The Government of the Republic has developed and adopted its programme of activities. One of the fundamental principles of the Government Union is that changes must be made to the procedure for electing the President. This is the duty of the Ministry of Justice, and these changes must come up in the first months of this year. If you ask if the Centre Party has withdrawn from its positions, I will say that we certainly have not withdrawn from them. On the contrary, we believe that the right thing to do is to elect the President of the Republic of Estonia by the people of Estonia. But we need to understand that, in order for this to happen, it is also necessary to reach a consensus in this Chamber and to have it approved at the level of the Government of the Republic. Speaking from a party's point of view, if I may express it here, because that is what you asked, I say that we certainly have not retreated one gram from the idea that the President of the Republic of Estonia in the future may and must be chosen by the person of Estonia, by the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U67	Kalle Palling, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U68	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, good George! I'm also happy to ask about the retreat. I ask this because Urmas Reinsalu, who is sitting between you and the Vice-Chairman of the Central Party, Mailis Reps, has said that the Centre Party has decided to withdraw from the Treaty with United Russia or at least to move away from it. I ask what happened after two important dates. What has happened since 20 October 2015 when Urmas Reinsalu said that the agreement with United Russia is a fundamental red line of Estonianism? And what happened after 8 December last year when Mailis Reps said on "Two speeches" that the Centre Party did not dare to abandon the Treaty with United Russia? I think it would just be a bold step to say and admit that you did not dare to abandon this agreement. Perhaps you would also advise Urmas Reinsalu that if you dare to do so, you should admit it. If you sold the red line of Estonianism to get to the government and raise the ratings, admit it!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U70	Thank you, dear Kalle Palling, good Kalle! First of all, after these dates, a great deal has happened in the personal lives of all of us, and also in the lives of the Government of the Republic, the coalition has changed, etc. But all right, that wasn't a question. In my opinion, Urmas Reinsalu replied very clearly that the IRL and he personally belong to a government that is pro-Estonian and that stands for our culture, our language, our people, our country and our independence to remain, remain and be sustainable. Both the Social Democrats and the Centre Party want to be part of such a government. I believe that we do not differ in this respect from any party in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. This is, of course, a very high value and it has been the wise decision of the Estonian people from elections to elections when they have given a mandate to political parties. I have said my opinion on this protocol several times, and I believe that the representative of the IRL, Urmas Reinsalu, thought the same thing. Yeah, I admit again here that this protocol is currently frozen, it doesn't work, it's off the table. There are many words that characterize them. I think the question is whether you actually believe what I say or not. Since we have worked together here for so long in this honourable Riigikogu building and in the legislative assembly, I very much hope that you will take my words seriously and believe me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U72	Less than three minutes left. Aivar Sõerdi's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! On Monday, the Ministry of Finance announced the collection of tax revenue for the previous year. Rapid wage growth, high employment, low unemployment and high domestic consumption will boost tax revenues. So, in spite of weak economic growth, tax revenues are extremely good. In such a situation, is it really time to start changing the basic budget law so that the deficit of the state budget can be allowed to fall back from the balance rule laid down in the current law? It is obviously irresponsible to spend more than the state can afford in the event of exceptionally good tax revenues. Where does your confidence come from that the good times will last forever, there will be no setbacks in the world economy, and in the future there will be no situations in which the state will be forced to borrow in order to repay the debt that has been taken in the past and to meet the growing commitments every year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U74	Thank you, good questioner! You said that in several months of last year, I understood your question so that it was weak economic growth. This was one of the reasons why economic and business policies had to be changed at national level. I promise that the current government will do everything in its power to improve the business environment and thus stimulate our economic growth. We both understand that Estonia is an open economy, and it is also very important how our partners and our immediate neighbours are doing. Now this equilibrium rule. I understand Question Time is about to end, but I'm gonna take care of two things. There is no point in the current government, even on this corner of the table it did not make sense that if you took out a loan, these loans, let alone the euro, could be spent on running costs. No, there is no principle. If you borrow, it is only to invest in improving the business and economic climate. The balancing rule is a very clear principle agreed upon. It has been said that Estonia keeps the state budget in structural balance as an average. There will certainly be no deviation from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U75	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! Thank you, Minister of Education Mailis Reps! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U76	Hello again! The session of the first working week of the V plenary session will open on Wednesday. Andres Ammas opens the handover of pre-requisites and enquiries. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U77	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! From time to time, the faction of the Free Party has raised the subject of supplementing the social tax law in this Chamber, namely the so-called'social tax ceiling'. We had been given such a draft in the process, but we took it back in December, at the time of the change of government, to give the new government coalition reasonable time to get back to the subject. Today, however, we are putting it back into the procedure so that the coalition can shape its position. In the meantime, a number of economic journalists, entrepreneurs and business organisations have expressed their support for this idea in one way or another. We hope that this draft will be examined and that this idea will be re-examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U78	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U79	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I will give the Riigikogu two draft decisions to exchange our representatives in the Gambling Tax Council and the Guarantee Fund Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U80	Thank you. I have adopted three drafts to be dealt with under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U81	Let's start working on the Wednesday agenda items. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaasa, Andres Metsoja, Tanel Talve and Kristjan Kõljala and related amendments to other laws. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission, if he is here somewhere. It is. Sorry, my bad! I'm not used to new places, I'm used to looking for you out here. Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws was initiated by members of the Riigikogu Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Metsoja, Andres Ammas, Kristjan Kõljalg, Henn Põlluaas and Tanel Talve on 6 June 2016. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session began on 18 October 2016 and continued on 19 October and the first reading was completed. The main objective of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws is to ensure access to the physical infrastructure suitable for the deployment of the broadband network, which is electricity poles owned by the electricity distribution system operators. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws at its meeting on 13 December 2016 and also on 9 January 2017. The amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions were taken. A member of the Riigikogu, Andres Metsoja, was represented as the initiators of the draft and Olav Harjo as an expert. The draft has undergone technical and linguistic organization in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and changes resulting from the language editor's comments have been introduced into the text of the draft. Let me now briefly talk about the amendments. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 2 November 2016 at 12:00, four amendments were received from the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu. Elektrilevi OÜ, VKG Elektrivõrgud and the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association (ITL) also addressed the Commission in writing. Elektrilevi OÜ has proposed to include a provision that allows for a fair reasonable fee for the sharing of physical infrastructure to be charged and to waive the deadline for replying to the request for sharing set out in the draft. In its letter, VKG's electricity networks expressed concerns about possible disputes arising from the maintenance or repair of electricity stations and the sharing of the costs necessary to carry out these works. The VKG also considered that the payment for the farm obligation should be distributed equally among the joint users. The Commission discussed the problems raised and the proposals made, but did not support these proposals, in particular because network management costs were already borne by the consumer in the form of network charges and double taxation was not considered reasonable. ITL's written position supported the solution proposed in the draft. The written opinions submitted to the Commission are available on the website of the Riigikogu. The Commission supported all the proposals on the list of amendments. Amendment 1 was tabled by the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu and changes the title of the draft. An amendment to the Law of Property Law Act and to the Law on the expropriation of immovable property was included in the Bill; therefore, there are more than three laws to be amended by the Bill. According to the norm technique rule, the title of all the laws to be amended must be mentioned in the title of the draft and, if there are more than three, the title of the law to be amended shall be mentioned in the title of the draft, the amendment of which is due to the principal purpose of the draft and to which the amendment of other laws relates. Amendment 2 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and amends the wording of § 701 to be incorporated into the Electricity Market Act. Since the Riigikogu has adopted the Act on the Implementation of the Construction Code, the Construction Code and the Planning Act and the Amending Act on State Fees (250 SE), which already regulates the introduction of infrastructure for different network owners for the construction of a high-speed electronic communications network and which is a general rule, it is not reasonable or appropriate to repeat the same regulation in the Electricity Market Act. Therefore, the solution proposed is that Paragraph 701 (1) of the Electricity Market Act obliges the distribution system operator to provide its physical infrastructure for the construction of the broadband network, with the right to recover direct costs, which is a special rule compared to those laid down in the Construction Code. Paragraph 2 already refers to the Building Code, which provides for the submission and settlement of an application, the grounds for refusal and the settlement of disputes. Amendments 3, 4 and 6 have been tabled by the special committee on the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu. Since a large part of the air routes have been built before 1 April 1999 and are subject to a farm obligation, they are not affected by an amendment to the regulation on personal rights of use. The proposed amendments will cover the sub-use of land-use legalised under-utilised by the law and the obligation to farm. As a result of the amendments, old, statutory power lines can also be used to build a broadband network. Amendment 5 follows from the editorial remark. The draft amended the annexes to the Construction Code and the text 'and the installation of cables on existing posts and buildings' was added to the brackets for line installations. The language editor pointed out that the list of items and items cannot be excluded from the activities which led to the text being amended as follows: 'and cable installed and installed on existing posts and buildings'. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs with a view to postponing the deadline for the entry into force of the Act, which, according to the original version of the draft, was on 1 January 2017. The amendment stipulates that the Act will enter into force on 1 March 2017. The commission adopted the following procedural decisions: send a bill 270 to the Riigikogu for second reading by 11 January 2017 with a proposal to stop the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, send a bill 270 to the third reading by 18 January and put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U83	Questions for the waitress. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U84	Thank you. I have no questions about specific amendments. I think this draft is sensible and deserves to be supported. But the question is more general. When the new government took office, he promised that now the ultra fast Internet would be taken to every home. We understand it was actually a little bluff or naivety due to incompetence. There are no hundreds of millions of this amount in the state budget, nor has the coalition compiled in Excel's expense table. But has the Commission come up with further information during the procedure for this draft, how and at what pace this ultra-fast internet will reach every household?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U85	Thank you. This issue was not discussed in the Commission. However, as far as the general objectives are concerned, they are the result of the 'Estonian Information Society Development Plan 2020', which they have already been written in for a long time. I wonder why they haven't been much dealt with so far. However, as far as the price is concerned, we hope that it is thanks to this bill that the price will go down significantly and that we will have to find not hundreds of millions more, but significantly smaller amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U86	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll pick up where a good colleague ended up. We all know that it is important for the Internet to be available in rural areas, especially if we are looking at new jobs for the future. However, in your opinion, this legislative amendment will provide an opportunity to build this infrastructure at a lower cost in the future, and how much will it accelerate the achievement of the final result? What's your personal assessment of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U88	Thank you. I think that this draft will speed up this process quite significantly, because it will no longer be necessary to draw up projects for the carriage of optical cables and to carry out lengthy coordination, but it will be sufficient for the cable to be transported in compliance with the technical conditions set by the owner of the infrastructure, without any additional bureaucratic steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U89	Thank you, Erki Savisaar! I'm opening negotiations. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U90	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As Mr Aas has already said, and as the rapporteur said, this is generally a sensible draft. The Reform Party has supported this. It will certainly be positive if all these infrastructure objects can be used to build this last mile or to take the so-called ultra-fast internet home. Personally, I predict that, in the future, fast connections will probably be more mobile in the interests of the consumer, but we can discuss this for a long time. So in general, the direction is reasonable. We need to move on with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U91	There's no more calls. Seven amendments to draft 270 have been tabled, and we will review them. They're all accounted for. The first is from the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the second is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the third is from the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the fourth is from the Special Committee on State Budget Control, the fifth is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, the sixth is from the Special Committee on State Budget Control and the seventh is from the Committee on Economic Affairs. On the proposal of the commission, the second reading of the draft 270 has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U92	The first reading of the Bill 340 of Amendment to the Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. The initiator's waitress is Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I wish you a pleasant year of working in the Riigikogu! For me, today is a first-time experience in another profession. But let me now briefly introduce the draft law amending the law on the organisation of the rural and agricultural markets. The Rural and Agricultural Market Organisation Act lays down national measures for the balanced development of the agricultural market, the supply of high-quality food to consumers, the cost-effective production of agricultural products, the development of other economic activities in rural areas and the provision of a fair standard of living for rural inhabitants, as well as the basis and scope of monitoring the implementation of these national measures. There are three main reasons for amending the current law: to lay the foundations for implementing regional programmes, to modernise and clarify State aid, de minimis aid and other support, and to lay down requirements to limit the spread of wind oat. First of all, regional programmes. Regional programmes for rural development The Setomaa and Peipsiveere development programme and the Võro and Mulgi development grants were transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Rural Affairs by Order No 231 of the Government of the Republic of Estonia No 231 of 29 May 2015 entitled 'Action Programme of the Government of the Republic 2015 to 2019'. The current procedures for applying for grants under regional programmes have worked well. There is currently no need to change the application procedure. The reason for the amendment is that the abovementioned programmes and development grants were previously implemented on the basis of a general mandate, including the Ministry's Statute, which according to the Ministry of Rural Affairs is not sufficient as a legal basis. The draft therefore provides for a proper legal framework for the implementation of regional programmes, but no substantive changes are foreseen in the grant procedure. The draft provides that the regional programme may be implemented through a national foundation with sufficient experience. As this is a public task, an administrative contract is concluded between the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the regional donor, who implements the regional programme. So far, the application has been processed by the EAS, which has the necessary experience and competence to carry out the tasks authorised by the bill. According to the draft, regional programmes may be established on the basis of a decree issued by the Minister for Rural Affairs for several years. However, the granting of real support in the financial year depends on whether the state budget has funds for this purpose. This means that each year it is decided on the basis of an order from the Minister for Rural Affairs to grant aid and its size separately. The draft law also sets out the content requirements for regional programmes. The regional programme shall set out the objectives and general principles of the programme, the area of implementation of the programme, the requirements to be eligible for support, the conditions and procedures for approval of the action plan, the rate and amount of support, the operations supported and the eligible and non-eligible expenditure, the deadline for submission of the application, the content or form of the application, the procedure for examining and examining the application, the prior application, the composition and the rules of procedure of the programme council, the grounds for rejection, the conditions and procedures for granting and payment of the aid and the obligations of the beneficiary. Now state aid and de minimis aid. The amendment of the State aid and de minimis provisions will update the references to European Union legislation and specify the nature of the aid. The law will be brought into line with the transparency requirement for State aid under EU law that has entered into force since 1 July 2016. To this end, it provides for the provision and disclosure of data on beneficiaries of State aid on a website set up by the European Commission. If the amount of State aid granted to one beneficiary of State aid exceeds the threshold laid down in European Union law of EUR 60000 for primary agricultural production, it shall be entered in that register. In Estonia, 10 measures on agricultural State aid are currently covered by transparency requirements. These are purely national support measures, as the transparency requirement does not apply to agricultural aid granted under rural development programme measures. As a general rule, the amounts of agricultural aid are expected to be less than EUR 60000. Currently, data disclosure is only foreseen for State aid to cover the costs of the eradication of African swine fever and the destruction of carcasses. Now I'm talking about a wind oat. The draft also amends the provisions on limiting the spread of wind oat contained in Chapter 6 of the current Act. The current regime does not help to limit the spread of wind oat and therefore the spread of wind oat has not decreased. Wind oat pollution increases crop losses, i.e. loss of revenue, each year. Wind oat spreads as seeds, and therefore the control of wind oat is effective only if control is carried out in a complex manner by all land users. The aim of the amendment is to motivate land users to take measures to prevent the propagation of windmills. According to the draft, the administrative burden on landowners will be significantly reduced and the control measures will become more substantial. The obligation to inform the Agricultural Office of the wind oat and to draw up and submit a plan for the eradication of wind oat to the Agricultural Office for approval shall be abolished. It also removes the obligation to submit an application for exemption from wind oat in the agricultural array. At the same time, measures to control wind oat, which has become difficult to control, are becoming more substantial. In order to prevent the spread of wind oat more effectively, the concept of spreadable oat and what is considered as distribution is defined. The farmer's obligations for the exclusion of wind oat shall be specified. Certified seed for sowing and crop rotation and crop rotation should be used in future to prevent the spread of wind oat compared to the requirements in force. It is also necessary to monitor the importance not only of cleaning agricultural machinery and equipment used on agricultural land contaminated by wind oat, but of cleaning agricultural machinery and equipment contaminated by wind oat in all circumstances prior to use and, where appropriate, of informing other persons of possible contamination. Fermentable wind oat seeds shall be destroyed either by incineration or by any other appropriate means. In conclusion, according to the draft, the administrative burden on landowners will be significantly reduced and the control measures will become more substantial. Changing the control measures for wind oat will help to reduce areas contaminated by wind oat and prevent the spread of that plant. The implementation of the Act does not entail any additional costs for the state budget in combating wind oat, nor does it entail any new revenue. Part of the Act amending the Act will enter into force on 1 April 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U94	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U95	Thank you, Chairman. Good colleague, good to see you on the remote. The first question, doesn't it seem to you that if we regulate regional aid in one draft, together with regulating the spread of wind oat, this is another 'cobar bill'? The other thing, do you really believe that by law, a wind oar disappears from the fields? I can see from the positive side that the administrative burden is decreasing and that there is no need for any more stupid reports and often a'pencil-suckle' report. But by tightening the law, will the wind oar really disappear from our fields? Wouldn't a farmer's awareness be enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U96	Thank you, Arthur. Good question. Surely the purpose of the law is not to punish anyone. As a result of the amendment of the law, farmers will have much less red tape. They no longer have to present, for example, a five - year plan to combat the wind oat. That's actually what comes back to the farmer's awareness. That is the purpose of the law to reduce red tape. For example, early this year, farmers should have presented a five - year plan on how they intend to fight the wind oat. This obligation is no longer applicable from 1 April. This is very important to farmers and they have long been waiting for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U97	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a lot of strength for you in your position. My question is also the question of an ignorant person, but I don't understand. There are regional programmes in this draft, which are very important, the Peipsivere programme, the Setomaa programme, and the wind oar, and then there is the internship support in the field of agriculture and rural economy, which you did not talk about at all. What are we dealing with here? All issues are important, I believe that these regional programmes, traineeships, etc. are particularly important. Is this a cluster law we're dealing with now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U99	Thank you, Krista! No, it's definitely not a cluster law. I'm gonna be honest and honest. A deadline is approaching when farmers are required to submit these plans. In order to save farmers from this, these things had to be connected and resolved quickly, for somehow this solution has been delayed. I hope that there will be no need to read two completely different concepts here in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U100	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns regional programmes. The new government has provided farmers with quite large sums of money for certain activities, but I have not noticed that the government would have meant rural areas in general, including regional programmes. Correct me if I'm wrong! Does the new government consider these programmes to be important and did it provide additional funding for these programmes? In my opinion, regional programmes, be it the Setomaa or the Peipsivere programme or the old Võrumaa cultural programme, are certainly very important in order for life on the ground to be sustainable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U102	Thank you for your questions, former Minister Urmas. Today, I'm based on the amount of money you and your government have written into the Ministry's budget. After all, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, i.e. rural farmers, received an additional EUR 38.2 million, which can be treated as additional aid. I think that if farmers are supported through this, this support will extend to all village life and rural areas. The amounts of the programmes could no longer be changed, but we will definitely review them in the future. I think that when we draw up next year's budget for 2018, there will be a completely different amount of money here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U103	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U104	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I also need some support from the previous speakers. Indeed, this bill is like the field of a poor master, where there is also a wind oat. My question is motivated by an explanatory memorandum which says that the current law has not reduced the spread of wind oat and from your words that legislative changes will motivate the spread of wind oat to be reduced. At the same time, you also said that the State did not incur any costs or revenues from the draft. What's the motivation anyway? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U105	The motivation is to reduce red tape. But with the bill, the way the wind oat is being pushed out becomes more substantial. Each farmer's motivation is that if he rejects the wind oat, he basically gets a profit. As you know, wind oat reduces yield, i.e. the company's income, so that the company has a direct interest in combating it. If he doesn't fight it, I'll ask him why he's sowing fruit at all. This is an interest in the direct economic activity of the undertaking. If the field is contaminated with wind oat, it will significantly reduce the yield. So the farmer has a direct interest here in any case and motivation, too, because the less wind oat, the greater the yield and the greater the amount on the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U106	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U107	Thank you. Minister, I congratulate you on your new job. Power and success! I very much believe that all regional programmes should continue, including the Setomaa programme. You read out all the requirements for applicants, etc. It is not as if the application procedure should change. But you didn't touch at all on the communication, transparency and publicity of this program. There have been situations where people in Setumaa, for example, do not know which projects are funded by these programmes, they do not have information about it. My first question is what publicity should be and how to inform the public about which projects are funded from the programmes. As I myself belong to the Committee on Rural Affairs, I have a proposal for you to convene representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the EAS and the Commission, so that the whole procedure can be examined jointly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U108	Thank you, Inara! I agree with you that it is absolutely necessary to clarify and make public, especially the use of the money provided by the taxpayer. So let's discuss it. I can tell you, Inara, that neither the money for the Setomaa programme has decreased this year, there is exactly the same amount as last year. We have not reduced these programmes, but there was no possibility of increasing the programme money. Perhaps there will be some more programmes in the future, but this is our joint work. I hope that these will be reflected in next year's budget. However, why these programmes were listed there was linked to the way in which State aid is treated within the meaning of the State Aid Act. This programme and programme amounts are not directly concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U109	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U110	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I can certainly congratulate you, because there is certainly a need to reduce the bureaucracy of agriculture in its nature, which concerns the European Union's common agricultural policy as a whole. So I am pleased that the new government will also continue the efforts and negotiations of previous governments in order to reduce red tape. At the same time, you know that members of the Riigikogu go around Estonia. People have approached me, too. I am asking, in view of the fact that large sums have been allocated directly to agriculture and the question has arisen as to whether rural areas in the wider sense are still a priority, because this approach is certainly wider in the European context as well. You expressed the opinion that there must be an increase in funding for the programmes. That's why I'm asking you a question. Can you confirm that this will certainly happen in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U111	Thank you, Urmas, for asking again. I agree with you, and I thank you as the previous minister. There is a great deal of good work done in the Ministry, even though you were not supported by politicians, such as the top-up, etc. I have never said that the Minister was responsible for this. Anyway, thank you and congratulate you! There are good people at work there, and there's good work done there. But all of this depends on whether the next year's budget reflects rural areas in a wider sense. It's not just the coalition's work. If the opposition also supports it, we will, of course, see the wider countryside. I am thinking of the programmes and the ways in which rural funding is being financed, whether there are only soft measures, whether there are swings, bonfire sites, etc., or whether there are substantial activities. It's being discussed. Of course, rural life is a much broader concept than efficient agricultural production.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U112	Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U113	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will somewhat continue the Terje Trei question on the wind oat. Here it was stressed several times that there would be no additional financial expenditure, less bureaucracy and that farmers, as they are motivated to obtain more harvest, would be better able to cope with this wind oat. However, I ask you, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the following question. There are almost 2,000 of the land users who are plagued by wind oars. Do you have their opinion on this amendment? Does it make their lives easier? Does it make them happy? I'm just asking for a human interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U114	Thank you, Urve! That's a good question. I love that during the new government, more and more attention has been paid to rural and agriculture. I see that the number of questions that are being asked today is large, and these are substantive questions. Actually, that was a good question. You said there were 2,000 of those farmers. Of course, this lobby has not been convened, because this bill does not directly offend them in any way. This will allow them to get a better harvest, it will become more concrete and bureaucracy will be reduced. All members of the Riigikogu know what a wind oar is, and I think they will also essentially know what it really means to yield. If it wasn't set off, it would have to reduce its yield several times. But to put a stop to it, everyone has to fight together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U115	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U116	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I would like to draw attention once again to the internship grant. How much does the Ministry of Rural Affairs have foreseen this year for this internship grant line? How do you assess the current activity in applying for it? In principle, this internship grant is very important both for rural management and for the Food and Veterinary Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U117	Thank you. As an experienced Member, I would not respond to you, Krista, because the draft does not contain this issue. But out of respect for you, I'm telling you, this sum hasn't been reduced. In fact, there is a demand for this support. Practical action and, let's say, real work is what brings people to this specialty and activity. That's a good thing to do. That it was set in due course, I certainly commend. This amount can only be increased, it should not be reduced. It is possible to get more specialists through practical work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U118	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U119	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! As a city boy, I had a very interesting idea about the wind oat. You could have brought this plant's remote control and shown it to us, and it would have been even more effective. But, Minister, it is a pleasure to see that bureaucracy is decreasing. During these few weeks of work, have you found out yet another way to cut red tape for farmers? Maybe you've had it on your mind before.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U120	Thank you, Andres! The topic on the agenda has been that if, for example, the owner of the animal submits data, he must submit them to about four registers according to the procedures in force. However, if it already enters data into the national register once, they could be transferred from the register so that it would not have to deal with it separately. Yes, this subject, bureaucracy, is on the agenda, and I think we can reduce the bureaucratic burden on the farmer a little. But what is really happening right now is that they have to log the data into each register separately, even though these registers can connect to each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U121	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U122	Good Tarmo, first of all, a lot of strength for you in your new job! I know this isn't an easy job, but I'm sure you're doing well the way you've been so far. You know, as weird as it is, unlike my colleague Andres Ammas, I have a computer and I looked at the picture. I don't know if I'd actually recognize a wind oat, but I've seen a picture about half an hour ago. But there is a legal aspect here. Now, it says here, what are the measures to prevent the spread of wind oat, that, that, the second and the third. You yourself said very rightly that fighting a wind oat is actually an economic issue, because if you have a lot of wind oat, what are you gonna do if you don't fix your field? That's why I have a question. The fact that we are now putting these measures into law doesn't remind us a little of the Soviet Spring Sow Commissioner who came by to say that you are now taking it out and putting it back? Why do we regulate such a thing? Tonight's wind oar, tomorrow's bullshit, the day after tomorrow's third thing. Maybe the farmer should know something.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U123	Thank you, Igor! As an expert on foreign policy, you are also a very good expert on agriculture. I haven't been far past agriculture, I know what a wind oar is. It's a very dangerous plant. Its main difference from normal culture is that it matures faster than others and reproduces very well. Even though he's been hiding on the ground for about ten years, he still had to reproduce. So this is a common fight, Igor, whether we are from the Centre Party or the Reform Party, there are no political differences here. I think the better this is set, the more effective this fight will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U124	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U125	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I've even picked a wind oat when I was a kid, so I've seen it. Having been a member of several juries, such as the jury of the year's selection of a farmer or the farm competition, and I have noticed that the biggest issue is the one who causes the wind oar to spread. Especially the big bad guys are the organic producers that's gonna spread all the bad stuff anyway. How does this law prevent any form of exclusion because of interpersonal disputes over who is guilty? Does this provide a guarantee that pseudo-questions will not be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U126	Thank you. The oat of the wind is being harvested out of the growing grain. The children will be sent to the field and picked out. It's really one way to beat it. I've seen it, I haven't picked it myself. I'll bring a parallel with a dandelion. If you have a very good lawn patch, but the neighbor doesn't mow the lawn in time, and the dandelion on his lawn reproduces, it'll still be on your land. I don't know what sanction can be used against a neighbor if he sends you dandelion seeds all the time. It's a common fight. In fact, those who grow crops will understand that it must be fought together, as a common front. Is there any way to punish pollution? How can this be identified? I don't know that. I don't know if there's any way to put the law into place so I can go to court if a neighbor has contaminated and infected your grain field. If that's possible, please let me know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U127	Thank you, Honorable Minister. No further questions for you. I invite Arno Silla, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, to give a presentation to the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U128	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Minister gave a very thorough overview of this draft. I don't have much to add. The same problems were also discussed in the Commission. In the Commission, our questions were answered by the employees of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and there were the same problems up there. What can I add to this debate on the Commission? The Commission was also asked about the volume of these programmes. I say that this law is not a cluster law, but I say a few more sentences because these tasks came from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Rural Affairs under an interministerial order, and that is why this bill is mainly necessary so that the Ministry of Rural Affairs can act in accordance with the law and deal with these matters. The question was also about these amounts. According to this law, they relate to the state budget and the state budget can change every year, which is why the Minister makes the decrees on these matters again every year. Therefore, it is not possible to introduce specific figures in the law as to how much is allocated to the Peipsivere or Setomaa programme or some other or third one. But in short, the Minister has already pointed out that, for example, the amount of the Setomaa programme should remain the same as last year. As far as I know, it was EUR 250,000. The amounts of the other programmes will not change either. The question has already been raised here that, in Setomaa and in particular in the Meremägi municipality, there was such a thing on the agenda that it was not obvious where this money was directed. The representatives of the Ministry replied that the Ministry should not be responsible for this. But personally, I don't think that's quite right. If the minister makes an order, then he must know where these sums are actually used, not so that, for example, the Setomaa Municipalities Association decides and others do not even know how the money was used. The way taxpayers' money is used must always be clear from the beginning to the end. It wasn't much more than that. Our committee considered that it should be proposed to put a draft of 340 on the plenary agenda by 11 January 2017. By the way, the comment is that there were four former agriculture and rural ministers in this debate. Today's minister is the fifth to deal with this issue. So this is a very important issue, and very important men were involved. Secondly, we decided to appoint Arno Silla, member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, as the 340 rapporteur. Thirdly, we decided to propose the completion of the first reading of draft 340. These decisions were all consensual. Fourthly, we decided to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments be set by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act at 5.15 p.m. on 25 January 2017. This was also a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U129	Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U130	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! A moment ago, the Minister for Rural Affairs replied that he could not foresee sanctions in the event of obstacles or other such issues arising from the spread of wind oat. So why did the Committee on Rural Affairs decide to sign this issue of wind oat in the law? I understood that the possibility of sanctions is not yet clear and their method is not yet invented.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U131	There was a bit of a discussion in the Commission as well. To date, no one has been punished for violating the rules governing the spread of wind oat. But I say, in addition to the Minister's view, that this is not only a reduction in bureaucracy on the side of farmers, but also a reduction in bureaucracy on the side of officials. Officials can now go around more instead of making all kinds of reports and filling out tables. If someone has read the explanatory statement carefully, he knows that it is said that they can walk around and give more advice and control the spread of the wind oat on the ground. This is certainly more profitable than filling out meaningless papers and reports.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U132	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U133	Thank you! Dear waitress, There is no doubt that deciding the rate of support is a separate issue each year. But I still want to ask you for the sake of memory refresh and for the sake of understanding the nature of this thing. What amounts have been mentioned in previous years in the case of wind oat aid? What have these rates been before? You certainly discussed this in the Commission. What amounts have been mentioned in previous years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U134	Thank you for your question. No specific amounts were mentioned in the Commission, but as the Minister has said today, these amounts will remain at around the level that they were so far in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U135	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U136	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, In any case, I wish the new minister every success. One part of what the country must do and what the previous government also developed is related to improving the business environment, one part of which is certainly related to bureaucracy. The issue of bureaucracy has also been seriously discussed in the discussions on the common agricultural policy in the European Councils and working groups. This trend certainly needs to be supported by Parliament and, if it can be done with draft legislation, it is extremely important. The second thing I want to put to heart is regional programmes. Indeed, some representative organisations fear that rural areas may also be too narrowly addressed in the new coalition. It is extremely important to allocate a certain proportion of the large sums of money that support a farmer and a very good farmer to a wider rural area. I therefore very much hope that the new government will take forward the idea of cutting red tape in the so-called'small business'. This package is prepared in the Ministry and is in the process. It offers the possibility for those who engage in different forms of enterprise to simply start up, gain consumer confidence and create added value. These programmes certainly support a great deal of cultural entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship based on it, whether it be a Setomaa or a Peipsivere programme or whatever. Therefore, the Reform Party will certainly support this draft and propose it to others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U137	Only the Reform Party used the opportunity to participate in the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 340. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 340 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U138	Today's third item is the first reading of Bill 328 on the amendment of the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (strengthening the attitude towards drink driving). Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, would like to make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U139	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this draft is one and clear: so that we can all be safer to travel. Traffic behaviour is one of the differences in many other areas of crime. The fact that potential victims or people at risk are completely vulnerable. You can do something about potential apartment theft: you can put a snapper lock on the door, you can set on alarms, or you can leave the lights on when you go away from home to the theatre, and you can sit at home all night and night. However, there is no way to mitigate all the risks associated with the potential risk of a drunk driver. This potential killer is a threat to all of us. We have 1,000-4000 drunks in traffic every day. It can always be said that the number of blowers must be increased. We are generally champions in this area in Europe, with drivers blowing more than 800,000 times in 2015. The Ministry of Justice has analysed criminal policy from the perspective of drunk drivers and their behaviour. The problem is that the current toolbox, as a number of border events have unfortunately shown, is not effective. I am thinking of how criminal policy motivates people to refrain from this root cause, i.e. activities that trigger sociopathic behaviour, i.e. to get rid of addiction, be it drug or alcohol addiction. Secondly, if we look at the potentially most dangerous group, these are the criminal drunk drivers who reclusively continue their activities, we can see that, unfortunately, they have not been the result of past criminal practice, which uses probationary sanctions, community service and fines, at least has not led to a reduction in such practices. More effective instruments are needed here. This bill contains a number of measures. Firstly, first-time offenders will be given the possibility of being released on parole from the exercise of their right to drive as a fundamental or ancillary punishment for misdemeanours. This is not a tightening of the sentence, but, on the contrary, a penalty is not carried out as regards the withdrawal of the right to drive, if the person accepts an additional obligation, i.e. accepting treatment of alcoholism, participation in the social programme and a ban on alcohol and drug use. Second, a possible trial period for which a person is subjected to behavioural control will be extended. It is now a funny paradox that a longer probation period can be understood without behavioural control. When behavioural checks are determined, the situation is actually more serious with regard to the person. It's like a little bit backwards, and we're going to put the standards in proportion here. Thirdly, if a person has been sentenced to probation for a criminal offence, the probationary and the court shall be given the opportunity to respond accordingly, whether to warn, impose new obligations, extend probation or enforce the sentence. Under the current law, this is done only if the person fails to fulfil the obligations imposed on him or her during the probationary period or does not comply with the control requirements. This is an absurd situation. The person is under probation and is driving drunk, and he has been sentenced, for example, to the same thing, but now there is a situation where the probation worker only has to react in certain cases. If a person is left free by grace and has not been imprisoned and if he again commits this act and drives drunk, then the logic of the bill is that the probation worker must react. These are the following changes: If a person has repeatedly been intoxicated, a pre-trial report must be ordered during the criminal investigation. This is not an ideological presentation of the person's view of the world or his political convictions, the aim of which is to identify his addiction problems. In addition, one value standard will be established and established by amending the Traffic Act. It is determined that avoiding driving in a drunk driver's car could be one of the objectives of prevention programmes or communication. It is true that driving in a drunk driver's car, especially among young people, is massive. Studies presented in the Traffic Committee of the Government of the Republic show that a quarter of young people have drunk driving experience. What's the problem? It is not seen as a deplorable phenomenon, it is thought to be a driver's business, it is not a matter of the life and health of the person driving in that car. The Penal Code now introduces a new paragraph which provides for criminal liability for the use of alcohol, narcotics or psychotropic substances or for escape from the scene following a violation by the driver of traffic requirements and vehicle operational requirements. Figuratively speaking, there was an accident and you've caused it yourself, you're drinking alcohol or drugs after the accident, or you're running away. Criminal liability is now being imposed for this, and misdemeanor liability is currently being provided for. However, criminal liability applies only if there is a serious consequence, i.e. in an accident someone has suffered serious damage to their health or has died. We considered it reasonable to impose this restriction. In addition, it is foreseen that the maximum penalty for drunk drivers will be increased if a traffic accident is caused by serious consequences (severe damage to health or death). It is currently possible to set up up to 5 years, with a draft of 3 to 12 years. This will fall into a comparable category of killing or serious bodily injury, in terms of consequence, not in terms of penalties. It also provides for the introduction of a minimum threshold of three months as an additional penalty for the withdrawal of the right to drive. At the moment, it is absurd that, as an additional penalty for misdemeanours, the minimum threshold for disqualification from driving is higher than for crimes: if you are full, this level is lower than for misdemeanours. Somehow this thing has turned its head on in practice, we're putting this thing in proportion. In addition, in the case of driving intoxicated, some of the sentences must be enforced repeatedly, but the length of the imprisonment remains a matter for the court to decide, which may last for a few days, but may also last for a few weeks or months. This is the so-called shock-imagination method for this most risky group, the most dangerous group, the relapsed group. Finn studies have shown that on average, a drunk driver gets caught at 200. Some get skipped the first time, some have to square 200 more, but on average 200. Now we're talking about this group that's going to be averaged over a couple of years, 400 times the median. It's a professional driver! In the case of this group, the penalty logic currently in force is applied on the first time, which we have in law, but in the second or third time, the state should, in my opinion, give a criminal policy signal that it is starting to react more rigidly. The conditional penalties, which in reality are also conditional penalties for committing a new offence during the period of punishment, or the financial penalties, we see, have not had enough effect, unfortunately. It's nothing unique. It is called mandatory sentencing, as a criminological term it is used in quite a number of countries. The right thing is that it is used internationally either in the case of relapsed, serious crimes against individuals or in the case of general road traffic offences, particularly in the case of drunken driving. It has its general preventive character and is quite effective for these persons. Our goal is not that prisons be filled with relapsing drunks, but that is to ensure that the proportion of people with general dangerous behaviour in society is reduced. I hope that we will achieve this with this method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U140	Minister, there are questions for you. Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U141	Thank you! Good minister! I have a question about the jolly story of ringing in the press. I support the idea that such acts must be condemned. Doesn't all these intermediates in adult education just mean writing lines in lawmaking? Why do we offer a person a chance not to be bad for a year so that he can continue to be bad again? It could just be that from a certain point on, you don't have the right to drive, from a certain point on, you really have the door behind your back.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U142	Thank you. We offer this alternative to first-time drivers. The point is just pushing. For all these therapy programs, in Russian times, there was a forced treatment for alcoholism, and in today's addiction therapy, this general logic, as I understand it, is that a person himself voluntarily says that he wants to get rid of the addiction. That's the assumption. According to the papers, forcefully, so he naps somewhere in the corner, doesn't get the result. The point is, he has a choice, figuratively speaking, whether the permits are taken away or whether he's willing to go through the therapy program. The starting point is that a person finally realizes that he's in some kind of trouble and he's misbehaved. In addition, it is important to control medical dependence. I myself believe that, especially in the case of traffic offences, I will shortly introduce to the government the reform of misdemeanours, which also deals with, for example, speeding up the promised speed, conditional punishment is actually very effective. If you have rushed on the road to St Petersburg and get caught and if you do not have any prior penalties, a certain period of time will be granted and if you are in compliance with the law during that period, the fine will not be enforced. I believe that this is one of the most effective methods in society in terms of public safety. It is not a question of the fifty, one hundred or two hundred euros that would be collected in the form of tax revenue. That is not the goal. The goal is for a person to try a little bit of a rope to have some kind of motivation to do it. I think that in a smart penal policy, we should look for more diverse instruments. I'm also talking about unauthorized drivers. As of 2015, the review of the Penal Code entered into force. The previous parliamentary formation made unauthorized management a crime, before it was a misdemeanor, but now it was a crime. Funny thing is, there are 800 crimes in Estonia every year. Those who were previously fined for wrongdoing are now criminals. It's a question in itself, by the way. This was done in Parliament. Apparently, it was also an emotional moment when this repeated unauthorized ride was criminalized. And now we see that there's another company that doesn't work. As these drunks themselves have said, no licenses, drunk driver drives. There's more or less a similar punishment here, isn't there, again a parole or a fine? If you get caught driving drunk, the permits will be taken away and a parole sentence will be imposed. If you get caught for the second time, there's gonna be another parole. There will also be a conditional sentence for unauthorized management. In short, we can see that, in the case of relapsed behaviour, if a profile is already drawn out, that he has no problem with the laws that are being passed here, and he has no problem with the whole penal policy, we need to look for some more forceful methods, of course not draconical, not to physically injure people or anything like that. We are a humane society, we find proportionate punishments. One way is, in fact, what the law itself offers is the deprivation of liberty. After all, the legislator has passed a law that says that the general punishment is imprisonment. In fact, the rule of criminal policy is that it is implemented conditionally, which, I think, has been justified as a general rule. The detention of people in a prison facility cannot be an end in today's society in itself, but in the case of a particular group, the idea of shock must be called for. We are not talking about having a gray beard down to his knees because he has spent his whole life in prison, but we are talking about a short-term shock-freeness in the case of a relapsed character who has already been caught for the second or third time in a few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U143	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U144	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The subject is very topical and important. However, quite a number of stakeholders are concerned that the proposed measures violate established legal principles, seek to undermine the autonomy of the judiciary and the separation of powers. Is it justified to minimise discretion in this measure? The court will now be deprived of the opportunity to decide whether or not the sentence will be enforced. Have you analysed whether these measures run counter to §§ 20 and 146 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U145	Thank you. It is true that today's page of this article wrote that the Supreme Court and the barrister's office have brought this problem to the fore and discussed whether it is reasonable. They have not indicated that this could be contrary to the Constitution. The Supreme Court itself stated in its judgment of 23 September 2015 that imposing penal sanctions is the exclusive competence of the legislator and the legislator has a wide margin of discretion in determining the penalty corresponding to the offence. The establishment of these rates is a prerogative of the legislator; they must be based on values adopted in society, the expression of which is the competent legislative power. It is precisely in this Chamber that we are saying what social attitudes are and what action is condemned by what degree of sanction and what action is not. 'It is also possible for the parliament to shape it in this way,' emphasised the Supreme Court's decision 'of the state's penal policy and influence criminal behaviour. ' The Supreme Court pointed out: 'The principle of separation of ties (this was also indicated by a good questioner. It is clear from U.R. that the courts cannot, instead of the legislator, take the initiative to shape the system of sanctions on the basis of abstract punitive policy objectives. " So, indeed, what the Supreme Court has pointed out is a criminal change. It's a change, it can't be denied. But as the Supreme Court says, it is free to decide for yourself. At the moment, deprivation of liberty is in practice provided for, but the general rule is that the punishment of a relapsing drunk driver is not contained in a real sentence, but is decided by the courts in practice. They are free to do so, no one is allowed to dictate to the courts how to behave in a particular case. They are free to decide, and they may decide to impose a probation. They do so within the framework of the current law, as foreseen by the legislator. According to my understanding, if a reciprocating drunk driver has been sentenced to imprisonment, then there could be no probation, but at least part of the sentence could be the actual deprivation of liberty provided for. I am not talking here about years or decades of imprisonment or life imprisonment. I'm talking about days, weeks, months, the court would be free to decide here. It is a bit paradoxical that a note came from the Tartu County Court. The fact that comments are made is entirely natural, here are law enforcement, experts with their own views. In fact, we saw fit to take away the possibility of parole in the case of a relapsing drunk driver. I would like to point out that in this draft, we foresee the possibility that the first drinker can be suspended if he becomes a part of a therapy program. The opinion came from the Tartu County Court that it is wrong to give the court the right to impose conditional penalties for misdemeanours, as this significantly increases the number of enforcement cases in court, and the conditional penalty certainly does not fulfil the purpose of misdemeanour proceedings, i.e. it does not prevent the commission of new misdemeanours if it has not been able to do so with real penalties. You see the paradox, don't you? If we say that the most dangerous statues, the criminal drunks who have already been caught for the second or third time, could be behind bars for a few days, it is as if we were narrowing the court's judgment room. But if we get the safest group in this catalogue that's first caught with a little drunk, we're gonna apply a parole, if they're willing to go to treatment, some judges say they can't apply parole because it's not effective enough. There you go, there you go. I am not saying that one position or another is wrong. I say that criminal policy must, of course, be evidence-based. This draft has been made by experts and an explanatory memorandum has been made by experts, based on international logic. But 'criminal policy' has two parts: 'criminal' and 'politics'. There must also be an understanding of cognitive and social attitudes, as emphasised by the Supreme Court. Punishment policy is never mechanical science or engineering; there is also a reflection of social choice and there is a monopoly here in the legislator.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U146	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U147	Thank you. Good minister, you talk for a long time! I'm asking you how you feel about proportionality. When the review of penal law was carried out, the general direction was still to make the penalties a little smaller and to give the courts greater discretion. Now you've been talking about discretion or discretion here for a long time, but I'm still a little confused about why a person must necessarily be locked up when it's possible to give the court the freedom to decide. Especially when it's the only caterer in the family, but we're just saying we're gonna shut him down right now. But I'm interested in that proportionality from the perspective of the penitentiary catalogue. If we look at penal law, including criminal sanctions, we see that for certain things we allow parole to be imposed, but not here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U148	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I am based on the logic that this is a specific and very dangerous type of offence, which is, to be recognised, massive, puts society as a whole at risk and for which the current methods of punishing a highly relicant group have not been sufficiently effective. That's an honest answer. I fully agree that the general rule is that the courts are able to choose penalties in a very broad context, and in reality this choice has come true in criminal statistics and practice. I think a change is needed here, and it should not happen so that the judges themselves come together and say that they are now going to change it. No, that's not allowed, the monopoly is the legislator. He has to say whether or not he needs to react more forcefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U149	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You have certainly made calculations of the financial impact of these changes, i.e. how many people they affect and what it will cost the country. The second part of the question relates to what the previous speaker said. What happens when it is literally a traffic hooligan who is the feeder of his family? How will the problems within this framework be resolved so that the family is not deprived of these new measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U151	Thank you. However, I must say that when we talk about criminal policy, the logic that sanctions must still be balanced with what has been done is certainly the primary punitive,'special preventive' objective. We can take any example, even a very serious crime. I draw attention to this sentimental example that a criminal is a family feeder or actually a decent man, but it just, you see, happened. The Supreme Court has itself implemented in the practice of its decisions that the first-degree crime cannot be subject to probation. When we talk about killing or this type of crime, at least in part there must be imprisonment. So that argument doesn't apply. We are talking here about a very clear criminal policy signal. With regard to the cost of the purchase of goods, the questioner probably had in mind the cost of possible additional detention, the Ministry of Justice does not apply for additional funds for the realisation of this draft from the state budget. We expect that the number of these persons should definitely decrease, otherwise there would be no point in making this change. If, as a result, more drinkers came to Estonia, this law should not be passed under any circumstances. We expect the number of these cases to decrease. But the main cost of prisons is the fixed costs, i.e. the salaries of the guards, the maintenance costs of the buildings. The main additional costs are the cost of catering additional persons (EUR 1,3 per day) and certainly the cost of clothing. There is a certain amount of clothing available, but there is also a certain cost of clothing. They can be covered by the existing budget of the prison service. Certainly, the costs will also depend on how the courts will apply this shockingness, whether they will determine a few days or a few weeks in prison. However, if we divide these several hundred people into 50 or 25 weeks, this certainly will not change this budget by the order of magnitude, given the number of prisoners in prisons that have been detained so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U152	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U153	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Ideally, people make good choices, do not endanger other people or their families, leave their families without feeding, etc. To what extent do these legislative changes increase this sense of responsibility? Have you made any predictions, if in five years' time it is likely that this law will be amended again, that the number of drunk drivers has decreased? The second question is, if it is a shock spell, is it conceivable that a person himself will pay the cost of being in prison. Then there is no need to ask for an impact on the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U154	Thank you. General procedural costs are paid by the sentenced person (it is not only about steering drunks), at least in theory, because in very many cases people who have committed crimes do not have property. Are prisons supposed to be self-rewarding? This is an important philosophical subject. In Estonia, people are not charged for being in prison, which means that they live like a free hotel. The imposition of this charge is not entirely unthinkable. I've read in the paper that it's being discussed as an experiment in Holland. But I think the median income of the Dutch inmate and Estonian inmates varies considerably. But I certainly wouldn't push that idea off the table, so I could discuss it. But I do not think it would make sense to introduce such differences here, figuratively speaking, that one type of inmates are subject to a prison fee and that others are not. The socio-economic situation of inmates, their income or their livelihood, is rather such that they are not able to pay the money for victims, even if it has been a victim's crime, which the state has understood, they would not yet be able to pay for the fact that the prison has, figuratively speaking, provided them with accommodation services. But now the question is how many people we think are going to be more positive. My concern is also borne out when we look at the proportion of addictions in society or alcohol consumption (this is also the subject of alcohol restrictions and alcohol duty), it turns out that people in general drink less, but we do not really see a decrease in drinking among young people. No doubt, drinking alcohol per capita is also linked to how many people develop addictions. It's a perfectly clear, mechanical correlation. Consequently, this draft does not yet raise the question that, since the situation is returning to normal "linearly falling anyway," whether society needs to intervene at all. Among the younger generation, this addiction activity needs to be prevented. In other words, it is important to prevent these figures from increasing. It is not about people getting better anyway and the number of crimes in society is shrinking, shrinking and shrinking. If we look at the potential for developing addictions, we can see that there is also a risk of developing a negative trend here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U155	Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U156	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to sincerely thank the Government and the Minister for their efforts in the fight against alcoholism, one of which is certainly the fight against drinkers. There are at least two types of people among the missed leaders: those who are alcoholics, and others who are indifferent to the law. Is this therapy program unpleasant enough? I think it should be an unpleasant experience to increase compliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U157	Thank you. In 2016, a very positive big step was taken: with European Structural Funds money, the 'Sober and healthier Estonia' programme has been launched. As a result, additional alcohol treatment opportunities have been created, including for persons without health insurance in South-Estonian Hospital, North-Estonian Regional Hospital, Pärnu Hospital, University of Tartu Hospital and Viljandi Hospital. Treatment includes treatment as well as psychosocial care, including psychological services. I don't know what to say about the liking of these programs. As I have read, in certain psychological therapy programs, it is certainly important, either by improving a person or by finding an internal balance within himself, that he considers his past behaviour, which he has not considered to be deplorable or self-deplorable, to be "clashing off." He's going to have an internal shock, so there's gotta be some shock in these things. These programmes must certainly have an important role to play in explaining the potential consequences of these actions. I think the postman wrote in his editorial today that there is such a program in Thailand that those who are caught drunk are taken to the morgue and shown to them people who have died. Well, I guess there's a lot of things that have been tested in different countries. It is not a punishment when people are taken to the morgue, but, above all, it is the most drastic examples of therapy programs that show that some conduct you have been involved in may have caused such consequences as are, in general, very sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U158	Please, Külliiki Hatter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U159	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Do you not feel that this package of measures still means dealing with the consequences? You have repeatedly mentioned that this is the biggest problem among young people. Did you not discuss in the government, when you sent this bill to the hall, that you should develop an interministerial prevention programme and think a little bit about the educational side to avoid the emergence of new generations who think that drunk driving can be tolerated? Is it possible that, between the first reading and the second reading, you will come up with a preventive package within the framework of this bill, which would give a complete vision? Then there would be no reason to say that we are now moving towards a penal state, not a benevolent, educationally guiding and tolerating state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U160	The question is, what does this 'penalty state' mean? There's a penalty squad coming up, and somewhere, houses are being burned. The question is not that, the question is that it is more like a mother. I mean, all the kids are cute for Mom, right? But part of parenting, part of getting on the right track is punishing. All parents have experienced this by using human images. What's the point here? The country is our treaty, and the task of this treaty is to guarantee us our freedoms. For me, freedom is not guaranteed if there is a potential risk that I will be driven to death on the Tallinn-Tartu highway. I pay taxes as an Estonian citizen and I have the right to assume that the state is taking steps to prevent this threat. It is very right that these things cannot be looked at separately: prevention policy, education policy and the policy of liberation from addiction. The Committee on Traffic is one such central body where all these aspects are dealt with in cooperation with the relevant authorities: the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of the Interior and also the Ministry of Justice. That's where we've been discussing these things. I cannot say that it is only this step that will be taken and no other steps will be taken. I was just pointing out a program by the Ministry of Social Affairs about getting rid of addiction. I agree that there could be, I propose, between two readings, a certain integrated hearing or public hearing during the transport of the Committee on Legal Affairs, where representatives of several ministries or several ministers would introduce what is being done in their area of administration on this matter. It has not been separate from this activity. But what's the question? I come back to the fact that during the checks conducted by the Ministry of the Interior in 2015, the drivers were checked over 800,000 times and the drunks were captured. But what good is it if the most dangerous gangs are figuratively pointing at the middle finger? They're not affected by the blowing. Well, I blew it, give me a reflector, or I'll make a parole. I don't care! Consequently, the question is also that the whole chain must be linked. If any link in the chain appears to be very weak, it must be strengthened. I am not saying right now that one will replace the other, that instead of punishing it, it should be prevented. You can't say that. These things are both important; they are parts of one whole. I read Mart Kadastik's book on Monday. There was some sort of journalistic controversy about the gauntlet. When talking about Internet media, he asked, for example, whether electronic media was an important platform or content. He said that these things can't be separated, like when you're on a phone, you can't separate a phone call and a phone machine. There's no telling which one's more important. There's no one else without one.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U161	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U162	Mr. Minister! There's quite a few figures in the explanatory memorandum to the bill. Would it be possible to obtain a numerical assessment of the hypothetical benefits of becoming a draft law? If we assume that something needs to be improved, then it could also be called a certain drawback of the laws in force. If this deficiency is addressed, something should become significantly better, the number of road accidents or deaths or injuries should decrease. What is this positive thing that will improve in Estonia if this bill becomes a law? If our constituents ask us that, we can answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U163	Look, Estonia is a small country, but large numbers can still be dealt with in crime statistics. We can talk about the fact that a fifth of those killed in traffic have been killed because of alcohol or other addictive substances. We can make a statement that this will change in a year or two. We have seen that in reality, the number of accidents depends very much on the weather, for example. What the weather is like around Midsummer Day will determine the possible number of fatal accidents at that time. If we look at these measures and try to statistically point out how much, in absolute terms, we can reduce accidents or the number of drunk drivers, then it must be said that all our logic is based on the fact that these measures help to prevent drunken driving. I'm describing this logical scheme. The current activities and measures to date have not led to a reduction in drunken management in the most risky groups, even though in other risky behaviours in Estonian society we have seen that there is a positive trend, I mean the death of fire and such things, the number of which, right, is decreasing. But there's no reduction in these groups. We see that these individuals are a relatively small circle. We want to hope that we will be able to reduce this further. How much can it be expressed in numbers? This has been done in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, and we also have a few studies that I am happy to make available to the questioner. One is precisely about statistics on drunken management over the previous year, which is the origin of this draft, and the other is about penal policy in these areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U164	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U165	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! We're messing with the drunks here. Once there was such an idea on the table that if there is a drunk driver, there is only one penalty: if he has not committed a crime, the car will simply be confiscated and that is all the jam, everything, no more talk. There are now more than half of the car leasing cars. Good, they're gonna take the car away, and the whole family's gonna spend another 20 years paying for this car. Then I'm sure the drinking will go away. Why aren't these things an option? Why are we talking about some kind of paragraphs, subjective conditions, and the only feeder in the family? The only provider of the family can race the way he wants the bread to be brought to the table, and if you can't, it'll be brought from another person's apartment, all right, and that's it. Why are there no specific black and white rules for crimes such as driving drunk, etc.? There are no alternatives, he's a potential killer, he is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U166	Thank you. Life has gotten better, life has gotten more fun and cars have gotten cheaper. Well, what did a man have in Russian times? During his life, he earned himself an apartment and a car. They were of the same magnitude in terms of costs, housing and the car were equal in that sense. Now, unfortunately, you are opening Auto24 online and you can also buy a 500-euro car that can speed up and do it either soberly or drunk. The truth is that the seizure of cars, to which the questioner referred, is being used. It certainly needs to be promoted more. Since the car is a tool for driving drunk, the cars are confiscated. Here, too, there was a draft concerning confiscation. The police are in trouble that these cars are gathering in piles at police stations. Now we have agreed on this procedure for realization, we have tried to correct it in a draft. But this is the right thing. I think what was done back in the day will certainly affect it, but today we have to admit that cars have just gone cheap. Housing is another tobacco, but confiscating it would probably not be politically fair again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U167	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Some experts and people have thought that, with such legislative changes, we will achieve that the Estonian state will become a country of statistically criminals, but it will not do much good because preventive work and other communication will remain weak. Others feel that good children grow up without a sprain. But when you discussed this bill in the government, how did Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U169	So he wasn't the Secretary of Defense. The authorship of this draft cannot be written into its own name by the current coalition, as it is a draft of the previous government. I remember that Mr Ossinovski, especially as regards the catalogue of damage to health, was polling about this. But Prime Minister Rõivas was behind it, and so this bill came to Parliament. The fact that we have too many people in the criminal record is a fact. I don't think it's okay, especially when it comes to wrongdoing, for example when a person is riding a rabbit on a bus and going to the criminal record in front of it. I think there's a whole catalogue of things that shouldn't be misdemeanours at all, even though acts that cause less danger shouldn't be recorded in the criminal record. Pay your little ticket or taxes and that's it. I'd like to see a couple of tens of thousands of people in the criminal record taken out of it. The second group, for which punishment in law should be avoided, we have sent a draft to the coordination of such a draft, are minors. Regrettably, the prison is the last place, but it must be acknowledged where a young person who has fallen into the wrong path could grow to be a better person. We are offering this route, the way courts view it, is a separate question: in the case of a criminal offence committed by a minor, imprisonment or detention is the last option. There must be a whole catalogue of leverages. There is nothing to say, especially if a young person has already committed an anti-person crime and has been in prison, says the whole Western European experience, then there is a very high probability that he will also be in prison in 50 to 60 years' time. Consequently, if we are to strategically reduce crime in Estonia in terms of humanity or in terms of two, one hundred young people who are currently in prison must be dealt with. Sadly, we know that a young person is quick to adopt a bad example, but happiness is that he also accepts a good example. A 50-year-old man in prison is no longer being retrained to become an honest and good person. No, it won't. It won't grow angel wings, but it's possible to influence a young person. That's the hope.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U170	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U171	Thank you. I haven't been to the debate on this bill. I don't know if I noticed it when I was in the government. But I recognize you in it. This is about tightening up the penalties, which has always been your reaction. But do you mind the criticism that was made today in Postimees that you are taking away from the court the opportunity to consider penalties? How do you feel as a minister in a situation where you are clearly restricting the discretion of the court, and it has also attracted public attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U172	Thank you. No, this bill is a diverse bill. The purpose of this bill is not to have more people to be punished. I would point out that people are being punished following this amendment and that they have also been punished before this amendment. What I'm trying to say is that parole is also a punishment. If a person is sentenced on parole for a year or six months or three months, this means that a prison sentence is simply not enforced. My logic is that if a person is relapsed, if he has already slipped the second or third time, then the word 'giving' raises questions. What does the word 'ingimis' mean? This means that there is some condition under which the sanction is enforced in the event of an infringement. If a person has been drunk for the second or third time in a time of punishment, it is figuratively a shock spell. It is true that the Supreme Court proved that it is taking place in one very narrow contour, but that means changing the criminal policy stance, changing the current canon. You can totally agree with that. The decision whether or not to make this change is in the hands of the legislator. The Supreme Court has said that as a representative of the people of the legislator, it is the monarch who determines the criminal policy framework of the state on the basis of which the law is applied by the court. It is not a matter of constitutional impossibility for the legislator to do so. I would like to point out in this draft that there is a possibility of parole for misdemeanours. This is a change exactly in the other direction. Some critics may say that you see, caress the drinkers, wear them on your hands, place them in a gold bath, wash them with milk. Why are you doing this, Jürgen Ligi asks why you caress the drinkers, he asks in this hall. Embarrassing, isn't it? On the contrary, opportunities need to be more diverse. Our aim is not the harshness of punishment in itself, but the rightful conduct. If we reach out to a person to be addicted to treatment and avoid such wrongdoing in the future, then everyone will be happy. The family of this person is happy when the family father, who used to be a good worker, no longer drinks, the other road users are happy, and the man himself is happier, no one is bad. [[Interjection.]] No, I think it has to be taken seriously, it has to be taken seriously. It doesn't bother me, but it got my attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U173	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Now, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Hanno Pevkur, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to present a report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is that this bill was already dealt with by the previous government, and Urmas and I quite strongly argued about the content and the meaning of this bill. We also got something much better. For example, the Ministry of Justice initially had a plan to apply at least five days' imprisonment to minors, but fortunately we got this madness out of the bill. A lot of things got better there. But there's still a lot of stuff left in the committee. I believe that, between the first and second readings, there is still quite a lot of work to be done in the Commission on this draft. For example, there was a question in the Commission: Urve Tiidus wanted to know whether the effects had been analysed. The subject was also on the table here today. The Minister said that the leverage must be intense and he believes in the preventive effect of the shame of the shocking. Jaanus Karilaid wanted to know how many drunken drivers were caught in Estonia, and Reinsalu replied that there were several hundred of them. There were other questions, such as whether prisons were ready for this change and what the future of coercive alcoholism would be. The minister answered all the questions the way he thought was right. We also made procedural decisions and they were such. We decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today. That's what we did. The Commission proposed ending the first reading so that we could discuss this draft again between the first and second readings and invite partners, including courts, to discuss it. The Commission also proposed to appoint a rapporteur for the Commission. The last proposal concerned the deadline for the submission of amendments, which is 25 January at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U175	There are questions for the rapporteur, at least one. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Reform Party, Honourable Rapporteur! We learned from this presentation, among other things, that the Reform Party probably has a slightly different view in the world than it contained at the beginning of the draft coming from your government. However, in order to remain within the scope of the Commission's work and, for a moment, to address this article of Postimees referred to above, I wonder whether the Commission intends to examine this draft with the view that it is genuinely constitutional. The Postman spelled out in a dramatic way that the minister would invade the jurisdiction of the court. It is also clear from the executive edition of the Constitution that the Court has a monopoly on justice and that the Court is independent. Should the constitutionality of such a restriction or withdrawal of discretion be checked, or are there any other issues for which it should be checked?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U177	Thank you. I very much hope that the chairman of the committee, as I do, will also call on the Commission's representative from the Court of Justice Advisory Board. It would be good if it were one of the Supreme Court or circuit courts. They will decide who they send, but we should, in any case, find out what the courts stand for. Although, of course, the Court cannot state its final position on one draft, this is the role of the legislator. As far as constitutional review and possible constitutional contradictions are concerned, there are two possible aspects here. One is the question of discretion and the scope of jurisdiction of the court, that is, the discretion of the court, the other is proportionality. It is essential to assess the proportionality of the penalties set out in this draft in the system of penalties. If a person is immediately apprehended and the possibility of parole is denied, then we need to see how it fits into the general criminal law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U178	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U179	Mr. Pevkur! Of course, for historical reasons, it is understandable that this kind of laws and programs focus on alcohol, which is our traditional mental poison and substance of pleasure. But, based in particular on the fact that you have been Minister for the Interior, I ask you whether it is not really the case that the exclusion of new drugs and the prevention of the consequences of the consumption of these substances, and this whole area at all, is far behind in comparison with the fight against traditional alcohol consumption. Drug use is increasing and its consequences may be more dangerous than all the consequences of alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U180	Thank you for your question. That was a bit out of the Commission's debate. But I'll give you a brief answer. Of course, when we talk about driving a vehicle in a state of drink, drinking can be both alcoholic and alcoholic. In any case, it should be taken into account that the substance by which the drink has been obtained is irrelevant for the determination of the penalty. If a person is intoxicated in criminal matters, it is the court's jurisdiction to impose a sentence. But now we want to limit the discretion of the court a little bit and say that once the fact is established, the court cannot resort to discretion, but must send a person to prison. That's the main argument. It is not the court's concern whether or not to send a person to prison, but that they lose their right to decide whether or not to send a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U181	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, on behalf of the Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U182	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Anyway, it was a very instructive debate, what was going on here. For example, here was the question of whether Estonia is moving towards a penal state. You can talk about it, can't you? I've written out some data. In Poland, for example, there is a prison sentence of up to two years if there is more than 0.5. Okay, Poland may not be such an old democracy, but let's look at other countries. If Sweden has more than one drink, then it will be two years. In Germany, drunk driving repeatedly leads to prison sentences, and, as I understand it, its limits are not particularly indicated. France, where there is more than 0.8, has a fine of EUR 4500 and a maximum of two years in prison if it is supplemented by drugs, up to EUR 9 000 and up to three years. These are not penal states. They are simply countries where it is understood that the punishment must be adequate for the offence. The real state of punishment is Singapore. It is among those countries where alcohol is freely sold, although the country with the lowest number of drunk drivers, but everyone can admire the Internet how they are punished there. The Internet is crawling with these images. You got caught drunk on a pole and whipped against your naked ass. In fact, the result that arises there... It's enough to see it once so you don't take any more shots in your life. I adore those people in Singapore who take the courage to drive drunk because of the punishment that follows... Now that's a state of punishment! We are very far from the penal state with this bill. Another very interesting topic arose here: maybe this drunk driver is the only provider of the family. Okay. If I'm in a hairdresser and I want to shave, is Solingen's razor an instrument or a gun? It's an instrument when the hairdresser is sober. If he's drunk, it turns into an instant weapon, and I wouldn't risk sitting in that chair anymore. Is the scalpel an instrument or a weapon? If the surgeon is sober, it's probably an instrument. If he wants to operate drunk, it's a gun. Is a car weighing up to a ton of two a means of transport or a weapon? If the driver is sober and adequate, it's a means of transport. If he drives drunk, it becomes a weapon. Why do I have to think that a drunk driver has a family threatened by the loss of a caterer? He drives down a street with dozens, hundreds, thousands of people whose lives he threatens, including family feeders. But there are family members who aren't anyone's feeders. I understand they're not sorry, but the family caterer must be sorry. They're on the street, too. I think with this bill we are moving in the right direction. My colleague Jüri asked what would be better. I have the hope that the number of people who are intoxicated during control will decrease when people realise that there will be a much tougher punishment and that this punishment will be inevitable. On the other hand, I realize that if in today's world a person is still driving and drunk, it is not possible to rearrange him. No program will help this person to explain that he belongs in a taxi, not behind the wheel. But that's it. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports this bill, although, as we have already understood, it has been prepared by the previous coalition, and even Prime Minister Rõivas at the time was behind it. But we still support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U183	Please, on behalf of the Urmas Kruuse Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good Members of the Riigikogu! Certainly, neither the Reform Party Group nor I, as one of the members of the Group, wanted to refer my questions to it, as if one of the family feeders were more important than the other. No accident of this type is something that can be tolerated and approved. In my question, I specifically referred to the fact that if the court did not have the opportunity to consider and impose a penalty that could achieve the same objective, but that the family could also be fed, I think it would be more reasonable than an automated penalty that does not take into account any nuances. For this reason, I think that ideologically and philosophically certain types of automated punishment, especially when it comes to criminal punishment, are certainly not really what should be applied on a massive scale. Ways and methods should be sought to reduce the number of such cases in our society when people are driving drunk and are potentially and hypothetically and theoretically putting others at greater risk. This definitely has to be dealt with. Despite its noble purpose, we must not forget all other aspects. As the co-rapporteur said, the Commission will probably consider a number of other aspects between the first and second readings so that all the facts can be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U185	Jüri Adams will receive the floor on behalf of the Estonian Free Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U186	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I speak on behalf of the Free Party because I have had experience in this area: in 2001 I also participated in the processing of the Traffic Act into a law in the first version of the Penal Code. The main problem in this area is that, at least in the case of low levels of drinking, there is no clear link between such drivers being dangerous in traffic and causing many accidents. Of course, it is understandable to try to fight against things that are measurable. But the low level of alcohol or the lack of alcohol is not the direct aim of the law. The aim is to minimise road accidents. Somewhere there will be a limit where measures such as those contained in this draft will no longer produce results. I suspect that this border has been reached in Estonia at the moment. I looked at the bill in the explanatory memorandum. It suggests that 1,000-4000 drink drivers travel around Estonia every day. If cars are driving around 400,000 a day in Estonia, then the ratio between 1 and 0.25 would be 200,000 if they were driving around, the maximum number of drinkers would be 2%. I am not sure that the tightening of the penalties will still be possible to reduce this ratio. The problem is social judgment. It is quite difficult to demand that people do not drive at all when they drink alcohol, while society in general constantly promotes low alcohol consumption in all kinds of other situations. Now I'm talking about some things in the Penal Code. When the Penal Code was passed, a different penal policy was introduced in Estonia than it was before. In the Penal Code, the upper limits of penalties have usually been raised considerably higher than they have ever been in Estonia, but in order to balance, the judges have been given much more discretion than they have ever had in the past. In the case of criminal penalties, it is now practiced, rather than giving mercy in their own time, that depending on their behaviour, the sentence may be shortened during the period of the sentence. The idea of working in the opposite direction to this development is not right. It's different from experience. Even if our judges or other judges have punished them too leniently, which is a question of their own, this does not mean that they should be deprived of their discretion and turned into 'punishment machines'. The inevitability of punishment in the fight against alcohol in traffic cannot be achieved, as it is not possible to carry out total police controls. So the main problem with this draft is that it is probably important to put emphasis on other areas, be they youth education programmes or something else. There could be some progress to be expected. But small trivial changes in penal policy do not produce any noticeable results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U187	Thank you very much. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. As you have heard from the Commission rapporteur, the Commission has proposed to conclude the first reading of the draft 328. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 328 amendments at 16 January at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U188	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's last item is the first reading of Bill 346 of Amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act, Prison Act and Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Margus Tsahkna, Minister of Defence!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U189	Hello, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I wish everyone a good year! The draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act, the Prisoning Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure is before you. This amendment creates an additional possibility to execute disciplinary arrests imposed on members of the Defence Forces in the detention centres of the Police and Border Guard Board. When placed in detention, the provisions of the Prisons Act apply to a military officer with certain special features. The reason why this law is before you is that the Defence Forces do not have the necessary number of compliant detention facilities and the creation of a new infrastructure is not appropriate, as already existing police and border guards' detention facilities would then be duplicated. It is estimated that a little over EUR 1 million would need to be invested in order for all entities to have the necessary level of detention facilities. Apart from the absence of the necessary number of detention facilities, legal problems have arisen with regard to the organisation of surveillance. The Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that the Guardians of the Defence League do not have legal competence to supervise the members of the Defence Forces as they are civilians. Such an injunction has been made. Current practice shows that over the course of the year, an average of one hundred members of the armed forces are assigned to the arrest, the majority of whom are conscripts. The arrest is usually limited to seven days and the time spent in the conscript's detention is added to the length of his service. The main disciplinary offences for which disciplinary action is ordered are the use of violence in the military service, arbitrary absence of service, repeated non-compliance, as well as the possession of ammunition and imitation equipment obtained during training. According to the calculations made by the Ministry of Interior, the cost of detention at the detention centre of one member of the Defence Forces is EUR 17 per day. Thus, if the average amount of disciplinary action is taken into account, the costs that would arise would amount to EUR 12000 per year and would be covered by the Defence Forces. So all the costs of implementing this draft would amount to EUR 12000 and will be covered by the Defence Forces. Also in the event of a disciplinary sanction being imposed on him, the Defence Forces arrange for the detention of a military officer. The choice of the detention centre shall be based on the availability of vacant places in police detention centres and shall not depend on the area, but on where there are places and where it is closest and most practical to delivering the person. Once the law enters into force, the proper functioning of the Disciplinary System of the Defence Forces and the optimal use of state resources will be ensured. That's it. I hope that the Riigikogu will process this bill and adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U190	Thank you. You have questions. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The draft concerns Estonian Defence Forces, but a French, English and US contingent is arriving. How will relations, say, be regulated with these countries in the event of such misdemeanours or incidents? Does this relate to separate agreements? It doesn't really concern this subject, but I'm asking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U192	Thank you, good questioner! That's a very relevant question. There is a NATO agreement between our allied forces and Estonia, called NATO SOFA. It regulates the so-called jurisdictional jurisdiction of military personnel. They are primarily under the jurisdiction of that State, and these troops are responsible for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U193	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Consider me naive, but I was somewhat surprised that the Defence Forces needed to spend such a cost in order to apprehend the militia. I somehow assumed that discipline in the Defence Forces was still so hard to get drunk and do some wrong things there was impossible. Why is this law of amendment even on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U195	Thank you, good questioner! It certainly has nothing to do with our defence forces starting to act any worse, but the Defence Forces have different kinds of people in every big organization. Most arrests, as I mentioned in my report, involve conscripts, or young men, who have entered the service. It happens. Why are we changing this law? A number of reforms have taken place and it is simply appropriate to regulate the administrative burden of the country in such a way as to jointly introduce the opportunities available to the Police and Border Guard Board and to make the regulation more flexible. Existing detention facilities will remain and be used if necessary. It is certainly not as if the armed forces were beginning to commit more disciplinary violations, but it is simply a change in terms of order. The philosophical background in this matter is that the Defence Forces should, above all, defend the state, reduce any additional activities and use resources for their core activities. Since the Police and Border Guard Board has this ability, it makes sense to cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U196	Minister, there are no further questions for you. For the presentation of the committee, I would like to ask Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U197	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before sending it to first reading with the Ministry of Defence officials at its meeting on 12 December last year. The draft provides for the possibility that disciplinary measures imposed on members of the Defence Forces may be imposed in police detention facilities, in addition to the Defence Forces detention facilities. Where possible, the nearest police detention centre shall be chosen as the place where the arrest is carried out. Detention is organised by the Defence Forces, whose budget also compensates for the cost of keeping a military officer in disciplinary custody. In doing so, a distinction must be made between those arrests which are imposed on a military officer as disciplinary sanctions and those which may be imposed on a military officer as a civilian for misconduct outside his term of office. For example, a financial penalty for wrongdoing can be replaced by a seizure. In the case of detention for a misdemeanour, the costs incurred by the Police and Border Guard Board for a military officer in detention shall not be compensated, only in the case of disciplinary arrest. The Minister of Defence's presentation was detailed and thorough, and I have nothing very important and informative to add. I would just like to stress that the members of the armed forces currently under disciplinary arrest are to be guarded by active troops who are entitled to exercise public authority because the active service of the Defence Forces is a special type of public service. However, the guarding of the armed forces under arrest and the accompanying activities are not the main task of the operational forces. The active troops who are to be released from this activity will be able to be used more effectively in their core activities, in particular military training. Now I am talking about procedural decisions. At its meeting on 12 December last year, the National Defence Committee decided (consensually) to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be sent to the Riigikogu for the first reading, including the session on 11 January, and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading of the draft. The rapporteur was appointed here. At this meeting, the Committee on National Defence also decided (consensually) to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5.15 p.m. on 25 January. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-11_U198	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. As we have just heard, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 346. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 346 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 January. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you for the procedure. See you tomorrow at 10:00! Closure of the sitting at 4.15 p.m.
