ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 14th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do the members of the Riigikogu wish to submit drafts or questions? No, it's not. In that case, the presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U2	We move to today's agenda, which consists of two points. The first item is the first reading of Bill 430 of the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. And I'm asking for an originator's presentation by Secretary of Defense of the Chair, Margus Tsahkna! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U3	Dear Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Before you is the draft law on ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America 430. As the originator, I'll give you an overview of what the contract is. Since this is an international agreement, it is a ratification process, which means two readings in the Riigikogu. And I very much hope that the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia will ratify this agreement on defence cooperation. Latvia and Lithuania have already done so: Lithuania in February and Latvia in March, including. Now, about the deal. Based on the current security situation, the military presence of the United States in all the Eastern Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, including Estonia, was significantly increased in spring 2014. The need for more detailed regulation of their status by bilateral agreement has been relevant for the last two years. The conclusion of this agreement is a clear example of the deepening defence cooperation between the United States and Estonia and reflects the United States' strategic and long-term interest in the security of our region. I can also confirm this after yesterday's joint meeting of the Baltic defence ministers with the United States Secretary of Defense, James Mattis. This agreement complements the agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of armed forces, also known as NATO SOFA, and replaces the agreement between Estonia and the United States on the use of areas and buildings held by the Defence Forces in 2015. NATO SOFA was concluded already in 1951 between NATO Member States. Time has moved on and therefore modernized bilateral agreements are needed. The purpose of this agreement is to create the best prerequisites for the presence of US troops in Estonia and to increase legal clarity in defence cooperation between Estonia and the United States. It will be safer and easier for both the decision-makers and the armed forces themselves to send their units to a country where there are effective procedures for resolving practical issues. There is a wide range of topics to be dealt with in the agreement. The status of the U.S. armed forces and their members, dependants and contractors, exemptions, imports and exports of property, environmental protection, customs procedures, the sharing of criminal jurisdiction between Estonia and the United States, and much more, are regulated. It is an agreement on defence cooperation between the classical United States of America. They have done so with several countries, including NATO's European partners, such as Germany. So there's nothing extraordinary or new about it. Now let's get closer to the deal. By agreement, the status of the Estonian Armed Forces agreement NATO SOFA makes use of the possibility of allowing the United States to exercise the right over its own people, if both countries have co-responsibility to do so. In very important cases, Estonia can take back the opt-out within 21 days of identifying a specific event. The purpose of this extension is to enable the United States, as a sending country, to guarantee the protection of constitutional rights for people posted abroad to serve in Estonia. This will be balanced with the interests of Estonia as a host country and the rights of victims. The agreement provides for different tax incentives based on the principle that the host country should not earn any income from the presence of foreign armed forces. Professional exemptions are also provided for in the NATO SOFA agreement on the status of the armed forces, which I spoke about earlier, and they do not become significantly wider than before. For this purpose, Estonian legislation has already put in place an effective mechanism for implementing tax incentives. Tax incentives are introduced for personal goods in order to enable people to devote themselves to or support the tasks of the United States Armed Forces. Setting such personal benefits is common practice in defence cooperation and also common practice in Estonia. In Estonia, personal preferences have been introduced, for example, in NATO's staff element, NATO's Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre and also in the Baltic Defence College. The United States uses not only its own armed forces but also private foreign companies and their employees, such as construction companies and caterers, to fulfil our common defence objectives. The Agreement provides for concessions and special legal status for these Contracting Parties, which apply only to services provided to the armed forces of the United States. The Government of the Republic approved this draft agreement on 12 January 2017 and the Agreement was signed on 17 January 2017. According to the mandate of Estonia, the Secretary of Defence, i.e. myself and the United States of America signed the American Ambassador in Estonia. The Agreement shall enter into force on the date on which the Parties notify each other of the completion of the internal procedure necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement. In Estonia, the termination of the procedure means ratification of this agreement in the Riigikogu. During the next few months, Estonia will also negotiate implementing agreements with the US Armed Forces in order to establish specific procedures. I hope that the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia will ratify this agreement because it will provide more certainty in the cooperation between Estonia and the United States of America in defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U4	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. First please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Point 1 of Article XI contains such a text that aircraft, ships and vehicles may enter, leave and move freely within the territory of Estonia, and entry into and inspection of such US government vehicles is not permitted without the permission of the US authorities. I've, as far as it's possible, tried to find out if anyone's ever received such permission to enter, control and investigate. I found a huge amount of clues about how they're taking all the illegal stuff across the border, but not at all information about the U.S. government giving such permission. Do we abandon our borders, no longer want to control the situation on our territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U6	Thank you, good questioner! Airplanes and ships of the US Armed Forces may enter the territory of the Republic of Estonia, the airspace of the Republic of Estonia or the territorial waters of the Republic of Estonia only with the permission of the relevant authority, with the permission of the Republic of Estonia, as prescribed. So we're not giving up our limit. We will not give up any specks of sovereignty under this treaty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U7	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U8	Thank you. In itself, it is very sympathetic that, in addition to the Government's cooperation agreement with the United Russia, the Estonian state and the United States will now enter into a cooperation agreement. I'm sure it's nice and the opposition will support it. But in your speech you mentioned that the other Baltic countries have concluded this agreement, if I remember correctly, already in February. Why do we only get to the fact that we are discussing it here in the Riigikogu in May? Is there any objective explanation for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U9	Thank you. These explanations must be provided by the Riigikogu itself, because the Government of the Republic entered into an agreement on 17 January 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U10	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I didn't ask that in the committee. Of course, we do not expect the Allied soldiers to commit crimes here. After all, you can imagine that a traffic accident or a minor stain dent between an Estonian civilian vehicle and an ally's truck is likely to happen. My question: can you comment on whether the Allied Vehicle Insurance Company is in Estonia or in America or how such stainings will be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U12	Thank you. In any case, it is different how the Allied Forces have arranged their own insurance: whether they have even arranged it or whether it is simply guaranteed by the Allied Forces' own defence forces. But the damage caused by the Allied forces in Estonia to the civilian party for some unpredictable reason is compensated by the Estonian state through its defence forces when it comes to the performance of duties, tasks. If an Allied person gets involved in an insurance case in a civil situation, such as off-duty, then the insurance system applicable to a particular private vehicle will be applied. It must still be insured under the laws of the Republic of Estonia. These are specific cases. So basically, during the time of the allies' presence, whether in the course of the exercises or in whatever way, the damage caused to the civilian party is compensated by the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U13	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U14	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I understand that this document is actually a more detailed and concrete development of NATO SOFA, adopted in 1953. I have these questions. If you look at today's press, the Estonian prosecutor's office has shown concern about whether we do not give too many freedoms and rights to the American side. Secondly, on the last point of Article XVII, which reads that the article does not exclude tax refunds on exports. It doesn't make any sense. Why don't you explain what that means?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U15	Thank you. First of all, the first part of the question. It is common for countries that send their troops to the territory of other countries to guarantee maximum rights to their soldiers in their own country. There is nothing extraordinary here, and Estonia will not enter into any extraordinary agreement either. If you look at this particular agreement between Estonia and the United States in more detail, yes, we will give jurisdiction to the United States. But if we have a public interest in the matter, we can take that jurisdiction back within 21 days. This agreement itself shows that we have allied relations: the United States actually trust our legal system, our judicial system. There are also countries where these agreements are certainly much more rigid, i.e. US soldiers are only subject to US jurisdiction. So I don't see any real-life problem here. In the case of NATO SOFA, this jurisdiction is a little more flexible. If any breach occurs during the performance of the duties, the proceedings shall be followed under the jurisdiction of the State concerned. The basis shall be the disciplinary procedure for infringements committed during the performance of their duties. If the incident takes place during a duty-free period, it will fall under Estonia's jurisdiction unless otherwise agreed. That's how it works. Estonia itself has also been interested in guaranteeing the rights of its soldiers. We made a similar deal with Kuwait when our boys were there. Rather, it is precisely the rights of the soldiers of the Sending State that must be guaranteed. This is necessary in practical life when the legal order is different, the trial is different and perhaps the cultural background and practices are different. After all, we are all interested that if we send our people to the conflict zone, the danger zone and something happens there, we will guarantee our citizens, our soldiers, our military people a legitimate procedure in the judicial system. The second question was, too. As far as giving this opportunity is concerned, it is in case there really is something that needs to be taken out in carrying out these same tasks, something to be paid, so that tax distinction can be used. In real life, however, we are talking mostly about the fact that when things are imported for personal purposes, we do not charge taxes on them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U16	Good manager! Good minister! I am reading article XII, where there is such an excellent pulpit that Estonia exercises its sovereign right of discretion to waive the right to exercise its jurisdiction under penal law. I ask whether this in the language of the country means that Estonia renounces its sovereignty to judge and punish U.S. soldiers who, for example, are fighting over some Estonian girls. It has been said that sovereignty can be restored in especially important isolated cases. Where's the border? What are these particularly important individual cases when Estonia's sovereignty is restored within 21 days?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U17	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U18	Thank you, good questioner! Certainly Estonia will not give up its sovereignty. However, in certain cases we are talking about applying jurisdiction to a particular person, and according to this agreement, Estonia has the right to withdraw that jurisdiction within 21 days. The Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Estonia is the competent authority to assess it. This is primarily about public interest. If there is a public interest in any particular infringement and it is also in the interests of the victims, for example, that the trial should take place in Estonia, then we can do so. This is part of this agreement, and everything depends on a specific case. I certainly do not go along with the saying that Estonia is giving up its sovereignty. It is an agreement between the two allied countries. And with one thing, we can be absolutely certain: no person, if he is guilty of a specific act that goes against our legal order, will go unpunished. I think the legal order of the United States is what we trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U19	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U20	Thank you. I trust our legal order, America absolutely doesn't. Last year an American soldier killed a Japanese girl on Okinawa Island, which pissed off all of Japan, but that guy was just sent from that island to somewhere in America. I couldn't find the information that awaits him. There are hundreds of these cases. I understand that you certainly cannot answer this question now, but could you give information before the second reading in the Committee on National Defence on which countries and how much has been requested in the case of such crimes, we are taking the hardest steps, for example, to restore the sovereignty of rape and slaughter. And how many times has the American government given them that right? I couldn't find a single case like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U21	Thank you, good questioner! I have an absolutely second opinion on the legal order of the American state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U22	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U23	Thank you. In today's Postimees, the Public Prosecutor's Office is concerned that in cases where an Estonian victim has, for example, a claim against an American soldier, this may also be just a material requirement In such cases, are we sure that we will protect the Estonian victim as best we can? Or should it be made clear here that if it is an Estonian victim, it is always important for the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U24	Thank you. The Estonian victim is always very important to the Estonian state. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U25	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U26	Thank you, dear waitress. My question concerns Article XXI, which says that the US Armed Forces in Estonia can, at mutually agreed locations in Estonia, open shopping centres, grocery shops, other sales outlets, open fairs, social and training centres and leisure centres for the US armed forces, dependants and other persons by mutual agreement. At the same time, it is said that Estonia does not require licences, permits, inspections or other regulatory controls to provide such services. Why is such a distinction? If our Estonian people open some kind of shopping centre or leisure centre, there are strict rules, training, licences and everything else are required, but this is the exception. Is that so all over Estonia? In short, if the U.S. Armed Forces, for example, in Setumaa, want to open up some kind of amusement facility, don't they even have to apply for some kind of license?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U27	Thank you, good questioner! This is actually about how they organise the lives of their own armed forces or servants on their own base or anywhere. The aim is not to earn income with any activity in the Republic of Estonia, without having licenses, etc. Such civil activities are certainly subject to the laws of the Republic of Estonia. So we are actually talking here about the arrangements for the armed forces and also the persons involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U28	Arto Aas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U29	Thank you. Firstly, I want to reassure the Minister and say that do not worry if there are not all the votes from the Central Party Group to support this draft. By listening to their anti-American views, the opposition will certainly help, and we will be able to adopt this cooperation agreement. But I'd like to figure out why it gets to us so late. You said that the government signed it on 17 January, which is right, but for some reason it was not submitted to Parliament until three months later. The issue is not that Parliament has waited or waited. The question is, the government has been stalling. Perhaps you can explain why it took three months to send this signed bill to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U30	I understand that you actually have a desire to create political noise on a subject that does not exist. The corresponding actions have been carried out between the parties after the signature and the government has not delayed in any way here. We will process this document as we have planned. But I want to congratulate the Reform Party on really sympathetic that, despite other activities, it is also thought of the security of the Estonian state in general. Thank you very much for your support in concluding this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U31	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I have a question as to whether such an agreement is being concluded, concluded or intended to be concluded with other countries whose military personnel are on our territory. And secondly, why do we need to increase this bureaucracy so much again that each country has to make such an agreement on its own? Couldn't there have been a single agreement that applies to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U33	Thank you, good questioner! As I said in my introductory speech, NATO SOFA has been concluded with NATO countries. It is a framework agreement that applies to everyone, and continues to apply to the United States. However, it has been the custom and desire of the United States of America to conclude bilateral agreements in those regions where they are in a larger military position. We do not intend to conclude bilateral agreements with anyone at the moment, because the same NATO SOFA is covering them. The United States also concluded a similar agreement with Latvia and Lithuania, as I mentioned. It has already been ratified by the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments. So, in the near future, I do not see that we need to conclude separate contracts yet. If the Member States want to clarify some of the activities, we are always prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U34	Inara Luigas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U35	Thank you, dear waitress. My second question is on Article XXIV on the 'Workforce'. It states: "The U.S. Armed Forces and the organisations providing services to the armed forces referred to in Articles XXI and XXII of this Agreement may employ and employ dependants and other persons who are entitled to work in the territory of Estonia by applying this article to their employment relations with those persons. The dependants are not required to obtain a work permit. ' Does this article require dependants and persons in employment to be authorised to reside in Estonia or at least to stay in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U36	Thank you. Of course, all persons who come to Estonia need a legal basis. And if we look at defence forces, military and related persons, for example, the Minister of Defence will grant permission to enter Estonia. In any case, they must have a legal basis for their stay in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U37	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, When you answered my colleague, Mr Aasa, you said something about looking in the mirror: the Riigikogu has itself delayed. If you had answered the second question, as you answered the second question, that there was a procedure where you had to sign, etc., it would have been clear. But your first answer was that we've done it in January and why you're only processing it in May to look in the mirror. But the question is that, of course, every person is important to Estonia. All the victims are very important, as you briefly replied. But what really happens when the victim, an Estonian person, still has to start communicating with America? Is there free legal aid for him, is the Estonian state helping him? What is really going on if there is a situation where the country in which the matter is being discussed is America, but the victim is in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U39	Thank you. Of course, the Estonian state will help him in this process. And certainly the United States has the same interest in ensuring the protection of the interests of the victim on a bilateral basis. We are not talking about some hostile country here, we are talking about an ally country. Our interest is that all procedural procedures are carried out transparently, all evidence is available, protection is organised, etc. This is certainly in the interests of the Estonian law enforcement authorities and also of the judicial system. Well, in any case, it is a specific matter that is precisely being debated. I am rather positive about this, and I can assure you that we have also worked very hard with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior to conclude this agreement, and we have a common understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U40	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U41	I'm gonna take this opportunity to calm down Inara Luis. These so-called shopping centres are the shops of the U.S. Army itself, which they supply in a standard manner over the weather. Obviously, in order not to be checked by the Estonian Labour Inspectorate, this contract point is needed. But the amusement facilities could, of course, go and offer them, that would be quite interesting. However, this is the question for the Minister of Defence. We are dealing with an agreement with the United States here, but do you not feel that, by listening to the questions of the Centre Party, we are actually recognising the functioning of the United Russia Agreement in its course?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U42	Thank you. I am currently dealing with the agreement with the United States and I am not dealing with the Common Russia Agreement. I've never had any business with it, and I don't want to know about it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U43	More... Inara Luigas, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U44	I can use the speech on the subject, because my name was said here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U45	No, at this stage you can ask a procedural question or use the reply right in response to Eerik-Niles Kross. Would you like to say the answer to Eerik-Niles Kross? Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U46	Yeah, I wish. I'm just saying that this colleague's saying that he could offer Setus services, go and entertain the U.S. Armed Forces a little bit. Secondly, the Minister did not answer the question why such an exception would be made. After all, all licences are required in the Estonian country, and we are talking not only about shopping centres, but about all the listed institutions. Why are such exceptions made? This question, too, remained unanswered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U47	Understandably, however, the third question cannot be asked. And I'm pretty sure Eerik-Niles Kross meant Setu's cultural entertainment, nothing bad. So let this be settled here. Thank Minister Tsahkna! I would now like to ask Mr Hanso, Chairman of the Committee on National Defence, for a joint presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U48	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft with Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna at his meeting on 2 May before submitting it to the first reading. The purpose of this draft is to ratify the Treaty. a Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America signed on 17 January 2004. This agreement contributes to the promotion of security and defence cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America. One additional remark: The Government of the Republic sent this draft to the Riigikogu for processing on 17 April. a and, as we know, this week was followed by a sitting-free week. The National Defence Committee has dealt with this issue at the maximum possible pace. A few words from the background of the bill, too. In 2014, the United States launched Operation Atlantic Resolve in Ukraine in connection with Russia's aggression, which increased the military presence of the United States in a large number of NATO countries, including Estonia. In 2015 an agreement was concluded between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America to make investments in Estonia in support of the presence of Americans. The 430 bill ratifies an agreement, which is a logical continuation of the previous agreement and contains more areas and is much more detailed. The Defence Cooperation Agreement consists of 30 articles on the status of the United States armed forces, its members, civilian composition, dependants and contractual partners and their employees during their participation in defence cooperation with the Republic of Estonia. It also regulates the granting of access and use rights to agreed buildings and areas and the pre-location and storage of U.S. armed forces' defence equipment. Tax issues related to professional activities are also addressed alongside other topics. This agreement establishes an effective framework for defence cooperation, enabling practical projects to be carried out and, by means of agreed procedures and principles, supporting the presence of the United States forces here. I believe that we have a consensus that this is very much needed at this time. Now also procedural decisions. At its meeting on 2 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu, including the session on 11 May, and to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the first reading here. I was appointed rapporteur for the draft. The Commission also decided (again by consensus) to propose a deadline for the submission of draft amendments. May 24, 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U49	Thanks to the waitress! Any questions? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 430. First reading is complete. And I will set the deadline for the submission of 430 amendments in s. May 24, 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U50	The second item is the first reading of draft 431 of the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on National Defence (Implementing the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America). And I'm asking for an originator's presentation by Secretary of Defense of the Chair, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! You have before you the draft Act amending the VAT Act and the National Defence Act 431 relating to the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America on defence cooperation. Now a brief overview of the changes. In order to implement the Defence Cooperation Agreement, it is also necessary to introduce amendments to the VAT Act and the National Defence Act. Although there is a specific agreement on defence cooperation with the United States Government, a broader draft has been drawn up. It also includes possible future agreements: not just focus on one country, but provides a universal approach. One amendment to the VAT Act states that a member of the contract partner of the foreign armed forces, who is subject to the foreign agreement granting the benefit in this case, for example, the agreement on defence cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America, will be exempt from import duties on personal property. The armed forces of many countries, including Estonia, use contractual partners for supporting but necessary activities for the functioning of the armed forces (e.g. vehicle maintenance, logistics and other such activities). The relocation of armed forces will also be followed by contract partners, and certain exemptions are also foreseen to support these activities related to the US Armed Forces. The draft amends the mandate rule for the VAT exemption and refund procedure. So far, the Government of the Republic established the relevant procedures, the draft granting the right to introduce a regulation to the Minister of Finance. The amendment takes account of the fact that the Regulation only lays down technical rules when submitting an application to the Tax and Customs Board and there is no interministerial link. The last amendment to the VAT Act replaces the reference to the name of the Minister with a reference to the Minister responsible for the field, following the reform of the Government Act of the Republic in 2014. The amendment takes into account the possibility of division between ministers. For example, already in several ministries, areas have already been divided between different ministers. According to the amendment to the National Defence Act, a member of the contract partner's staff who provides services to foreign armed forces can be granted an entry permit in Estonia on the same basis as a person related to foreign armed forces. As the amendment entails the need to give a new implementing act, a finance minister's regulation, the proposal is to enforce the law if the Riigikogu so decides, from 1 July 2017. Now a couple of practical things. For example, which groups of goods are subject to tax exemptions. This is precisely the principle that the exemption applies to the goods which the person imports to Estonia for his own use. It is not meant here that a person can, for example, start selling these goods in Estonia for his own benefit, that he has imported them here exempt from tax and then starts marketing them here for profit. It is certainly out of the question that this agreement does not give rise to such an opportunity. For example, personal items are: furniture, one motor vehicle per person aged 18 or over, and other goods intended for personal or domestic use or consumption. More broadly, the principle is, first of all, that we, as an Estonian state, do not earn any income from these persons, because we want these countries, these people, to come here to ensure our protection. Secondly, it is the same principle that it is actually our job to create the best possible conditions for these people to come from their far-off homeland. And this is also an international practice for our own persons who, in our allied countries, will eventually serve the Estonian state, that such benefits will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U52	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Peter Ernits first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U53	Good manager! Good minister! I read here that over the last two years (including this year) the Americans have spent 47 million and 47 million to build infrastructure on a parte basis. I ask about the interest that this 47 million American money has actually built, and what if they leave, will remain for the Estonian state as well. Enlighten us, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U54	Thank you. For example, investments in Ämari Air Force Base, investments in our infrastructure Tapa, different buildings, all of them remain in Estonia. The principle has been that if the United States has decided to invest its taxpayers' dollars here, then we have always added as much or a little more on our side. At yesterday's meeting with Defence Minister Mattis, this was mentioned separately: they see that when they invest, we also contribute from our relatively small budget, which covers up to 2.2% of GDP. Yes, these are specific things that can also be identified with your own eyes when you go to these objects. This aid and investment have been very important to us in increasing our defence capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U55	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U56	Good manager! Good minister! I'm gonna keep this up. How does it actually work, 47 million each and Ämari and Kill? Is there an equal effort to put Ämari airbase and Tapa each equally? Or one puts more in Ämari and the other to Tapa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U57	I honestly don't understand this question. We put as much as we can out of the pipe into these investments to ensure infrastructure for the Defence Forces and our allied forces in Estonia. All these programmes, on the basis of which the United States invests in Estonia, for example, but also in its other allied countries, are always welcome. There's no rule that 50:50 or whatever. Our goal is to get these infrastructure objects ready. And I can say that the Estonian state itself has contributed very, very much to this. If you get enough, visit Tapa, you will see what major investments have been made there. This is a serious development that other partner countries, Member States, too, are looking at with a slight feeling of envy. So there's no rule in that sense that if one puts 50%, the other puts 50%. These are mutual agreements and every ally's investment, which will help to increase our defence capabilities, is very welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U58	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! On behalf of the Commission, as co-rapporteur, I would like to ask Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the Committee on National Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U59	Respectable, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The draft under discussion is directly related to the draft Act on ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America 430, the first reading of which was just completed in the context of the previous item on the agenda. Defence Minister Tsahkna also made a comprehensive presentation of 431 here. And from both points of view, I am not going to dissect the substance of the draft under discussion in more detail and repeat what has already been said. The draft introduces a VAT exemption and refund for professional defence cooperation resulting from the implementation of the agreement and specifies the number of institutions and persons involved in the tax credit. When assessing the impact of the tax exemptions introduced by the bill, it must be taken into account that the loss of financial income is inextricably accompanied by national defence benefits for the Republic of Estonia. It is also necessary to take into account the increasing demand for services and goods by beneficiaries and institutions and the positive impact on employment. The National Defence Committee also discussed this draft before presenting it to the first reading with the Minister of Defence Tsahkna in his s. a at its meeting on 2 May. Now for procedural decisions. At its meeting on 2 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to invite the Board of the Riigikogu to include the draft under discussion for the first reading on the agenda of today's session of 11 May, i.e. the Riigikogu, and to invite the Riigikogu to conclude the first reading here. I was appointed rapporteur for the draft. In addition, the Commission decided by consensus to propose a draft deadline for the submission of amendments. May 24, 5.15 p.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-11_U60	There are no questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 431. First reading is complete. And I will set the deadline for the submission of 431 amendments in s. May 24, 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. Closure of the sitting at 10.46 a.m.
