ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 9th working week of the V plenary session. I wish you all a successful and busy spring. After all, the spring has always started a few hours ago, even when the sun doesn't shine. Now is the time to hand over inquiries and drafts. Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U2	Inquiry to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour about the Health Financing Scheme. A few months ago, the doctors approached the government. Their message was clear: the availability and quality of medical care has deteriorated critically and the problem is not just about money but about the whole system. Because the current scheme for financing Estonian health care is not sustainable, experts have spoken both here in Estonia and outside Estonia. At the same time, decisions have been postponed. The problem is also acutely highlighted in financing the treatment of cancer patients. During the last three years, at least a hundred cases of cancer patients have been excluded from financing treatment in Estonia. In order for you to understand what this means, I will describe the situation. In life, it looks something like this. The patient will know that he has been diagnosed with cancer and metastases, but because the cancer is in the final stage, there will be no surgery. In some cases, people are told that there is actually a medicine that can affect the course of the disease, reduce pain, prolong quality of life, even cure, but it is not available because it is not funded by the health insurance fund. The price of the medicinal product is EUR 5000-6000 per month. That's what the citizen gets out of the doctor's office. The emotions that a person then develops are difficult to describe. It is very difficult for a person, both psychologically and physically, but even greater is his disappointment in the country. That's why I have a lot of questions for Evgeny Ossinovski. I'm not going to read them all, but I'm definitely going to read them out. Does the Minister of Health and Labour see the problem in the Health Financing Scheme? When is he going to be actively involved in this? Why, in his opinion, is there a situation in which doctors prescribe medicines and think they work, while the health insurance fund does not fund them? Does he feel that this situation is justified? The official position of the Health Insurance Fund is known. This position is challenged by doctors who deal with cancer patients every day. They see that there is another problem, not just financing. To conclude, there have been at least a hundred cases in Estonia in the last three years when the cancer patient has been turned away from financing treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, it is best to express our joy at spring and together later in a free microphone, otherwise it will happen, as has happened now, that even Viktoria Ladynskaja did not hear the bell, who reveled the time prescribed for her. Next up, Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful spring start for me too! It is a pleasure to see that the members of the government coalition themselves are also asking questions about the beginning of spring. As you can see, it is not enough that the Cabinet can ask the Minister directly. However, as we know last week, we were able to read about the redistribution plan for refugees on the Postimees opinion portal and we are also aware of the discussions that took place today in the IRL Group, so I am happy to hand over, on behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to suspend Estonia's participation in the refugee redistribution plan. On 22 September 2015, the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union agreed on the operation of the redistribution plan, on the basis of which Estonia should receive 553 persons from three countries: Greece, Italy and Turkey on a voluntary basis. To date, more than 120 persons have been relocated to Estonia. We know that there have been tragic cases in recent times, in the last six months. One person was set on fire in Haapsalu, and the other was even set on fire. This woman is still in the ICU at the hospital, she's in a very difficult situation. We are also happy to meet halfway through the IRL, which has proposed to suspend the functioning of the redistribution plan and to make it a recommendation to the government in the form of a draft. Our group therefore proposes that Estonia should suspend its participation in this mechanism. We also expect other members of the Riigikogu, especially members of the IRL, to vote in favour of our draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U5	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U6	Mr President, good representatives of the people, a beautiful spring! On behalf of seven members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I have an inquiry to address Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The inquiry concerns the municipality of Alutaguse in Ida-Virumaa. These answers, which we received from Minister Mikhail Korb on 13 March, did not satisfy us because we did not hear any cultural history, economic, social or anthropological reasoning as to why the great municipality of Alutaguse should be made. Not only did the small Alutaguse rural municipality on 16 and 17 March, i.e. meeting with the leaders of Alajõe, Tudulinna, Iisaku, Mäetaguse and Illuka rural municipalities, it became clear that this small Alutaguse rural municipality has a two-year economic, social and cultural development plan. Why is it thrown away? Why and who needs such a great power, which could cause a security crisis in the entire region of Ida-Viru? We really want Ida-Virumaa to become a prosperous, very rich and exemplary region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U7	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On the basis of § 139 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Samson will be briefed. Let me briefly mention the content of this question. The county government of Saaremaa and Hiiumaa has on several occasions expressed a strong wish to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that the summer timetable on the Triigi-Sõru route in Soela Strait will be tightened. The inter-island traffic is known to boost cooperation between the two islands as well as tourism. Last week, the Ministry announced, as if definitively, that public transport services supported by public funds were primarily intended to ensure the desired transport of passengers and not of rural governments. According to the Ministry, supporting the economic activities of individual undertakings would be contrary to the principles of public transport management and financing and would constitute unlawful State aid. A few years ago, the minister's representative in Hiiumaa stated that the new ferry Soela coming on the route in spring could remain small, and the possibility of ordering more trips was announced to compensate for this. Now it's kind of out of the question. There are several questions. For example, what is the logic of the sentence that support for the economic activities of individual undertakings constitutes unlawful State aid? How many times has the Ministry opened an unacceptable State aid procedure for this shipping route? Always, as far as I can remember, there have been cargo cars on the ship. Is it really the objective of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to limit entrepreneurship in Hiiumaa? There is also the question of tourism. In a few months, the top season of tourism will begin in the islands. What is the willingness of ferry traffic to increase the positive socio-economic impact of tourism? Several members of the Reform Party have signed the inquiry. I would also like to express my hope that the Ministry will find a positive solution before the deadline for reply is reached. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U9	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U10	Mr. Vice-Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates six draft laws and submits a draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law of Property Law Act and other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two drafts in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law on the resolution of labour disputes. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law on ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser. Sixth, a draft law amending the Audit Act and related other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. Seventhly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Accepting the Fundamentals of Earthyard Policy until 2050'. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Thank you and have a nice spring!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U11	I have adopted eight drafts and three questions on behalf of the Bureau. The Management Board of the Riigikogu processes them on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. We're gonna do a presence check. It's supposed to bring silence to the hall. There are 87 members of the Riigikogu, no 14. Now we have an opportunity and an obligation to confirm this week's agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the approval of the agenda for the 9th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. The agenda has been approved because 86 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U12	Our agenda today consists of responding to eight questions. The first of these inquiries has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Külliiki Kübarsepp, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams about the well-founded desire of villages to change self-governance. In the name of the heirs, Külliki Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U13	Good vice-chairman and ladies and gentlemen, good spring for me too! Indeed, a month ago we approached the Chancellor of Justice regarding the well-founded desire of the villages to change self-governance. The provisions relating to the transfer of visitors from one municipality to another are found in several laws, in addition to the Administrative Reform Act, in the Administrative Division of Estonian Territory Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. The abundance of provisions does not make this process simple at all and has created misunderstandings. At the same time, as expected, a number of cases have arisen in the course of the administrative reform, when villages have developed a strong desire to decide their own ownership. We have already drawn attention to a number of issues in this Chamber. Today we draw special attention to the address of the villages of Sauga municipality. Municipalities, which include villages, would prefer to leave the composition of another municipality, are in some cases in a coercive situation because they are required to have at least 5 000 inhabitants. Such a requirement is not easy to meet in sparsely populated areas. As a result, the municipalities do not recommend any villages leaving. As a result of all this, several councils have dealt with the wishes of villages to move from one municipality to another in a superior way to the community and probably also in violation of the requirements and procedures laid down by law. Consequently, we have five questions for the Chancellor of Justice. I bring out the most important, these are the first and the fifth. The second, third and fourth questions concern ongoing processes and have already been answered to one degree or another. The biggest questions are as follows: How do you assess the legal clarity of the procedure to change the self-governance of villages in the law? Are the procedures relating to the initiation of such a process or its possible implementation sufficiently clear and understandable for village residents and local government councils? In your opinion, what are the possibilities for the Government of the Republic to act in the event of mixed regulations in order to meet the wishes of local communities? I look forward to the answer that has come from the promise that, until 15 April, the villages will be able to make proposals that correspond to the county governor, so that the government will have the opportunity to meet the villages. However, last week we heard a reference from the Minister of Public Administration that § 9 (7) of the Administrative Reform Act, if I remember correctly, precludes any possibility for the government to go to the villages to help. If you read this law, it seems that the government doesn't have any obstacles. I expect the Chancellor of Justice to explain these legal bases, both the people of these municipalities and our legislators to expect this. I want to stress that the villages feel as if they were left alone. But the Riigikogu must not leave its people alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U14	Ülle Madise, Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia, answers the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you to the heirs for their questioning. I must say in advance that my answer is not exactly what you expect, because the point of asking for information is to ask for further clarification and perhaps some thought development on the work done. For a number of questions, I can tell you in advance, but it is probably impossible to answer. I can talk about what we've been able to do in dealing with these problems. Undoubtedly, the question of whether and to what extent people's wishes for membership of their village can be taken into account and taken into account is absolutely justified. So, now the questions in order. Mrs Hatter has read the questions as a whole, I will follow the numbering, but the entire wording will not be repeated, if I may. The question of legal clarity is once again very well founded. Even an associate professor of local government law working in our administration must work hours and days to find out more or less what rights one villager or another, but also a member of the parish council, minister, government or Riigikogu actually has. Administrative reform is governed by a number of laws. Apart from those mentioned by Mrs Kübarsepp, i.e. the law on administrative reform, the Act on administrative distribution of Estonian territory and the Act on the organisation of local government, the Act on the facilitation of the merger of local government units, the Law on the name of the place and, of course, the Act on administrative procedure. On the contrary, such legislation also includes the Civil Service Act and a number of other laws, in addition to a number of government regulations, including those which are very closely associated with today's inquiry, namely the Government's regulation on the procedure for determining the opinion of residents, which was amended just last Thursday due to the start of the forced merger phase. It is true that it is quite difficult for a trained lawyer working in this field every day to answer people's legitimate questions immediately and with simple words. In its judgment of 20 December 2016, the Supreme Court also dealt with the issue of legal clarity. He reproached that he had been wronged against basic regulations and that the texts weren't nice to read. After all, this argument began at the Supreme Court, that people did not know how to read all these texts as a collection, and that they understood completely differently on the basis of the criteria for exceptions to the requirement of 5 000 residents, whether they should be made, whether they should be made and who has the right to demand them. The Supreme Court said that there are too many breast and platitudes, references to other laws within the law, as well as incomplete references. At the same time, the Supreme Court decided that this lack of clarity is not a lack of legal clarity within the meaning of the Constitution, i.e. the Supreme Court did not declare these provisions unconstitutional because of a lack of legal clarity. So there is no other conclusion to be drawn here at the moment than that a clearer text has to be sought in the future. This may be assisted by the abandonment of replacement activities. If, with such momentum, the best lawyers did not try to improve the functioning of the systems and the institutional balance was not violated, but the same people would work to prepare and implement the necessary reforms humanely and in the light of the principles of the Constitution for Estonia, then, I think, everyone would have a great deal more benefit. The second question specifically concerned the wish of the inhabitants of Soontaga village to leave the municipality of Puka and to join Helme rural municipality, which will become Tõrva municipality during the merger. The question was how the Municipality of Puka and the Council have complied with the requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act and other laws. The answer is published, it comes from the end of last year, and I will briefly refer to it. On the basis of a request from the villagers of Soontaga, we found that the meetings were not recorded properly. Although § 32 (3) of the Local Government Organisation Act expressly obliges them to do so, the representatives of the villagers were not invited to the council to discuss the decision. The decision was refused, or the Puka Council decided that they did not agree with Soonta's departure from their municipality. There were other procedural errors that quite rightly upset the villagers. We asked the Municipality of Puka to make these arrangements, we also sent this information to the Minister of State Administration, as well as to the Mayor of the Land (in case of need to supervise the Municipality of Puka and the Municipality). The municipality of Puka took up the recommendation, which is very nice. That is the answer to the third question: How did the municipality of Puka respond? Puka vald annulled the decision not to recognise the departure of Soontaga village on 17 February and agreed to initiate the procedure so that Soontaga village could be transferred to the municipality of Helme, whose new name is probably Tõrva municipality. On 28 February, the Helme Council, in turn, agreed to the transfer with Soonta. Now it was left to find out the opinion of the people, or Soontaga. This was done on two days, as required by the law. March 10 and 12 were those days. Thirty villagers took part, 26 of them said yes, that they wanted to leave the Puka rural municipality. Today at 3 p.m., the meeting of the council was scheduled to begin at the Puka community building in Soontaga to confirm the results of the survey. I guess we'll soon hear what this meeting ended with. It seems that all possibilities are open so that Soonta can be joined by Helme, the future Tõrva municipality. So things have gone quite well there. The fourth question seeks an assessment of the activities of Ambla, Sauga and Tahkuranna rural municipality in processing or not processing village visits. The situation is that the appeals of Ambla, Sauga and Mikitamäe are still pending. I would therefore not like to make a final assessment at the moment, although our working group is at the end of the work and will soon be able to make these views public. Of course, we will send them to you too, esteemed heirs. If further clarification is needed, we will be happy to give it. The Tahkuranna case was more complicated than the Puka case. The persons who approached us found that the rights of Reiu village and the citizens of Mereküla have been violated and the procedural requirements for the merger of Tahkuranna and Häädemeeste have also been violated. We had to advise these people to go to court quickly (of course we also explained all other options) because in this context it could provide the fastest assistance to them. The Court has mechanisms for suspending proceedings: initial legal protection and several other options. As the law provides, if there is an effective and quick opportunity to protect rights and this is within the reach of a reasonably cost publisher, we also recommend it. Question 5: What are the possibilities for the government to act in the event of confused regulations in order to meet the wishes of local communities? I am not likely to be informed of the wishes and possible differences of opinion of all the villagers. I am not sure that any general recommendation can be made here. I carefully looked at the separate administrative reform page on the Ministry of Finance website. There was a lot of useful material with dates and information to which you can turn, and maps of how mergers have taken place so far, as well as an overview of the voluntary phase and the forced stage. It seems that the heirs are absolutely right: the right of villages to be active in this process has been left behind, or at least not mentioned separately. Once again, even if the people who are working in this field day by day, but are not themselves in the process of developing these regulations, do not know exactly how things should work, or at least cannot say it quickly, clearly and with full certainty, then there may be a problem here. Thank you. I'm trying to answer questions. I see there are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U16	Of these, the first question I mean is posed by Siim Kisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U17	Thank you, manager. Honourable waitress! In general, the local government council is considered to be an expression of local will or decision-making in Estonian law. Previously it has been discussed whether a village can move from one municipality to another. We have over 50 villages with no inhabitants. I can't tell by heart now how many villages have one, two or three inhabitants, but there are many villages with one household. At the same time, this village may have a very large territory in Estonia. Shouldn't there be some kind of limit here? If, for example, only one family lives in the village, but the village covers a lot of square miles, how can this decision be made? Or should there still be some kind of minimum number from which we can talk about the village's declaration of intent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U18	Thank you for your question. The opinion of the people of any village is not automatically binding either on the council or on the Government of the Republic, but this is an important argument that must, of course, be rejected if the wishes of the villagers are not taken into account. The Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory Act lists a number of criteria in section 7 on the basis of which a decision is made to initiate a change of administrative territorial arrangements. It is probably appropriate for villagers who wish to leave one rural municipality and join another rural municipality to explain why, because of these criteria and perhaps some other criteria, they should belong to another rural municipality rather than to where they belong. § 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act applies not only to other matters of local life or local decision-making, but also to changes in borders, i.e. possible departure from the composition of the village rural municipality. This is the institute known as the local public initiative. In other words, the right to initiate legislation is already within: 'At least one per cent of rural municipality or city dwellers with a right to vote, but not less than five rural municipality or city dwellers with a right to take initiatives to adopt, amend or repeal municipal or municipal council or government legislation on local matters which will be discussed within three months at the latest. ' Such an initiative is also possible to change the administrative cohesion of the village. The Council must discuss this and, if there are no good arguments as to why this initiative should be rejected, it is evident that appropriate proposals must also be made to the government. But once again, this was at issue for a moment in connection with the appointment of names to the merging municipalities. Here, too, there is a contradiction in the law: one hand allows local communities, for example, to choose the name of the new municipality themselves in the Accession Treaty, but on the other hand it is said that the government is guided by the opinion of the House Names Council. Maybe this is where the Treaty of Accession or the relationship between these decisions is forgotten.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U19	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U20	Thank you. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your answers and for the work you are doing with these appeals. I have realised that a number of referrals are still pending and are waiting for a more precise answer. I was surprised, however, when Sauga appeared yesterday in "Actual Camera" by the Prime Minister, who expressed himself in a way that the government could not solve these problems in any way now, but that is what will change from 1 January 2018. I didn't quite get it. In my opinion, the Government of the Republic is still in a position to amend the law on administrative reform and to support the initiatives of the Free Party. Do you know what legal environment will change from 1 January 2018? Or will something change after the local elections so that this process can happen more smoothly? I understand that you cannot make a specific recommendation on how anything should be changed, but can this lack of legal clarity, even on the issue of place names, be concluded that changes are needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U21	Thank you! Since the misfortune, complaints and probably also suppressed disappointment are a great deal of fear, on the one hand, that is natural in the course of such reforms, but on the other hand, it seems that this is also due to the lack of clarity of legislation, if the reform should continue, I think that the Riigikogu and the government could consider clarifying these rules. The rules on the local public initiative should certainly be clarified. They could also be formulated so that each person can understand them without much effort. We had a brief discussion with the Sauga question today, but I would not like to say the final position. Probably the Prime Minister, I know he's coming here to see you today, so I suppose he'll explain his views himself more precisely, bearing in mind that there is some contradiction in the law. Under the general arrangements, border changes will be initiated no later than a year before the elections of the Council, but the Administrative Reform Act will have a special regime under which these deadlines will reach considerably later. However, today's Prime Minister's response will also be heard with great interest by me and my ladies and gentlemen and we will take this into account in formulating the final response on the Sauga issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U22	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Chancellor of Justice! I've read correspondence between the Ministry of Finance and village representatives. The Ministry has increasingly started to state that it is not possible for the government to meet the villages in those municipalities where the criterion of 5000 inhabitants has already been met. For example, if there are 5,000 inhabitants in the municipality, 200 people from the neighbouring municipality cannot join the municipality. Does your analysis show what legislation or law enforcement has been sought to rely on here? Honestly, I didn't find it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U23	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U24	Thank you! This statement also surprises me, so I would be very pleased if you could share this correspondence with us, perhaps you can then give a more precise answer. But once again, it is not very good legislative practice if the standards are quite cryptic and they are not fully understood, and the source of wisdom is as if the norm were created. This, I remember, occurred more in the early days of major legal reforms. At that time, some people apparently had the motivation to write down standards as confusingly as possible, so that they could later explain (including the members of the Riigikogu themselves) what the Riigikogu had adopted exactly. I hope that's not the case now. Life has gone on, and I think it's better. But, once again, I would be delighted if I could be part of this correspondence, I suppose it would be possible to comment on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U25	Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U26	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! The emergence of these troubled villages has been due to uncontrolled urban sprawl. The residents of the larger cities have moved beyond the city's borders, and now there is a chance to rejoin as an agrarian city, for example, Sauga and Pärnu. These villages have usually been developed by the municipalities of today, taking out loans to do so. Is it very fair for the rest of the regions, which have been waiting for their "opportunity" and which have now been less developed, if the "better" part of the area goes elsewhere? Who's gonna take the dump after this manless thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U27	Thank you! It seems to me that this issue is directly at the heart of the most difficult issues of administrative reform. There is nothing else to do here, except that the Government of the Republic must take responsibility, as you said, for the rural areas that have been left behind or left empty, to join with someone in a reasonable manner. There has been a repeated discussion with the representatives of the political groups that this is where this complexity arises in the context of the elections. If the municipalities that have been able to conclude accession agreements and agree which schools and posts remain, which developments are preferred and what comes from loans, someone who, frankly, no one has wanted to join, is likely to be opposed by several parties, even by those stronger municipalities. This is an extremely difficult task for the government. I believe that this could also create a number of problems in the context of the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U28	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U29	Thank you. You spoke of taking account of the opinion of the people, although in this context it is unfortunately only indicative. How do you estimate what happened in Saue City? The city of Saue met all the criteria, and in the referendum almost three quarters of the population, namely 72%, opposed accession. Nevertheless, the Council adopted the merger decision. The council hall was locked up during the hearing and people were not allowed in. What is your assessment of this behavior?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U30	Thank you! Our department's work, which is the basis for this inquiry, has not addressed this problem in Saue. But according to your description, this case seems very complicated. If these things were really like that, it's probably a troubled case. Thanks for the five! I believe the authorities will make things clear and answer you. If the heirs are interested, they will be answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U31	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Ülle Madise! I will continue with the theme highlighted by Henn Põllea, but more broadly. These public surveys, which are carried out in the context of administrative reform and the results of which do not really have to be taken into account, are, in a sense, a waste of time or a mockery of the people. These are particularly absurd folk polls that take place in coercive municipalities. Something's wrong here. What do you think is wrong with this, and why do you even need such non-binding polls?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U33	Thank you. I believe that we all agree that Estonia is a democratic rule of law that respects, among other things, the right to self-determination of communities. This means that people must be heard when making decisions. The hearing does not mean that an opinion is given and maintained, but that a substantive opinion is given within a reasonable period of time, which is being processed and taken into account in the decision-making process. It is clear that opinions are often contradictory and not all opinions can be taken into account at the same time, but it is at least consistent with good administration and the rule of law that people need to be explained respectfully and in a way that they understand why they did not find support for or against a decision that was very important. There are two different types of cases in a specific context. One is the local public initiative, which takes place according to § 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act, and the other is the hearing of residents, which is specifically organised in the course of the administrative reform. Hearing is mandatory according to the Constitution if the municipality is to be joined by another municipality or city. Then the opinion must be heard, but the Government of the Republic will still be the decision maker. However, if the residents are clearly and arguments against incorporation, this is one of the arguments on the basis of which the order for compulsory incorporation adopted by the Government of the Republic can be challenged. At the moment, there is little confusion as to whether this regulation, by which the municipalities are coerced, is such that the own-initiative supervision of the Chancellor of Justice is also allowed. We rely on this type of regulation. This is what Professor Jüri Põld said at the end of December, and I think he is right. But there are other approaches. In short, we'll keep an eye on this. In this context too, the Constitution does not provide specific opportunities for villages, so that villages have so far relied on the possibility of a public initiative under the Local Government Organisation Act. Is it possible to better organise the questioning and hearing of opinions? Probably is. There have been very many cases where very few people have participated in the process of expressing opinions. It would probably be worth a separate study of why this is so. However, experience in other countries has often shown that this is what happens when people feel that there is no point in participating, because either the question is not important or there is nothing to do with expressing an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U34	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! I'll come to that 1%. Local residents will be able to initiate drafts once they have collected the votes of 1% of the population. The question specifically concerns the Sauga case. I'm in real trouble answering people from Pärnumaa. Does the local council, then, have the right not to put the popular initiative on the council agenda and to say that it is simply not being dealt with? What's the simple answer here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U36	Thank you for your question. According to § 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act, such an initiative must be taken into consideration. This should be discussed within three months at the latest. Paragraph 2 specifies this rule. Moreover, as has been mentioned before, the representative of the initiators must be invited to the debate on this point. The final answer to the Sauga question is being prepared, so at this point or, to be exact, the decimal point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U37	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! 27 villages in Meremäe rural municipality want to cross Vastseliina rural municipality. The Council has decided that they agree. First of all, does the government need a vastseliina vallavolikogu to decide? Secondly, are there any other arguments on which the government can rely if it refuses to support such a transition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U39	Thank you! Unfortunately, this case has not been dealt with before either, but you can delve into it on your reference, and after that you will be able to respond to them if others have an interest. The general arrangement is that if a village wishes to move from one municipality to another, the consent of both councils is required and the papers are sent jointly to the executive. The mayor has a role to play in the meantime, and eventually the Government of the Republic decides. Once again, argumentation is very important. But thank you for the five! We'll check it out, and if there's anything we can tell, we'll be happy to let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U40	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor, thank you for your substantive answers. The Administrative Reform Act includes a public survey, a public initiative in the Local Government Organisation Act. Is there any difference between these two terms and if so, how big is it? Or if these terms overlap in law, why are they called separately? Could you explain a little bit the difference between these two concepts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U42	Thank you very much. The difference is that, in one case, people themselves will initiate some sort of debate in the council. At present, there is no law on the road from there to either a referendum or a popular poll. In the second case, the municipality itself initiates a survey, specifically in the context of the administrative reform, to determine the opinion of the residents, either on the merger of rural municipalities or on the change of boundaries, i.e. on the transfer of a village or part of the territory to another rural municipality. It's like it's happening from top to bottom, in the first case it was from bottom to top. Ideally, if Estonia wants to move forward like this, it is possible to combine these things, clarify and clarify this process and use more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U43	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice! My question comes from one of your answers. I myself believe that the criterion could have been more than 5,000 inhabitants, but the Supreme Court has recognised that the criterion of 5000 residents and the coercion are compatible with the Constitution. In one response a little while ago, you said that you were planning and that you were also entitled to initiate constitutional supervision of the coercion. I, who supported your desire for legal clarity on Thursday, now want legal clarity: what exactly does this mean in the situation where the Supreme Court has declared this matter constitutionally compatible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U45	Thank you! The Supreme Court specifically assessed the compatibility of the contested rules of the Administrative Reform Act with the Constitution and found them constitutional, with the exception of one nuance concerning the coverage of the merger costs in the state budget, more specifically, the limit set for it. This was about the extent to which the argumentated opinion of the local population could ultimately affect the coercion. In view of the current practice of administrative courts and the Supreme Court, and taking into account the theory of law, it has become apparent that if people are presenting weighty rations in the current context, these are, above all, the arguments listed in subsection 7 (5) of the Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory Act, they must be taken into account. Perhaps when taking a forced merger decision, where local residents have the opinion that the decision to be taken has a negative impact on, for example, the educational situation in the region, the functioning of the single service area or the demographic situation, it is very important to argue very well why the public interest objectives outweigh the objections of the residents. I referred here to the fact that the Government of the Republic must argue very carefully, and I pointed out that, above all, the municipalities that have already agreed to accession may not necessarily agree with the fact that someone who has not participated in the negotiations will be admitted to them under compulsion. We hope that this will not be the case, because the fewer disputes there are and the clearer the situation there will be against local elections, the better. However, it is also the task of the Chancellor of Justice to be ready on July 15th and beyond when these complaints may arise. But thank you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U46	Thank you too, Chancellor of Justice. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U47	Good vice chairman! Thank you for the answers to the Chancellor of Justice. As you've heard, the questions are really in the air. In my opinion, the only solution is for the government to send very clear messages. Right now, it's all been very spiny. The time for voluntary accession is over; now it is the government that has a major role to play in decision-making and has the right to do so. In my opinion, the government has the right and competence to shape the practice of how it reaches one decision or another, how much and who it listens to and what arguments it takes into account. At the moment, the government has rather remained bureaucratic and technocratic in that, if it is not written differently, they will not do otherwise. I do not think that this is a wholesome solution. We must bear in mind that the administrative reform, as such, is not a project that will take place until 1 January 2018, but a long-term process that will hopefully last decades. The villages that have submitted their visits to the councils have not resorted to any defiance of one ruler or another, but to what are traditional parish boundaries and what are the attraction centres, where the children there go to school and kindergarten, where there are people's jobs, etc. I would like to point out here where this technocratic and bureaucratic correspondence has been reached. The question I asked was that the villages in the rural municipality of Vara Maarja-Magdaleena have a desire to join the rural municipality of Tartu. Priidu Ristkok, Head of the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance and Chairman of the South-Estonian Regional Commission, has claimed that the Government has the right to initiate the process of transferring part of the territory under the Administrative Reform Act only if, apart from the fact that there is a citizens' initiative, the transfer is capable of fulfilling the minimum size criterion of the municipality. I tried to think and find out where that argument came from, but I haven't really been able to figure it out. I will also give you an example of the municipality of Ambla. At least the administrative reform was clear to the local government leaders at the end of 2015. On this basis, local communities began to identify their own options. For example, the same residents of Ambla Municipality began collecting signatures in February to join the municipality of Tapa. The municipality of Tapa belongs to the former Ambla parish. The distance is 15 to 18 kilometres, and Tapa is a natural living - organizing attraction for these people. At the beginning of May and at the end of April, a proposal or draft was submitted to the councils on the basis of the Act on the organisation of local government in the form of a public initiative. But the rulers knew that from 1 July there would be an administrative reform law that would introduce a new concept, namely a survey. It's a little bit of a bardak. I was wondering why the legislator would even know the difference between a popular initiative and a public survey when people's will comes out of both. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U48	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U49	In order for both options to exist, the Free Party Group has proposed an amendment to the Administrative Reform Act. Hence the next question, a political one. The Free Party Group has tabled various amendments which would give the government a more flexible opportunity to find a more reasonable solution. Jüri Adams presented here last week the topic of the differences in population criteria. The Commission has not yet discussed it and the subject of the same survey and public initiative in the villages has not yet reached the Chamber. I think both should be seen as the effort and will of the villages. These initiatives could also be taken by the government itself. Why isn't it wanted to be? Last week was village and parish day. It was then asked how strong our municipality was after the administrative reform. I bring out two issues. Firstly, our municipalities are just as strong as we dare to admit that mistakes have been made during the administrative reform, and we are ready to correct them. But these mistakes can also be prevented by the current law, and that is what we are looking forward to. Secondly, after the administrative reform, municipalities are as strong as their communities are. Perhaps when the role of villages in larger municipalities is increasing, people need to be motivated to stay in their own homes. If we do not give this motivation and give these people credit, even through the same self-determination, then villages and rural areas in general will run out of people. We fight that question every day anyway. My request and desire for coalition is this: please let us not create additional frustration, please let us not leave people alone with these prayers! It really is a vital question that can link people to their homes for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U50	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We have answered the first question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U51	The second question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild on the granting of exceptions to the transition of Russian schools to Estonian-language learning. On behalf of the heirs, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U52	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party has submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, regarding the reversal of Estonian-language learning in Russian schools. We have noticed the systematic reduction and reduction in the use of Estonian in our society in recent times as a major concern. Let us begin with the earlier things: the waiver of the requirement to have a better knowledge of the Estonian language of taxi drivers, the authorisation of foreign language administration in courts and even in the legal system, etc. The government's promise to reduce the volume of Estonian-language education in Russian-speaking schools has now come. All this despite the fact that § 6 of the Constitution states that the official language of the Republic of Estonia is Estonian, and the failure to understand the Estonian language will certainly have a paralyzing effect on the integration process. All the more so as it turns out from the perspective of other countries that it is elementary in France, Germany, the USA, Canada and elsewhere that education in public schools is provided only and exclusively in the national language. Because of these worrying tendencies, we have questions for the Minister of Education as to why these exceptions are allowed. Exceptions put those schools in an unequal position where such derogations are not granted and who properly comply with the law. Isn't this about smearing honey on the voters of the Central Party? As we know, most of the voters of the Centre Party are Russian. The Estonian-language learning system in Russian schools (60%: 40%) is fully operational and it is also successful when you look at the results of Russian-language schools. This has had a positive impact and increased cooperation between teachers, students and parents. It is quite clear that this has produced results. A large number of school principals and teachers have also repeatedly made statements and made requests to prevent this system from being reversed. This withdrawal from the requirement of Estonian language reminds of the return to the Russian days of Elsa Grechkina. Our group is hoping for exhaustive answers to its questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U53	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. I also have a proposal and a request to the Minister to read out specific questions. We have now heard an overview of these three questions, but hopefully we will be followed by many people who may not all have the opportunity to see these written questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good questioners! It is a pleasure to have the same subject again in front of you a few weeks later. Of course, I have to be narcissistic about the probability that nothing has changed in these few weeks. So I believe that we can save each other just as comprehensive a debate as was at the time. Today, I will try to present the facts that should help to clarify something. First of all, you have asked: "Why have you decided to allow exceptions to some Russian schools and to reduce the volume of transition to Estonian-language learning on the basis of these requests? ' The simplest and shortest answer is that no, we have not decided to make exceptions. Despite the passing of almost a month, no specific facts have been received by the Government of the Republic or the Ministry of Education and Research. No school or Tallinn or any other local government council has discussed this issue, nor has it provided us with any additional information on the subject. Just as I told you a few weeks ago, the topic of upper secondary school education in Estonian, 60%: 40%, has been a long discussion in very different configurations of the Riigikogu. I'm going to say preconceivedly, even though this is the subject of the next question about the creation of state secondary schools, that today the last county, Saaremaa, also got its own agreement. We can now say that the whole picture of upper secondary school, including Tallinn, is changing. While the whole issue of language learning at upper secondary school was still a significant second issue in primary school, it is still linked to the responsibilities of the state and local government, this responsibility is clearly transferred to the state together with state secondary schools. There is no question here either, because state secondary schools are not even listed in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act at 60% of the system: 40%, but there is a presumption that most of the studies in Estonian are held in state secondary schools. Of course, as Jõhvi's example shows, Russian-speaking children are also given the opportunity to gradually adapt to Estonian-language materials and acquire the necessary vocabulary. However, the main emphasis is that after graduating from upper secondary school, young people will be able to continue to study in Estonian or work in a position requiring Estonian language. So first of all, no, we haven't made such an exception. Second, the signal is the same as it was a few weeks ago. If the Government of the Republic should start discussing such an application, which has been discussed very much in the media, then we will only do so on the condition that there is a transition to a strengthened Estonian language learning and we will indeed have confidence that the level of knowledge of the Estonian language of students will be higher than at the beginning of this project. As I told you a few weeks ago, we have analyzed at the Ministry of Education and Science what should be the necessary steps. This means that at least twice a year there will be a measurement of children's language levels and, of course, there will also be a very clear mutual consideration and introduction of language learning. As you heard in the previous round of inquiries, the Ministry of Education and Research, in turn, has committed itself to developing a C1 language exam for schools. At present, this does not exist because the C1 exam only takes into account the level of graduates. That's all the information I can give you to answer the first question. The second question: 'By allowing exceptions, other schools that properly comply with the law are placed in an unequal position. How do you justify unequal treatment? " First of all, I'm talking about an unequal situation. Talking about inequality in the education system means a long philosophical debate where you can go to the level of a school of convergence. I think I will spare you today, although we could discuss this at length. For example, for years there has been a separate financing system in language immersion schools and bilingual schools in several regions have received 30% additional funding. So if you are asking about inequality or equality, it must be said that, financially, we have tried to fund more Estonian language learning at national level, for example, in several regions in Ida-Virumaa, in Sillamäe and Narva. Since the beginning of the 1990s, there have been various measures to provide additional funding for language learning. These have been euro measures and programmes funded by Estonia's own taxpayer. A similar system, programme schools, can be pointed out, who want to take language learning from B2 to C1 by way of illustration. Here, additional resources have been common practice. In the draft national budget strategy, which you will be dealing with here very soon, we have provided for additional resources over several years to bring language learning from level B2 to level C1. Whether this additional funding will only be available to schools participating in this programme, or to all schools wishing to raise the level of language learning, these issues will be resolved by agreement. The contract can be concluded between the local government and the state. Today, however, I am not yet in a position to say how many municipalities are joining this programme and what exactly are the terms of the contract. No requests have been received and no further information has been received. The third question: 'The majority of the supporters of the Environment Party are made up of Russian voters. Will their liking outweigh the interests of the Republic of Estonia and the values established by the Constitution? ' I will answer this question first: no party represented in the Riigikogu can deal with anything that is contrary to the interests and constitution of the Estonian state. I hope that all political parties who oppose the interests of the Estonian state or the Constitution will be banned in Estonia and cannot exist. In this sense, it is easy to answer that question. Are the majority of our voters made up of Russian voters? Unfortunately, I have to rephrase: most Russian voters support the Centre Party, but most voters are not Russians. So much for clarification. But now I'm talking about the Constitution. Of course, not only must the members of the party follow the Constitution, but all the citizens of the Republic of Estonia and people resident here must do so, not to mention the Minister of Education and Research. There is no question here; we certainly do not oppose the Constitution or the interests of the Estonian state in language policy either. On this subject, I can speak more substantially in response to the next question today when we are discussing language policy in a more technical and substantive way. But I can tell you that the Ministry of Education and Research takes language policy very seriously. Surely everyone who is familiar with this issue knows that language policy has been one of the priorities in terms of both sector and funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U55	Lauri Luik will put the first oral question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U56	Thank you. Good minister! When the principle of transition to Estonian education was taken years ago, the aims were also very clearly understood. One of the main objectives, in my opinion at least, is that people who speak Russian as a native language can at least succeed in Estonia as well as people who speak Estonian as a native language. But from the mouth of your party associates, it has been constantly said (at least there is such an image left) that we make exceptions, think and don't rush, etc. What is your party's position as to why this transition to education in Estonian is necessary at all? What's the purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U57	Thank you. First of all, what is the purpose of knowledge of the national language? This is so that all people living in the country can communicate with each other. Of course, with regard to the future of young people and children, it is important that they be able to further study and participate in the labour market. It is a shared responsibility of all of us to the young people who are graduating. Today, according to the law, if they have graduated from an Estonian-language school or (as is now stated in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act) an Estonian-language school, where part of the study is also in Russian, they are considered to be all taught in Estonian. In fact, they are no longer required to take a language examination; this is only necessary if other problems arise as a result of the language law. So in this sense, there is no question of objectives. But I believe that this debate, which has been held here for about 15 years in the same saalisk, has gone over the wording, about how someone has understood this transition: whether communities have understood it exactly as the good questioner put it, that it is designed to enable people to integrate and have better opportunities, or whether they have tried to signal it as an obligation. I believe that this communication problem was perhaps the greatest in the early years. When we look at studies on integration, we see that the national language is viewed better than the idea of integration. A good questioner said that knowledge of the national language is one of the best measures to integrate. I think this is the place that these communities understand differently. I am not based on my own opinion here, because universities have done very good analysis. After all, the annual integration discussions here have shown the same for many years that language learning is better viewed when it does not mean that people want to integrate through this language, because the word 'integration' is interpreted in very different ways. Maybe that's why it's been the biggest debate. But as I said here a few weeks ago, I am still sticking to the view that language and learning are almost always viewed positively. There are some minor exceptions and there are some generational problems, but in general, the attitude of young people towards the Estonian official language as such has become positive over the years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U58	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You said that nothing new has happened since you answered the previous analogous question, but still. I checked the verbogram last time. At the time, I asked about the leaders of two Russian schools in Tallinn who did not speak at all about raising the language level in their public performances, but admitted that the problem is simply that they are more comfortable and have difficulty finding teachers who speak Estonian. You responded in such a way that you have not met the representatives of Tallinn Education Department and have not been able to speak to them. Now, I assume you've been able to talk to them and you can explain it. Did you also convince Sergei Garanža, who is the leader of the Lyceum of Linnamäe, to give interviews in Estonian, which he has so far refused? Allegedly, he speaks Estonian, but simply refuses to give interviews in that language.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U60	Thank you for your question. Yes, I have had two meetings with the city of Tallinn and the heads of the education department during this time. On both occasions, we discussed a number of issues, ranging from the same possible appeals at the level of the councils of care to the issue of children with special needs to be discussed in the Committee on Culture and in the Committee on Social Affairs, which may have taken even more time. As far as I know, this school manager also visited the Language Inspectorate today and gave explanations. The Ministry of Education and I, too, yes, I have not spoken personally to the head of the school, but I have spoken to the representatives of the city, I have considered it more appropriate to see it as an absolute inevitability, that it is basically the choice of whether the head of school is going to pay substantial attention to the Estonian language and raise its language level quickly or whether the local government must draw the relevant conclusions. This situation is certainly not acceptable. The city representatives took note of this and said that substantive discussions would take place on the subject. I cannot tell you what the head of the school has been like today, but I know that there was quite a long conversation today at the Language Inspectorate on the same subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U61	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You've been in this office for the right number of times. Maybe you're getting a little bit of antagonism. How many more generations do you think it will take before we can stop dealing with issues in the Riigikogu or in newspapers that concern this education in schools and perhaps the same topic as the director? How much longer are we going to talk about paying more attention? These are, in fact, the old problems, the problem of school leaders in the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U63	It was such a wide question, a good questioner, that I could start talking to you about the competence of the school leaders and everything in general. But I'm going to the generations. Education, on the one hand, is not conservative and changes are taking place there persistently. But if you look at the changes in the last 20 years, perhaps even 15 years, I believe that there is no doubt about the rise in the level of proficiency in Estonian in this Chamber. This change has been quite rapid. There have been plenty of discussions over these weeks on the subject of some representatives of the Reform Party, including the former Minister of Multisectoral Affairs, that we should actually pay more attention to kindergarten. This is not a new issue either. Twenty years ago, there was a serious debate about whether kindergartens should not only be in national languages. In that sense, it's a pretty old subject. The situation is that, from kindergarten to kindergarten, this is the reason why I am talking about generations is the easiest to start with, in principle, the President is right. If you ask my opinion, I will say that the most real way forward (this is faster than what we have been doing for the past 20 years) is if we make both kindergartens and primary schools bilingual, as it already is in very many regions. I do not mean the kind of flying ideas that we could hear from some of your group members last time, such as bilingualism means that we are obliged to speak Russian in Estonian schools. Far from it. Are we ready for this in society? The decision on kindergartens must be made at the local government level. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act also says only that the decision on basic school is made by the local community and the local council. Of course, it's possible to change the law, and it's in your hands in this room. But if you look at these two aspects, I believe that the fastest change is, however, if we ensure bilingualism in Russian-speaking schools and kindergartens, where the additional support of the state is provided by an Estonian and Russian-speaking teacher in the group. What does that mean in kindergarten? Take, for example, the Republic of Finland, where there is a school with co-education in Estonian. There's two teachers in class. If you are addressed to a Finnish-language teacher, you will be spoken in Finnish; you will be addressed to an Estonian-language teacher. It is good that if the Estonian child is not well integrated in Finland at the beginning, he can speak more with the Estonian teacher, but if he is later ready to communicate more, he will communicate with the teachers in parallel and use both languages. But the skills of both languages must be strengthened so that families who do not put their children in a purely Estonian-language school would have been willing to put children in that school. This transition is more necessary in Estonia in those families where the background is not strong enough to put the child immediately into an Estonian-language school or kindergarten. I gave you the percentages last time, I can repeat them. One in four children in Russian is already attending a kindergarten or school in Estonian and this trend is growing every year. There will be more children every year, especially in Tallinn or in another region where you can choose between two languages of instruction. In any case, this is a positive change. How many generations does it take? Life has shown that a very big change has taken place in two generations. I believe that because of one generation we are even surprised how quickly these things have gone, because now children are born to parents born and raised in free Estonia. So the attitude has definitely changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U64	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U65	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'm gonna go back to kindergarten. Thank you for giving me a little light on your views. But in recent times, several Russian-language intellectuals have proposed to stop public funding for Russian-language kindergartens. State is the whole public sector here. You spoke of this bilingual option. But isn't there a risk that those, say, children of weaker origin and those who are less integrated will still be in trouble? How long, then, will we not take responsibility for these children as a country? Why do we not allow all children to learn Estonian from a kindergarten that is more natural and easier to learn? How do you feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U66	Thank you for your clarification. Indeed, the state does not directly fund the kindergarten as such, either through the teacher's salary or through other things. This is therefore the decision of the local taxpayer. Now we are coming back to this rhetoric that the legislator's only opportunity to intervene there is indeed to ban Russian-speaking kindergartens. As you know very well, there has been a long debate in the Committee on Culture on kindergarten, on which the subject was that there should be no major obstacles to ownership at all. A very big debate has taken place on childcare and private day care. I don't like bans and punishments like that very much. Where possible, the education system should be influenced by positive examples and promotions or by additional funding. If we ban Russian-language kindergartens and all kindergartens must work in Estonian, then it must also be taken into account that this has been a local government level so far, and it must be said that the state has not done enough work here and has not come to help. When we look, say, for ten years, we see that there have been dozens and dozens of visits to the registers of the Riigikogu from local governments who have been concerned that they will not find teachers of Estonian at kindergarten. There is no such national programme that we teach Estonian from the age of three, but we do not have such programs other than immersion. So we have to admit that the state has not come to the aid of the local government. Are we ready to say that in Narva, for example, all kindergartens should work in Estonian? I fear that we also need to find local teachers in addition to the state gymnasium, who we need to motivate to go to work in the area, either temporarily or for longer. On the spot, we can't find that much frame. To say that we are ready to turn all kindergartens into Estonian in a campaign, it would mean a great deal of work for the country. This can certainly not be done by the local authority alone. However, in kindergarten, education in the Estonian language should be brought to such a level that it is not a separate education, but a kindergarten, as I have pointed out, is a playful activity that takes place in the group all the time. My offer remains that, at least in Ida-Viru County, results could be seen in two or three years' time. Speaking of bans, I believe that the legislator may consider this, but I fear that if we are going to bans, we certainly need to know what the national measures by which we are actually ensuring that these teachers are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U67	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U68	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. 1 March Estonian Express has a long and broad discussion of the large Russian school planned for Lasnamäe. You mentioned that you have twice met the city and educational leaders of Tallinn, your party associates. Has there been any mention of this big Russian school planned for Lasnamägi during these meetings? Has anything been agreed and whether and how do they expect state support? A separate question is that there are already six Russian-speaking schools and two Estonian-speaking schools in the Lasnamäe district of Tallinn, and a Russian-language school is created after the closure of one Estonian-language school. How do you feel about that? All of this does not talk about the fact that we are moving so successfully towards the introduction of education in Estonian. I would be very grateful if you would be as specific as possible when you answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U69	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, the specialists in the education department I met after the deputy mayor are certainly not all part of the party. I hope that such a signal has never been signaled. So at the meeting there were still very many specialists who knew the content of the field on both sides of the table. These were certainly not just political meetings. As far as the organisation of the school network is concerned, you asked for specific answers, such reorganisations, when schools are closed, are being converted into larger or smaller ones, are taking place all over Estonia very much. I will, of course, try to keep up with all this, but as a minister, it would be totally inappropriate for me to start interfering with it, except when the euro measures are asked for, where we have to count square meters and say whether the renovation of one school or another has been considered in one way or the other. As far as I know, yes, indeed there are a number of school restructurings taking place in Tallinn as well, quite a number of them are extremely emotional. You mentioned, for example, that, as you know, it is at the expense of education in Estonian at Lasnamägi. You probably know that for about three years in Tallinn, the media have said that this is at the expense of the quality of education in Russian for the entire school network of Lasnamäe. So this opinion depends on the reader and the viewer. What are the exact numbers? The number of children in Tallinn varies greatly from border to border. Mustamäe, Õismäe, Lasnamäe, these remote areas are losing significant numbers of students, and schools are either losing parallel classes or questioning the existence of the whole school. Certain regions, Pirita, Kadriorg, downtown and also Nõmme, have been the ones that have gained more students, especially many students have been added to the city centre, where basically children could be put into school on a number of shifts. There are different reasons for this. The organisation of the school network is required from the local authorities by the state. We also have similar expectations for Tallinn to take a serious look at its school network. We at the Ministry of Education have gotten an oral overview of this. There will certainly be documents in which the same Lasnamäe reorganisations or the Gustav Adolf Gymnasium have been identified as part of a large part of the organisation of the school network, during which part of the schools will be closed, but some will be assembled and renovated. Do I have an opinion on how the school network is linguistically distributed in Tallinn? It is likely to be very clearly related to the interest of the students. Do I have any questions about the quality of education in Lasnamäe schools? Yes, the Ministry of Education deals with such analyses all the time, analyzes the results of PISA tests, proficiency tests and state examinations. You certainly know that digital literacy and digital security were studied quite recently. It also turned out that in city-based schools, not only in Tallinn, but also in other cities, there are bigger problems than in county centres and smaller schools. So, yeah, it's being dealt with all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U70	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U71	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. We didn't get an answer to the previous question. Did the city or the Ministry of Education promise money for this mammoth school? We couldn't find out what was really going on at your meeting with the city leaders about this school. However, we learned that the Centre Party is not leading Tallinn, but at least in educational matters, Tallinn is being run by some nameless officials. This is probably also the case at national level. Unfortunately, I can't miss the fact that a month ago you got caught talking and clearly lying about interviews with Sputnik. That is my conclusion: you really shouldn't be on the remote right now, because a lying person cannot be a minister. We have doubts as to whether your answers are really honest. Now I'm gonna ask you with the hope of getting an honest answer. Do you completely rule out Russian-speaking classes coming into Estonian state secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U72	I understand that with your question, you first made an assessment of yourself. What am I to rule out now? Are Russian students also able to study in state secondary schools? In Jõhvi, Russian children have this opportunity and some subjects are taught there in Russian, but they will receive more than half of their education in Estonian, certainly boldly over half. If you haven't been to Jõhvi yet, I suggest you go to Jõhvi, you'll get an accurate overview. A similar curriculum structure is planned for Kohtla-Järve Upper Secondary School, which will start working in two years. Just as it was planned in Narva. If you look at the big picture, yes, students who have graduated from Estonian-language comprehensive school, bilingual basic school, language immersion comprehensive school or any other school using a method are welcome to state secondary schools, where, proportionally, more students are taught in Estonian, as well as children who have studied in a regular compulsory program in a comprehensive school where most of the subjects have been taught in Russian. All these children are welcome to state secondary school. Of course, this is a difficult task. State secondary schools are quite large, sometimes with several hundred students, and if, for example, a large proportion of 500 students have come from Russian-speaking schools, it is quite difficult to quickly bring students' knowledge of the language to the required level. But if you go to some pedagogy, you can say it means making study groups. At present, language assessment is individual and in upper secondary schools a large number of level groups are used in basic subjects. The choice of a level group may depend on the language the young person can speak, but this may mean that the student's knowledge of the subject is so good that he can work quite quickly, in about three months' time, also in Estonian. So different methodologies are used. I had to think about the first part of your question, whether there was some kind of additional funding for local authorities. Members of the Riigikogu may not be familiar with the details. Yes, there is a comprehensive school measure, but Tallinn has not asked for money there, nor has there been any discussion about it. No other additional funding for renovation of schools is available to the Ministry of Education and Research. There are measures to set up state secondary schools and reduce basic school spaces and organise the school network. The third measure is intended for children with special needs. None of the three has anything to do with the renovation of this lyceum in Lasnamägi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U73	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U74	Thank you. Estonia has been independent for 26 years. I do not understand at all why education in a foreign language should be given in public schools, why it does not only take place in Estonian, or in the national language. You said that you have so far not made any exceptions, which mean retreating from education in Estonian, but you are prepared to do so. At the same time, you mentioned a number of options for giving additional funding to language learning, which you have considered. It's very positive. You also listed a number of ideas on how language skills could be improved. Against this background, it is still completely unclear why you are prepared to reverse this system, why such exceptions should be considered at all and, if there are requests, allow them to do so. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U75	Thank you. Perhaps a little help is that more than five years ago another coalition seriously discussed exceptions and then decided to allow an exception for adult upper secondary schools. Why do I give you this example? Maybe it'll help you a little. At that time, it was the subject of an adult upper secondary school student when they were born. The Government of the Republic had a number of arguments on the basis of which it was considered that such a transitional period was important. Such discussions have been held in the Government of the Republic. You may also be helped by the fact that this exception was also created in the process of processing the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, because it was found that, for example, such cases should be taken into account when an adult upper secondary school or, for example, a vocational school and upper secondary school are put together. At the level of the Government of the Republic, it has been decided that this was done when the coalition was only established, that the basic school and upper secondary school law would not be amended and the withdrawal from the principle of 60%: 40% would not take place. On the contrary, it was said that any changes in language policy are excluded, unless we want to improve the knowledge of the national language.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U76	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Today, too, there have been several mention of the teaching profession. After all, teaching each subject, including teaching the language, begins with teaching the teacher. We have discussed here before that one of the problems of Russian schools is precisely the frame of teachers. Now there are competence centres for teacher training. Has the Ministry of Education and Research ordered anything from these centres of competence for this purpose or what it expects from them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U78	Thank you for a good question. The Ministry of Education and Research, of course, deals with education in a much wider way, not just with the topic of Russian and Estonian. Perhaps one of the biggest issues is what we will discuss tomorrow in the Riigikogu at large. In fact, the greatest expectation is that we will see the individuality of each child and be able to respond to it. This individuality may also come from a language or family, rather than from other things. Special educational needs, special talent, individual approach to such children, awareness of the need for support and understanding, this has perhaps also been the teachers' greatest expectation. Another point that international studies have highlighted in terms of quality and competence is that our teachers, perhaps because of our national characteristics, are still very poor at sharing their best knowledge. The aim of the competence centres is to strengthen both subject and interdisciplinary knowledge and general competences, but also to make teams more supportive of each other and to strengthen mentoring, which has produced very good results, and to use it more. If you go to a Russian-speaking school one more time, you have to say that, as our analyses show, this kind of privacy is, unfortunately, even greater. It is important to involve and support each other through further training and development. These are certainly key words for us to support teachers' competence in the broadest sense, but also self-esteem. Of course, competence begins because there is a skill in self-analysis and self-development, the ability to ask and communicate, and the ability to do teamwork and all other things. The knowledge and skills of subjects and interdisciplinary skills are important in refresher training and, of course, all that concerns the specific characteristics of children and teamwork.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U79	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U80	Madam Secretary! I think you're always sincere when you say things you're gonna deny afterwards. This also applies to the exceptions with which you categorized the support of the Russian auditorium, the votes of voters and the satisfaction of some Russian school leaders. They think the exceptions are coming. What else prevented you from figuring out what these pilot projects were going to be? The Department of Education still doesn't know that. Why couldn't you say there are no exceptions, and why don't you start talking about these high-level pilot projects when you have an idea of what these things are? Why couldn't you do it this way? Then we shouldn't be talking here tonight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U81	Thank you. I don't mind having this conversation. This is one of the rules of procedure of the Riigikogu, which allows us to have a conversation with each other. Of course, I do not mind if you call me a group either. But in essence, I will say again what I said several weeks ago and what I said today. No applications have been received by the Ministry of Education and Research. I have also said in advance that when these applications come, the Government of the Republic will not look favorably at applications that apply for a waiver from education in Estonian, reducing its volume, etc. In order to avoid any speculation, we have proposed, let's say, a requirement that if someone wants to change these percentages in accordance with the basic school and upper secondary school law and move forward in their own rhythm, then we are willing to consider it only if it increases the level of language skills. The second fundamental issue you asked about is whether the Ministry of Education and Research is aware of it. Yes, from the outset, the Vice Chancellors, the General Education Department, as well as those involved in preparing the exams in Innoves have been involved in this process. I am certainly not in a position to say, for Innove's people today, how they will build up the language exams. But this information that, in any case, needs to be converted to the C1 exam in order to adapt it to the comprehensive school and upper secondary school curriculum has come from Innoves. So I'm sure the specialists are up to speed on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U82	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U83	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In your answers, you stated that a major problem was with teachers who would be willing to teach Russian children, and this is where the country must definitely come to help. What are the national measures that I'm sure you're up to? I understand you're still having this discussion. Have you set priorities for those who urgently need help? Do you have more or less these plans and what they are?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U84	Thank you. I'm sure the Ministry of Education didn't start this work from the moment the new government started working. These are quite long processes. If we look at the money available for continuing training, it is no secret that the European taxpayer has come here to help us. We have a number of continuing teacher training programmes for all teachers or teachers working in Russian-speaking schools. They are organized through Innove and Our People implementation units. First of all, there is a need to strengthen the language skills of existing teachers, but there is also a need to improve their knowledge of the subject. Separate programmes lasting four years are designed to raise the language level. First of all, the level of teachers is assessed. The objective is, of course, a level of C1 due to the law, i.e. a high level. Teachers have different language levels, but it must be said that C1 is not. This level is individual, because perhaps the teacher needs to supplement only the terminology of the subject; his overall language skills are quite good. This is the first thing that is being done: raising the language level of existing teachers. Another thing the Ministry of Education and Research is working with universities is that we have tried to direct as many young people as possible into teaching. This too has been the case for ten years and with quite varying success. For a few years, these figures are better, for a few years, they are always above the news threshold, perhaps close to zero. The Ministry of Education has also tried to support very different programs of the University of Tartu Narva College. The third issue is kindergartens. I would be a little more careful before I dare say that we would be ready for this change, because, yes, the teachers of Estonian at kindergartens have not been so clearly focused. If you ask where additional attention is needed, say it is in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U85	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U86	Thank you. Good minister! For several years, at least in the last two years, we, too, have repeatedly heard complaints from a good colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, about the government's lack of teaching tools to improve Estonian language learning in Russian-speaking schools. There is not enough investment in the educational resources to enable the school to teach the Estonian language better. Now the party of a good colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, is known to be the leading party of the government and the party of the Prime Minister, and they also hold the portfolio of the Minister of Education and Research. What have been the steps taken since last November when the new government was formed to improve the availability and quality of these teaching tools? What is the strategic deadline for a Russian-language school to be so well equipped with educational resources that it can switch from 100% to Estonian-language education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U87	Thank you, good questioner! Mr Stalnukhin's constructive criticisms and proposals are the same. He is still making quite close proposals to the Minister for Education and Research and to the Ministry as to what the next steps might be. In the Ministry of Education and Research, we have first learned a picture of ourselves, from two aspects. Firstly, we have made clear what the existing teaching tools are, the ones printed on paper. Secondly, the Ministry of Education and Research has created a comprehensive picture of the electronic teaching tools available over the past year, with the help of a number of ministers in the field. In both cases the aim has been to fill gaps. As you probably know, the Ministry of Education and Research has taken the course to cover all subjects and age groups by electronic means. This is done for two purposes. First, all teachers can use free-of-charge e-assets, wherever they teach, either in Estonia or outside Estonia. Secondly, the e-warehouse is ancillary material and if it is built interactively, it can be used to teach different target groups. What has been the criticism? Apart from Mr Stalnukhin, criticism has also been made more widely that young people should have better opportunities to acquire vocabulary. This work has been done very strongly by the immersion classes, but it needs to be done more widely. When a young person changes the language of instruction, acquiring a basic vocabulary is key. Vocabulary enhancements have been carried out through a wide range of very, very thorough programmes in different fields. Some subjects are more covered with them, some less. What are the objectives of the learning tools? The Ministry of Education and Research acts on the basis of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. I also brought it out a few weeks ago in this Chamber to make sure that the Committee on Culture and the Riigikogu have a broader view of whether the legal base prescribed for the curriculum is sufficiently justified. As the questioner may know, the development of educational resources is now a market economy, the exact educational resources you want will be created. The national regulation here is rather superficial and, like, sidelined. It is possible that we should come back to the fact that the state, associations and specialists have a greater say. What is the deadline? The development of one textbook lasts at least seven to ten months. When speaking about digital resources, less ambitious people have said that the programme will be created within three years. So if you ask me, by the time of the next question, in three weeks or months, or whenever we talk here again, new textbooks have come up, I'll tell you that I'm sure not. The textbooks of highly experienced textbook makers also need to be tested and analyzed, subject sections familiar with them. As a minimum, it will take a year to develop a new learning tool if there is no existing one that can be completed and updated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U88	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U89	Thank you! Good minister! I have a brief question: when do you think Estonia will reach the point that we have one general education school in Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U90	One general school of general education is not at all possible when looking at existing laws, because we are also allowed to have private education in any other language. There are four language schools in Estonia. Moreover, the European school has its own system at all. If you ask if it is possible for most children to study in Estonian, I will answer yes. But it is certainly not possible that we do not have a school in English or Finnish. As you know, there are other national minorities in Estonia who want to create their own schools and more and more at general education level. If the Riigikogu should ever discuss that such a great freedom of private schools in choosing the language of instruction is not good, then it is different. But right now, private schools can work exactly in the language they have chosen. However, there are curriculum and national language teaching requirements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U91	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U92	Thank you, Mr President. It would not be necessary for most students to study in a language other than Estonian in Estonia! But I would point out that in answering this question, as well as many of the previous questions, you took the opportunity to leave the substance unanswered. You're also distracted by the fact that no one has filed a statement. I am now quoting from the Postman of 6 February, where you said that the government will probably make an exception for the Russian schools in Tallinn in teaching the Estonian language, and you have agreed in principle that if such a request were to come, the government will grant it this time. Then there's a lot of talk about how it's all been agreed in the coalition. The same is confirmed by Mikhail Kõlvart. My question is very specific: in your opinion, how can a reduction in teaching the Estonian language raise the level of language skills, just as you have had this rhetoric?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U93	Thank you. I have not received any statements; they have not been received either by the Ministry of Education or by the Government of the Republic. If the Postman has received an application, he will certainly print it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U94	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I want to know how many Estonian lessons per week, for example, are in schools with Russian language of instruction, and to compare how many Estonian lessons are in Estonian schools. Can't one of the reasons for bad language skills be that there are simply not enough Estonian language lessons? Perhaps, on account of another subject or program, the number of Estonian lessons should be increased so that children in primary schools in particular can learn Estonian more quickly. It is not enough if they study certain subjects in Estonian, they should have more purely Estonian lessons.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U96	Thank you, good questioner! I don't want to be wrong, so I'll check the curriculum and then I'll give you the exact answer. Currently, education in Estonian as a national language is compulsory in primary school starting from the first grade. A-foreign language education, if it does not take place every day, takes place four times a week. But I'm going to say again that I don't want to be wrong, so I'm definitely going to be more specific about it. Do we have a concern that it is difficult to find time in Russian-language schools to teach Estonian? When we look at the results of the PISA tests, we can see that the knowledge of natural subjects among students of Russian-speaking schools is almost a year behind the knowledge of students of Estonian-speaking schools. The representatives of the schools have pointed out that this is the time devoted to studying the Estonian language. It's been a debate. The real situation is that there is probably a lot of substance feeling. But I'd be happy to send you exact figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U97	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U98	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I'm going to continue with the question of Tavi Clothes, or I'm going to go over it. Has the government agreed in principle that if you receive a request for an exemption, you will grant it, as you were quoted a month ago in Postimees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U99	Thank you. The Government of the Republic has not yet had to discuss this issue. However, when the coalition negotiations took place, we naturally touched on this issue too, because we had to agree on this in advance. That's when two things were agreed. Firstly, there is no 60% system: 40% and no language laws are opened and maintained in the existing provisions. Secondly, when these applications are examined, the exemption is granted only if it does not reduce the knowledge of the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U100	Thank you. No further questions. Let's get to the negotiations. Mr Stalnukhin wishes to speak. Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U101	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, My colleague, Henn Põljaas, asked the Minister a very cool question. It deserves me to answer it. I've got the introductory part right here. History is the case of Aristotle's fly. To those who have not heard of it, I say that this highly respected and authoritative ancient Greek scientist wrote in one of his books, where he described all sorts of cockroaches, flies, and other insects that the fly has eight paws. Well, the wrong person, god, could happen to anyone. But the point is, in the Middle Ages, during the scholastic era, Aristotle was very authoritative. They all had to question 'How many paws is a fly? ' answer that eight. Although everyone could, as much as they wanted, see for themselves how many paws a fly has. Clearly, that conviction was completely wrong. We have this exact Aristotle fly complex when discussing this subject. I was in this hall when suddenly the idea came up that we should do something to the Russian school that we should switch to the Estonian language. Then a wise woman, whose name I don't even want to remember, proposed this 60%: 40% system. Asking why 60 and 40 was completely pointless because they were just beautiful figures, that's all they had. Then the question arose: if there were 50%: 50%, wouldn't the school be either Russian or Estonian. It was just quiet. How do we calculate this 60%? Are we taking 60% of the list of substances or 60% of the lessons? It wasn't even thought through then, but this system was introduced. Then came a happy moment when the Centre Party was with the Reform Party in the government. It was then reviewed for the first time how the Estonian language has actually been taught in the Republic of Estonia for ten years. It turned out there were no learning tools. It turned out that children's knowledge does not meet any standard and that no one deals with teachers; they are simply required to do so, but no one provides them with methodology or educational resources. Then the amendment of the PGS was adopted, which established that the transition to Estonian-language education will begin when three conditions are met: children have a certain level of proficiency in the Estonian language, which required that Estonian language be taught from kindergarten, that teachers are prepared and that these teachers have a good and effective weapon, such as methodology, textbooks and tools at all. They didn't talk about electronic tools yet. It took a while for that government to shut down pretty quickly and a second one came. Two or three years later, it turned out no one wanted to do anything. No one wants to deal with educational resources. I checked them out a few or three years ago, and it turned out nothing had changed. Nobody deals with methodology. But we just put it in the law, and when the transition period ended, it started to be demanded by 60%. That's the story, that's how it was. Now this is the question where we see progress here. Personally, I see no progress in what has been happening in the last quarter of the century. But why are we definitely holding on to one dead end, why aren't we trying something else? Then the idea of this number came up, I know it stands before me, that 1365 subjects are only taught Estonian. I'm sure you could learn any language in that time, actually, the world's practice shows that it takes a lot less language lessons. It's not about the number of hours, you can double it, you can put 3,000 hours in it. For God's sake, if there is no methodology, if there are no teaching tools, what are we talking about? I support the Minister's idea. We talked about this in November and December. In the very schools you are currently experiencing heartache, the main objective is to develop a methodology. Why don't you trust the Estonian language teachers, why don't you trust the Estonian education system? You absolutely don't. These people are supposed to be good at something. These schools and their pilot projects will develop textbooks. Three months after the coalition was created, it's fucking funny to ask what kind of textbooks you've done. Are you out of your mind? What can we talk about three months later?! But these projects can guarantee all schools with the right methodology in two or three years. Then there will be no more of this problem, especially if we start language training in parallel in kindergarten. There has been speculation on what the government wants. The government wants that if nothing has been done as well as nothing has been done in the last quarter of the century, except that people have been required to accomplish an unattainable goal, something practical has indeed been done. I'm telling you, this situation is very weepy. In fact, nothing changes. I could tell you here what the situation is with textbooks and glossaries. Recently, I looked at Russian textbooks for Estonians. There is no one that can be recommended, and absolutely no one that can help a person learn the language on his own, i.e. where he would have been given explanations and could understand them. I don't know which ministry, whether the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Education and Research or the Ministry of the Interior will have to act here, but we need to radically change this system. The state must take control of all the parts of the learning process that may depend on it: developing and making available methodologies, textbooks and dictionaries. So far, unfortunately, nothing has changed. Henn, you asked why 26 years. Because it has mostly been handled by very shallow people, politicians, among whom there have been no qualified linguists. They just haven't asked linguists for advice. So what do you want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U102	Next, please speak to Henn Põllea!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U103	I have to agree with my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, in many ways. 26 years after regaining independence, nothing has really been done for 26 years. We do not have proper Estonian textbooks or workbooks for Russian children. I know that Mr Stalnukhin himself has drawn up several of them. They're great, but unfortunately, they're still in his drawer because no one's been interested in them. In fact, 26 years have allowed Estonian language space to decrease and Russian language space to grow. If we look at all these decisions made over the years, though the dilution of the language law, the dilution of the citizenship law, etc., it turns out that this is the case: little of the fact that nothing good has been done for 26 years, much worse than the fact that very much evil has actually been done. Mikhail said this has been discussed here before. It's always stuck somewhere. Where? Whose furry and evil hand? We can all ask that, we can all see that. But today we are in a situation where at least a little bit has been done, one step has already been taken, and at least this 40%: 60% distribution has been introduced. We expect the government to take steps to expand and improve the learning of Estonian language. We cannot allow the government not to take a step forward, but to take a step backwards and further reduce the importance of the Estonian language. Estonian language education should start in kindergarten and should start in school from the first classes. We should not talk about any percentage at all. When we talk about percentages, we should not talk about this 60% coming back, but we should talk about taking a step forward and reaching 80%, and maybe in three or four years, we should talk about 100%. We are one of the smallest nations in the world with its own country. The task of this country is to ensure the preservation of the Estonian people, Estonian language and Estonian culture. If we don't do it ourselves, nobody does it, we don't even dream about it. We will simply melt and blur away among the billions and billions of people living in the world and among the great people who live behind our eastern borders and support their fellow nations here, finance their cultural activities, education and everything. This is not the task and responsibility of the Estonian people, as 900000 people cannot be worried about the preservation of more than 100 million people, their culture and their language. No such thing will be done by the larger nations, as I have repeatedly mentioned here. In any other country, public education is provided only in the national language and if people of other nationalities who wish to live in that country want their children to receive education in their native language and want to develop their own culture, it is, of course, possible, but it is financed by them themselves. So there's no excuse here for us trying to do something or thinking about something. We need to act, not exorcise the bubbles, as has been done for 26 years, and that is why we have not reached anywhere. Of course, from whom else to demand it than from the government. The government is obliged to comply with the Constitution, the oath that all the members of the government have given, and the will of the people, because without the Estonian language, this country will no longer have any meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U104	Next, please speak to Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As I said in my question, I believe that Mailis Reps is completely sincere when he claims things that he will later deny. He's been consistent with it. He has also promised exceptions to upper secondary schools in Russian, making changes to this policy. Of course, he promised it, he promised it from the heart, Mikhail Kõlvart promised it and already allowed the leaders of Russian schools. The Russian media have embraced this idea. Mailis Reps is completely sincere and consistent even when he does not answer questions. Taavi Kõivas specifically quoted his words about Postimees, which were published at the beginning of February. The Postimees said that when such applications come, they have agreed to make these exceptions for Russian upper secondary schools. In answer, he started talking about what he didn't know. He took the story to the woods first, and then he said that if the Postimees had come with requests for exemption, he should send them to him too. Was that an answer? When Maris Lauri asked when a school system was coming, in Estonian, he started talking about private schools. The right to open and maintain private schools is enshrined in the Constitution and Maris Lauri did not ask about it. It is not appropriate or appropriate to play with such a tender subject in the Riigikogu. We have a relatively accepted social agreement that there will be a transition to education in Estonian. This has been happening too slowly all along. The Centre Party has always worked hard to slow down this pace. Out of the great willingness to compromise, which was rather a disservice to the Russians, Estonian-language education was started at the gymnasium. But still something's fixed. And then there will be a new government, an IRL and a Central Party government, let alone a socialist government, and says that there will now be exceptions. For what? Studies show that the ability to speak Estonian equates the opportunities of people on the labour market. All other claims are malicious, the ability to make a breakthrough depends directly on the ability to speak Estonian, even more than some points on the final exam. Breaking such a social agreement, rather than overconfirming it, is irresponsible. There is no point in bringing about a discussion about teaching tools and other technical matters or saying that nothing has been done for 25 years. What do we do with the fact that nothing has been done? Yeah, it's done. We are not really teachers here for our basic work, although some have pedagogical backgrounds, some have worked even longer as teachers, some have just practiced, as is the speaker here, but this is not what we should discuss. We should be discussing that there is a political agreement and that should not have been called into question. I should've started with that. They started by allowing exceptions, and then they started to think that they were some kind of pilot project. But the experts at the Ministry of Education didn't know anything about these pilot projects until the Minister of Education started to spin around them. However, I would ask you to answer the questions in essence, and I would ask you not to play with this delicate issue, which should not start to divide society again, but to join society. The effort should be made to ensure that schools switch to one of the Estonian-speaking systems, should not give the opposite signals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U106	Mart Helme next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U107	President-in-Office of the Council. Madam Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, we have excellent dictionaries from Soviet times: Estonian-Russian dictionaries, Russian-Estonian dictionaries, conversational dictionaries. These languages have not changed so much in the last 25 to 26 years that they cannot be used. So it is somewhat hypocritical to say that there is no method, no textbooks, no dictionaries, no help! It's all hypocritical, it's not true. Yeah, they'd need an upgrade, yeah, they could be more, yeah, they could also be digital, but basically that's not the question. We all, without exception, all of us in this Chamber know what the real question is. In fact, the question is that one ethnic group simply stubbornly does not want to learn the language of the people here and does not want to be forced into it. As early as the 1980s, Estonia's political landscape created a deep divide: certain politicians and political forces were in favour of transforming the Estonian SSR into a so-called third republic; others were in favour of restoring Estonia's national continuity. That rift still stands today. This is reflected, among other things, in education policy and in the fact that one party makes a very clear contribution to the same electraat that does not want to learn the Estonian language. We're told from this remote that no applications have come. Don't worry, they'll come, either for the next academic year or for the next academic year. Presents will be presented before the elections, there is no doubt about that. In this case, churches have been built on Lasnamägi and other steps have been taken. They're probably going to step on it now. Basically, this party will continue to pursue the same policy it has shown over the last 25 years. In this context, regardless of all respect, all sympathy for the Minister must be said that I simply do not believe him. I don't believe his answers, I don't believe in his sincerity when he denies what's literally black in white. I mean the quote in the Postman. With fish eyes, he says, "I didn't say, and I don't know what you're talking about. " With fish eyes, he says that the interviews given to Sputnik as if they weren't. You know, my mother, by the way, she was Russian, I can't even tell you how many percent she liked to use this Russian expression: 'And ne and i lošad ne moja. " The Gypsy who was caught stealing a horse said, "And ne and i loshad ne moja. " (I am not me, and the horse is not mine.) Now that's exactly what we heard today about this speaker: I'm not me and the horse is not mine, and you've completely misunderstood something at all, we're not really doing any bows towards the Russian electra, and if you get it like that, then you're totally misunderstood, actually things are what we're saying from this speaker. I'm sorry, but I just don't believe those answers in my chair! Believe me, the lie has short legs and these lies will come out before the next local elections and before the next Riigikogu elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U108	Next, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U109	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! The Estonian language is our official language and we have a social agreement, as Jürgen Ligi rightly said, that our schools are in Estonian. There's no double-thinking around here. Such very wrong signals should not be given by any minister, even less by the Minister of Education and Science. But I do not want to agree in any way either, as if nothing had been done in 26 years. How we have been able to teach the Estonian language and do it through the cultural space has depended and will continue to depend primarily on how well we all comply with this social agreement. Blaming or pointing fingers at one or the other side will certainly not help. What helps is known and known from the days of Jakob Hurt. The greatest benefit is the appreciation, appreciation and speaking of the proper Estonian language. The Ministry of Education and Research urgently needs to resolve the issue of teachers. This would certainly help not to create such jumbles that are kept on scrolling. For too long, the problems with continuing training and self-consciousness and self-confidence of teachers working in Russian schools have remained unresolved. They have not been able to feel the fortress for years, teaching in Russian school and teaching there in Estonian. There are things that none of us should joke about or talk about. I have a huge request to the Minister for Education and Science that these disturbing signals, which could lead to one, another or third questioning, should not be passed on to society. It does nothing good for the status of the Estonian language, and it does nothing for the cohesion of society as a whole. These people belong here in Estonia, they have a home here, and the Estonian language must become their own language. This requires a very positive and warm attitude, starting from how the Estonian language was honored in very gray and ancient times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U110	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We're done answering another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U111	Members of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi, Yoko Alender, Ants Laaneots, Deniss Boroditš, Jüri Jaanson, Lauri Luik, Kalle Laanet, Urmas Kruuse, Valdo Randpere, Igor Gräzin, Hanno Pevkur, Liina Kersna, Maris Lauri and Heidy Purga have submitted the third question. The question is about the school network. On behalf of the heirs, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U112	Mr Riigikogu and Mr President. We hope that this question will do better and that we will receive not only direct but also reassuring answers. Mailis Reps and the new government have given a lot of signals that call into question the entire resource and quality policy of school education. In essence, it is permissible to start to give priority to small secondary schools. Projects for the development of state secondary schools based on studies to date have been called into question. There is hope that state secondary schools will be handed over to municipalities instead. All these promises have been made personally by Mailis Reps. This contradicts everything that has been done for many years, which has been done too slowly rather than too quickly. There is no substantive argument to reverse all this, apart from the fact that this government is turning things back. But today it is also nearly EUR 240 million, depending on whether the school network is being organised or not. For the Minister of Education to know that not only the basic school measure, but also the state secondary school measure, will be financed from the European budget, provided that the school space is reduced and resources are used more for the quality and content of education. That's what we've been doing. This is also what we have written in the laws, for example a political compromise has been reached that state gymnasiums come to every county. We have done this with a great deal of compromise with the local authorities, but then there will be a government that will say from day to day that we will do the opposite. The country no longer has a policy, as they say it is. No one understands the question of local governments, whose interests are often quite different, which is the general project for which this money goes and for which this money does not go. I would like to stress that this has not been a project of any kind that is made up in a party working group somewhere. This is what the Ministry of Education has done under the direction of several party ministers. The ministers of the three parties have supported it, and this new turn-back is very strange. The specific questions to which I would like a substantive answer this time are as follows: One: 'How do you plan to proceed with the development of a network of state secondary schools? ' We mean not the general talk or talk about the Estonian forest, but we are interested in what you are trying to turn back and why. If you don't, that's fine. Secondly, are you planning to give state secondary schools to local government administration? If so, for what purpose? Would such a change contribute to raising the level of upper secondary school education? " I would point out that the long - grown education law provides for the transfer of responsibility to the state. The Chancellor of Justice considers it necessary to consider transferring all responsibility for education to the state, as municipalities are unable to guarantee a uniform level of education. By his definition, it is a national standard and the reverse would certainly have the opposite result. Third: Do you think that vocational and upper secondary school education should in future fall within the administration of the state or local authorities? ' This question coincides with the point of the previous question. Fourthly, how do your views respond to the conditions of the investments allocated to the organisation of the school network, which have been agreed with the European Commission? ' Fifth: 'How does the state budget strategy guarantee that the salaries of teachers will be raised to 120%, which the previous government planned under the condition of a school network? ' I would stress that this 120% would have been a fixed and important part of the country's fiscal strategy this spring, based on structural savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U113	Thank you. The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! It's exciting to listen to people on one side and on the other side of this remote control. I had the honour and the accident to listen for two years to Jürgen Ligi when he was Minister of Education, and I remember well his answers. Now the chairs and tables have turned, and it's quite exciting to remember the old days, but I guess they're written on the pages of history. Your first question: 'How do you plan to proceed with the development of a network of state secondary schools? ' The development of a network of state secondary schools is agreed to by the action plan until 2023 such that there must be at least one state secondary school in each county first. This commitment has been assumed by the State and is the basis for it. In 2018, or the next academic year, state secondary schools in Paide, Raplas and Viimsi will be completed, in 2019 they will be added to Kohtla-Järve, and in accordance with the agreements concluded, all other partners will also proceed. Today, all counties are covered by agreements. This morning, Saare County joined these plans because the Council of Kuressaare decided to take further steps. It can therefore be said that with the move towards the development of state secondary schools and the full overview of the state secondary school network, things are quite in place. There may have been the most questions in Harjumaa, since there have been the most applications here. As a good hall certainly knows, because the press has adequately reflected it, the Viimsi state gymnasium is being formed. Let me make a little bit of a point here. Although the measure requires a reduction in the number of square metres, the questioner certainly knows that this is not the case in Harjumaa, because in Viimsi we will not reduce the number of square metres, but increase and increase it vigorously. The reason Viimsi was likely added to these schools was a little different. In the case of both Viimsi and Tabasalu, it was the idea that these are rapidly growing regions, and the state is coming here to help with its investment plan. The basic school measure could not be mentioned at the beginning, as it was the creation of state secondary schools. There have been disputes in Saue municipality due to the merger between Saue municipality and Saue city. Further steps towards the establishment of state secondary schools depend on budgetary possibilities. You may not know this very precisely, but we will distribute less than EUR 100 million with this measure. The Ministry of Education and Research will certainly not be able to commit to the creation of the next state secondary schools until we have seen project-oriented prices. As people who are familiar with the construction sector certainly know, prices have increased lately. We certainly do not withdraw from the obligation that every county, usually in the county centre, has a state gymnasium. In the next few months, we will review the potential price calculations of Rakvere and Kuressaare. Then we will know how much resources there are left in the measure, and we will be able to say whether the following upper secondary schools could be added to the network of state secondary schools. However, there is a great deal of interest. The second question: 'Do you intend to give state secondary schools to local government administration? If so, for what purpose? Would such a change contribute to raising the level of upper secondary school education? " There have been many discussions over the years around the establishment of state secondary schools. Talking about political consensus is perhaps a little overrated, there certainly was no political consensus here, neither was there on the ground. It was discussed whether the state was better owned than the local government, and the opinions were quite different. Today, it is clear that secondary, vocational and upper secondary education could be held by one owner. According to the reform programme developed by the Minister for Public Administration, one of the proposals that was made to the ministers in the field was to review the priorities in the field in order to determine what could be transferred to the local government as part of the administrative reform. One of the proposals was to consider transferring upper secondary and vocational education to the local government at some point. The Ministry of Education and Research replied that any discussion on the development of the competence of local government is welcome, but until 2021 and, in fact, until 2022 and 2023, until we just organize the school network, we are certainly not prepared to make such changes. If the next Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic decide that the school network is organized enough and the local government, as the person responsible for secondary education, would be a better choice here for some reason, then the Ministry of Education and Research is prepared to continue the analysis. But in the meantime, as the school network clears up, we're not going to make that kind of change. As regards whether the better owner is a state or a local government, I believe that it is possible to debate here, but both previous and certainly future governments agree that it is only worth doing administrative reform if the local authority is given more substantive competence. All discussions on responsibility in education, which is part of the local government and which is part of the national level, are welcome. But once again I say that neither vocational education nor upper secondary school education are we giving up today, but we are just cleaning up the school network. The third question: "Do you think that vocational and upper secondary school education should in future fall within the administration of the state or local authorities? ' I already told you that when I answered the previous question. I would like to reiterate that there must certainly be no deterioration in quality due to any major changes. It should also be taken into account that some vocational schools are covered by the state, but they are located in quite small municipalities, even after the administrative reform. So the options are both that and that. The municipality has vocational education in Tartu today, but at the same time it is dependent on almost 100% of state funding. So there are these forms, too, but yes, it would probably be better if the owners were on the same level. The proposal that came from the Minister for Public Administration was also mentioned at the meeting with employers, and the attitude of employers was also rather cautious. As we know, there are models in the Nordic countries where VET and upper secondary education are held by local governments. So these are possible, I would not rule out one or the other, but certainly these changes should not be made in the middle of the process. So I'm sure not today. Question 4: 'How do your views respond to the conditions of the investments allocated to the organisation of the school network agreed with the European Commission? ' I don't know what kind of perspective we're talking about. If you are referring to the organisation of the school network and the establishment of state secondary schools or the HEV measure, of course, all these decisions in the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as the Minister, have been made in accordance with the European Commission, both in terms of agreed targets and conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U115	You have questions. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U116	Thank you. Dear Minister, Actually, what's on either side of the remote shouldn't have an argument. The argument should be whether the minister burns the passion to prove his truth or whether he tries to talk about the subject. I mentioned, among other things, the priority funding for small secondary schools and the fact that you have expressed different views on the location of state secondary schools than those based on research. But I am asking specifically the example of Paide. I know that the choice of a building for state secondary school instead of a vocational school building for restoration makes this project more expensive and a half times more expensive, and it is also very likely that the continuation of vocational education in Paide will be in doubt. Why was it necessary to banish in front of local interest groups, actually make state secondary school a restoration project and abandon the synergies between vocational education and upper secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U117	Thank you, good questioner! Cooperation between vocational education and upper secondary school education is an issue where, I believe, we need to be more proactive. Despite one owner, there has been no such strong synergy between vocational education and upper secondary school education over these years as we were first told in this Chamber. But when we look at where the state secondary schools are and how the communities have received them, we see that they are in Valga, Võru and Põlva, or now in Kuressaare or Rakvere, where the questioner's party associates have discussed the matter at length. The community must actually adopt the state gymnasium. The fact that such fundamental changes are being made to the school network must be accepted on the spot. So it is not surprising that if the political groups of Paide City Council were to have the right to believe anything, all the political groups had to ask the Ministry of Education to review the location of the upper secondary school to be created. Very good if you have different data. As far as I know, there's not going to be a one-and-a-half increase in real estate prices today. I guess, good Jürgen Ligi, you have some more accurate data than I've gotten from the Ministry of Education. I know that there are still detailed discussions on what additional conditions are there and what heritage protection restrictions, if any, are. As far as the retention of vocational education in Paide is concerned, you probably have some information that the public does not know. As far as I know, the Järvamaa Vocational Education Centre is very viable, and it has been joined quite recently by the Põltsamaa Vocational School. There's no question today that it's going to disappear. Vocational education is on the price in Järvamaa and it will certainly continue to be so. The establishment of a state secondary school has taken place everywhere, as the community has wished, and so it is in Paide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U118	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I still have a little problem. How can we be sure of your claims that the creation of state secondary schools will proceed as has been so-called widely agreed when you give hesitating answers in this Chamber? What I mean is that you are talking about such a deadline that until 2021-2022 or some kind of new government. I think these are vague and unclear signals that state secondary schools do not expect. The second thing that raises my doubts is the principle of your government, that is, this 'open coalition agreement', which has its virtues, but we have felt the disadvantages more than the virtues. Maybe we don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow, and we don't know what's gonna happen the day after tomorrow, because everything can change. That is why I ask this question: do you also intend to change the principles of financing state secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U120	I assume you are most familiar with what is happening in Pärnu. I will give you this signal once again that, as we have said, until 2021 to 2023 if we develop the measure of state secondary schools and the school network in cooperation with local communities, we will not see the possibility of a change. But let's take the example of Pärnu. Pärnu today has a very viable vocational education centre and has a very good state secondary school. It does not, of course, have as long a history as the State Gymnasium of Sturdy or Viljandi, for example. But when you look at the figures, you can see that there's already a five-to-six-year schedule. In the example of Viljandi, we see that in five to six years he will become a powerful and successful centre of competence in the community. You consider this to be a hesitation when the Minister says today that, in six years' time, for example, we will be ready to use the Nordic model and the ownership circle would be a county-based self-governing association or, for example, it would be possible to form a Suur-Pärnu. I dare not rule out today that Pärnu, for example, does not find the same thing at one point. In his speech, the president said that the state should be the ruler of this degree. I have been to Finland and analysed their system very thoroughly. They have vocational education, training for the unemployed and further training at local government level. Both incubation centres and the same secondary level are in the hands of municipalities in Finland. They have taken a very regional approach to all of this, but of course there is clearly public funding there. I dare not tell you today that in six years' time, for example, in Pärnu County, it will not be found to be the right model. Maybe, but today, yes, it's not coming yet, we're not handing them over to the local authorities today. This could happen after, for example, five or six years, when administrative units have become independent and strong and are indeed as large as expected today, and they have a desire and competence. It's not like I'm giving you conflicting signals. If we look at the essence, we see that neither one model nor the other model is excluded. Both models are possible, but all of this must definitely be done evenly across Estonia, not in such a way that one place is the same and another place is different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U121	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! Is the VET network also planned to be reviewed and organized? In particular, I stress here the idea of the people of vocational schools that the basic technical equipment of these schools is quite good at the moment, but it is ageing. Would it be possible, or even worthwhile, to start thinking, in cooperation with companies, about designing common centres that companies can use for manufacturing activities and schools as a training base and a place to study?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U123	Thank you, good questioner! The Committee on Culture has taken note of this substance today and it can be said that the substantive technical basis for vocational education is currently very good. In vocational education, the pay of masters is a problem. The level of pay for teachers of general subjects is also largely guaranteed in vocational education, but finding professionals is a problem. With regard to the changes in vocational education and training, there have been two major shifts in recent years. Firstly, there has been a great deal of adult education. The share of adults in vocational education and training has increased today, at times more than a third of them in schools. On the positive side, it has improved the image of vocational education. Often because his father is studying at that school, his sons or the children of his brothers and sisters have also come there. But, to say the least, we must point out that we do not have, for example, a depreciation component in vocational education, which means that continuous additional investment is difficult, to put it mildly. Today, professional schools are saved by the fact that they themselves earn income, doing so very forcefully, and by that they themselves improve their chances. The second shift, which has taken place, goes at least partly under the direction that the good questioner asked about, is apprenticeship training. There are more and more areas where students go to apprenticeship training immediately. Schools here have been more and more active. This year, in some cases, one in four students is an apprentice, in other words, he actually works at the workplace; he basically studies at school for a number of cycles, but he actually gets much of his training at the workplace. If you ask what the future will be, I think there will certainly be more such forms of learning, such as apprenticeships, whether a little longer or shorter. At present, apprenticeship training is mainly based on European money and programmes, but we are determined in the Ministry of Education that if, for example, something changes in funding so that we cannot go on sustainably, we must certainly not lose apprenticeship training from the education system. Thirdly, we can highlight the pain or the issue of how more of today's unemployment fund measures can be introduced into vocational education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U124	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U125	Thank you. I think you mentioned the location of a state gymnasium is Saue. But it's more complicated than that. Correct me if I was wrong. Really, yes, there are two Sauet cities and Saue parishes and both wish for upper secondary school. The municipality has essentially grown together with the city of Tallinn. Vald wants to build a secondary school in the Camp, but building a school there would not solve the problems of surrounding municipalities or the whole county. Saue has one of the best upper secondary schools in Estonia, there is a place where the building of this state gymnasium can be built, there is a very professional teacher frame, children from surrounding municipalities go to school there, school buses drive. So logistics and logic and all the arguments support the construction of Saue city or now, after accession, right near it. What is the position of the Ministry of Education and what are your preferences on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U126	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sorry, but I'm referring to a couple of other counties once. Lääne-Virumaa and, for a very long time, Saaremaa could not agree in their community whether and where to make the state gymnasium. Then they always dreamed that there would be a clear signal from the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately or fortunately, the Ministry of Education has taken the view from the outset that it has its own criteria, for example, by the time the state gymnasium is opened, the municipality must give up the upper secondary school in its school. Perhaps all of this must take place gradually and calmly. There are certain criteria, reviewed birth rate and school network, analysed volumes and asked for objective assessments. These are the criteria. But whether the state gymnasium comes from Saue parish or the city, if the city of Saue finally decides something about its gymnasium and what preferences are there, the Ministry of Education and Research has not yet taken a stand. Today, I asked the ministry specialists over. It is still the view that Saue has to make its own decisions. As you probably know, a proposal has been made at the level of the municipality to the Ministry of Education, a similar proposal has come from the city of Saue, but a signal came from Saue that they are not prepared to consider closing their secondary school. Therefore, the Ministry of Education is currently on hold. Creating an upper secondary school in this area would make sense. But yes, we're standing by. I'm sure we don't want to put pressure on the community. Having observed these discussions, I can say that they have been quite controversial there. So we're on hold and can wait until the second half of 2018. As I said, our first duty is to create a gymnasium in every county. We have set very many restrictions as criteria. As you know, this has been a question of sports equipment, for example, which has been the responsibility of the local government. However, this is a rather costly project. All the schools in the county centres, which have so far been open, have become more expensive than the first estimates. We certainly don't want to give up schools in Kuressaare, Rakvere or Kohtla-Järve or in Narva in the future, just like schools in Viimsi and Raplas. These agreements, which have already been concluded by the State, must be fulfilled. These upper secondary school buildings, which are already being designed today or for which procurement has been announced, must be completed. This is also the signal I have given to those schools that have applied and are waiting for an answer. Let's wait for the financial assessments and see how much resources we have. But Saue has another reason: there is no local community that has decided exactly where this school should be built.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U127	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U128	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, As you certainly know very well, in a number of European countries, such as the Netherlands and Germany, children are already pretty early divided into three or more categories on the basis of the results of national tests. In most cases, the most capable children go to an academic upper secondary school, in the second category there are more average children, and then there are some other children who are immediately placed in a vocational school. We have started to develop a strong network of academic upper secondary schools. Indeed, these schools provide a very good education. In addition, there is a network of vocational schools. It is already evident that several young people are falling out of state high school because they cannot withstand the great tension there. Right now, their only option is to go to a vocational school, and so-called high schools are still there. But if there are no more secondary schools in the future, where do you think these children should go to continue their education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U129	Thank you, good questioner! We will definitely come back to this issue during the autumn season, perhaps even before the summer bill starts, or at least we will be able to discuss it. This idea is not new; it has been thought by people in education and research for quite some time. About 400 young people are not learning any further. If you add to them those who drop out of either VET or upper secondary school within the first three months, you have to talk about the exact statistics of the 1500-2000 young people. So we do have youths who have either chosen the wrong specialty or overestimated their abilities. Here's what we're suggesting. In two vocational schools, the next academic year will be such a thing as a broad-based vocational school. We've been seriously analyzing that maybe we should make sure every county center has one of these. Thanks to cooperation with employers, the VTA system and the rather clear orientation that we are taking vocational examinations, vocational education and training has become quite detailed. We expect the graduate to be able to take one, another or sometimes a third qualification. We give him as good a competence as possible, and this is what the labour market and the employer have been expecting from us. But there are also young people who have been identified by the questioner, who may not even know which field of work they should prefer, or whose starting position may be a little weaker, they may even have a slower understanding. That is why there is a 'wide year' or a year of orientation in the countries you mentioned, such as the Netherlands. We're gonna start experimenting on it today in Rakvere. Interest has also been shown in Viljandi and the Tallinn Service School has also said that it would be interested to start such broader programmes for young people who would otherwise disappear from this system or who are at risk of being lost. The NEET youth, whom we are now looking for and bringing back the education system with the help of a number of measures with the local authorities, must also be mentioned. The second issue concerns the so-called pipes. Today, in the Estonian education system, we expect children to go to school in their own region for nine years in order to receive basic education. Yes, there have been problems with unfinished primary education. Also in upper secondary schools for adults, groups are opened again and again from 6th and 7th grade onwards. It is as if these people have graduated from primary school, but if they are found in the labour market at one point, if they are either interested in education themselves or, under the pressure of their employer or spouse, either to state secondary school or rather to adult upper secondary school, then their knowledge may be such that we have to open the 6th or 7th grade for them. We would also like to prevent these young adults from leaving school and bring them into vocational education. One option is indeed such a broader education. The idea is that these people learn to navigate in different areas, learn about several disciplines, go to a number of internships and then, in cooperation with supervisors, help them to choose a model that suits them. Of course, our expectation and hope is that this is already being done in primary school. Career counselling in county comprehensive schools is increasingly working better, an important tool. The issue of upper secondary schools for adults has also been in the air for a long time. I will give an example of those people who do not make it to state secondary school today and for some reason do not want to go to vocational school. Very often they go to an adult upper secondary school. There has been quite a lot of criticism, especially from vocational schools and employers, why people are so easily accepted into adult upper secondary schools, let them go and learn the profession instead. But we still haven't had such a thing in the education system that we want to restrict access to adult upper secondary school in any way. This is also why this debate around the threshold has given rise to a great deal of excitement on the ground. Two things need to be mentioned. First of all, we would actually pressure people to end up in adult upper secondary schools. Secondly, it is as if we are giving a signal to vocational education that we do not want to give. These have been the two subjects. But I believe that the subject of the threshold is what will come to the Riigikogu sooner or later, because if we want to orient state secondary schools and even more upper secondary school education towards academics, we should really set some threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U130	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U131	Thank you! Good minister! I'm asking about Tallinn. During the previous government, there was such an idea that two state gymnasiums could come to Tallinn: one on the west end, the other on East Tallinn. Of course, the municipality also has opportunities for discussion, but I can assure you that during my ministry, these things started to move quietly. In addition to these two state secondary schools, the state was planning to support the establishment of a "beautiful arts school," which would combine music secondary schools and other such schools. Now I understand that a state gymnasium is planned in West Tallinn, but the second state gymnasium would be a school of fine arts, and no state gymnasium is planned in East Tallinn, or Lasnamäe. Can you comment on such choices? Why isn't this other school wanted? Or maybe you can convince your partymates that there could still be a proper state gymnasium in Lasnamägi?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U132	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, as regards the number of state secondary schools in Tallinn, neither I nor the Ministry of Education currently have the courage to say how many state secondary schools we are able to propose for Tallinn. I have realized that these thoughts from Harjumaa and Tallinn to Harjumaa were initially planned in six and indeed two to three state secondary schools in Tallinn were perhaps based on such an ideal school network. But we need to look today at the amounts that can actually be put into the establishment of state secondary schools. I told you once, but I repeat, the preference of the Ministry of Education right now is to have a state gymnasium in every county. Kuressaare and Rakvere and places where the establishment of the upper secondary school has either been agreed or already in work, such as Narva, Viimsi and now Tabasalu, have clearly taken the lead in this ranking. In addition, Tallinn is really waiting, where, first of all, there is the question of how many state secondary schools come here and, second, the question of where they come from. I have had, as I said in reply to the previous question, two meetings with representatives of Tallinn. These discussions were very brief about state secondary schools. But speaking from the state's own point of view, I can say that we have proposed a project in the Ministry of Education and Research, with which the good questioner is probably aware, namely that part of the territory of the school of fine arts is carried out together with the state gymnasium. At least the design of such a very original project was inherited by me from the previous period. I suppose it was already proposed in your time. The city has not expressed its position. The plan is that, above, on the Pärnu highway, there would be a school of fine arts and the rear would belong to the state gymnasium. The point is that the entire administration should be shared. The added value would be that the future state gymnasium would have the same side of music, art, dance and recreativity as well as the technical side in TEMT and polytechnics. This whole region can be integrated. In short, the representatives of Tallinn took note of this information and there was no other issue than logistics. They asked if we had thought about how traffic would take place there if we brought together almost 2,000 children. This is a very intensive area of traffic. Speaking of the second school, if there were to be resources for this, but I would stress once again that if there were to be one, I can say that I have discussed in quite a number of meetings with the rector of the Technical University whether the Technical University could be interested in a school with a strong slope of natural sciences and precision in Tallinn. The University of Tartu has developed this very clear direction; it has been in the debate. But once again, we have not taken the next steps yet, we are waiting for the estimates of the cost of Kuressaare, Rakvere and other future state secondary schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U133	One question can be asked in the course of the inquiry. I understand that my colleague Toomas Kivimägi has a procedural question. Please, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U134	That's right! Thank you, Mr President. I do have a procedural question. I am a very new member of the Riigikogu and therefore I do not know how to behave if the minister forgets to answer my question. Can I repeat my question? It was very important. Do we have reason to fear changes in the principles of financing state secondary schools? I understand that one way would be to ask my colleagues for help, but since Igor Gräzin refused to ask this question, I asked a procedural question to find out how I should proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U135	Thank you. The fool's story is that a procedural question is answered by the manager. However, the President does not know at all what the Minister's position on this matter is. But I believe that both the respondent and, of course, the questioner should make sure that there is some connection between the question and the answer. It would certainly be of great benefit to all of us. We hope to find some good colleagues in this hall who are willing to ask Toomas Kivimägi's question again, and the Riigikogu will then also find out what will happen with this funding. I thank you for this procedural question. Lauri Swan next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U136	Good Minister, please answer Mr Thomas's question first. Second of all, why don't you brief us on what the plan is for Rae's state gymnasium? You have mentioned other state secondary schools planned for Harjumaa, but you have not mentioned Raed yet. Is this thought already included in the plans still in force, or are there any changes here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U137	Thank you. If we now go to the procedural question, I must say that since I am the representative of the executive authority today, I do not think I can answer. But I'll tell the good questioner I definitely didn't do it on purpose. There were just a bunch of questions hidden in this one question. To be quite honest, one question should mean one question, but okay. There is no financing change plan. Financing state secondary schools means that the state covers all costs. I must say that this has been a rather difficult task in the negotiations on the state budget. Since I inherited the Ministry of Education and Research from very capable former ministers, I assumed that the state gymnasium measure was included in the state budget strategy. But to my surprise, it turned out that despite even Jürgen Ligi's former job at the Ministry of Finance, it had not been done. So every time a new state gymnasium is established, the Ministry of Education and Research will go back to the Ministry of Finance to inform the Ministry of Finance that a new state gymnasium is now coming and asks if it would be possible to get a letter to the state budget strategy. This was one of my surprises in the state budget negotiations this year, because I thought that if something had been agreed nationally, some costs would automatically become basic costs. It turns out that this is not the case with state secondary schools. But yes, the state has made no difference here. These upper secondary schools, which are already open today, are included in the strategy. This naturally raises a lot of questions in municipal primary schools, starting with funding of educational resources and support services and ending with funding of the same school meals or transport. So, now we've come to your question, and that was...? [[Interjection.]] Oh, Rae, of course. How could I forget about Rae? Rae Parish is standing by. As I said to the representatives of Rae rural municipality in our perhaps a little emotional conversation on the day of rural municipalities and cities, Rae parish is the parish to which I certainly do not say now, because there is a goodwill agreement. But I tried to explain and I will explain again here that, at least until 2018, we will be able to open more state secondary schools today, but the construction prices have gone much more expensive than they were originally planned. Rakvere also has his own hopes and dreams, where and how to build. It is clear that in every region where the state gymnasium is to be established, there is something different and fierce to be done: who wants a self-thinking, self-sustaining house, who wants to restore an architecturally outstanding building, as Kuressaare has offered, something historical. Everyone has their own dreams, and we need to bring together the dream and the reality. Therefore, I do not dare to tell you today whether or not the plans of Rae municipality can be implemented within the framework of these measures. The second part of the comprehensive school measure will open within a few months. Surely we will try to meet as much as possible. In Rae parish, it is not a question of whether or not to set up a state secondary school there today. There is another problem, namely that there are many children and that more school places are needed. I don't know if we can make sure there are tools available for state gymnasiums. Almost all the municipalities in Harjumaa asked for funds from this measure, but initially they did not qualify because additional points are received for reducing the number of square metres. That was at least the explanation that arrived on the Minister's desk. Maybe this time it's possible to look at Raed in a different way. But yes, I dare not say today that they fit into the list of funded dreams. That's not for sure right now, but I'm not ready to say today, go ahead with the design, because there's public money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U138	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. You gave us a very thorough overview of these state secondary schools. But I have a question about administrative reform. What's the plan for the Ministry of Education with the small country schools? Have any plans been made yet? I also mean smaller magymnasiums. What can you tell me about them now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U140	Thank you. That's a good question. The country has so far been based on the fact that state secondary schools and the rest of the school network should be set up until 2020,2023. During the formation of the coalition, we found that we consider strategically important upper secondary schools in rural areas to be right. People of the school network and general education of the Ministry of Education and Research have been analysing the school network together with Praxis for years. They admit that there are areas where there is a need to have a high school within a 50 to 70 km radius. At the same time, we do not want to say that all the upper secondary schools that exist today should continue in the same volume. So your maybe a little too complicated a question I have too simple an answer. The point is that the state chooses partners in every county other than state secondary school, who it also accepts as upper secondary school. The question now is whether the Riigikogu should develop some kind of metrics, whether there is a number of children, less of which the school is not supported. Remember, there were once proposed parallels or certain areas. In this sense, there is nothing new here. The Ministry of Education has had the idea of giving security to a number of upper secondary schools in addition to state secondary schools in county centres. There are certainly no more than two of them in every county besides state gymnasium. What tools do we have for this? It has been agreed today that local authorities who want to hold upper secondary school until 2023 will do so substantially by paying extra. This has led to a paradox that, if, at the time, the quality of education was to be improved by changing the upper secondary school and the entire school network, today, because the state finances the upper secondary school disproportionately less, those communities wishing to continue to maintain the upper secondary school network are paying for it in many respects at the expense of basic school or other things. Jürgen Ligi here at the beginning spoke about the strong additional funding for rural schools. It's not like that. This sentence, which is in the coalition agreement, is that in those magymnasiums that we consider necessary as partners, we are trying to raise, to some extent, this coefficient today, which is very low. The most important idea for this government on the general school network is that we believe that additional money should also be paid by teachers, because only by pulling the school network together and closing the schools, they cannot be raised. More than €70 million has already been agreed for this purpose. If we bring here what concerns children with special needs and other issues that will certainly support communities, as well as the rise in the pay of kindergarten teachers, because there is often a kindergarten and primary school together in rural areas, it can be hoped that at least the initial period of shock of the administrative reform will be calmly survived in education. Only later will the larger administrative units be able to see whether it is possible to maintain near-home schools. I met with representatives of rural schools last week who asked very clearly for the Ministry of Education and Research to redefine funding and coefficients because very small administrative units with very high coefficients are disappearing as a result of the administrative reform. This is certainly what we are prepared to do in the Ministry of Education in cooperation with other ministries, but whether and how much smaller rural schools with key educational coefficients can be saved today, which ultimately depends on the number of children. When we talked a few years ago about 100 children having a proper comprehensive school, today we are glad to have 60 children at school, and in kindergartens and primary schools, 20 children are enough to say that this kindergarten school is good. You have to be careful with the criteria, but with the coefficients, we don't even it up to the end, the number of children has just dropped so much. But we definitely need to make the system more flexible. The third level of basic school is disproportionately less funded today. I believe that funding is perfectly normal up to the seventh grade, but the seventh, eighth and ninth grade is the place where, despite the coefficients, the local government must contribute when the school is very small.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U141	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U142	Thank you, Minister. You said before that you had spoken to the people of Tallinn University to take down some schools in Tallinn. You also said that the University of Tartu has already done so. My question as a Tartian is, of course, a question of curiosity about what kind of school it is and what kind of school it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U143	What area? No, I brought a technical university, for example. There's a school in Mustamägi with which they cooperate and very much. There is, of course, a science school that cooperates with many. But it is no secret that there is a school in Tartu with a very strong cost of science, and it has been constantly highlighted how good cooperation he has with this faculty. This is such a positive example, which Aaviksoo, who knew because of his past, immediately pointed out that such a model worked there. So there was an interest in the technical university, but these have only been such first meetings how much the university would be willing to participate in this cooperation with its best competence. This interest is on both sides. The Ministry of Education also has an interest that if there were sufficient resources, a school providing upper secondary school education could be established in Tallinn near a technical university or in a real campus. The interest of the Ministry here is that we can use the existing laboratories and infrastructure as much as possible and we can cancel specific and expensive additional investments. That too was the point of our meeting. But in Tartu, yes, there was talk about the university's substantive contribution to science and science.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U144	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U145	Good President! Good minister! Although we are talking about the school network today, it seems to me that 75 to 80% of the time we have been talking about state secondary schools. I have also visited some small state gymnasiums myself, such as Hiiumaa, Jõgeva and Viljandi. I've liked 95% of what I've seen. Now, if you think about the idea of state secondary schools and how it all happened in the beginning painfully and later progress has been made step by step, how do you sum up the state secondary schools programme? Can you tell me who it was, who it was, who it was, who it was, and who it is to think of?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U146	Thank you. For the first time, I was discussing state secondary schools at the time, talking about pure upper secondary schools based on two examples: one was the working example, the Treffner Gymnasium, and the other was the example of the county dream, or one of the people currently working in the Ministry of Education, Kalle Küttis' final work in the example of Viljandi county. These were the first examples. I don't dare go too far back in time, but this conversation took place about 20 years ago. So this original idea of pure upper secondary schools and a school network in a different way was derived from it. It was already pointed out at the time that it offers, first, academic choices and, secondly, young people with similar interests who are interested in learning can come together, and it gives them a completely different, start-up approach. An emotionally slightly more complicated topic has been the closure of upper secondary schools. I remember Võru Kreutzwald School as a symbol written in the history of gold stars! These examples are everywhere. It hasn't just gone away in Tartu either. The question arises as to whether teachers who are dealing with olympiads or state exams or are outstanding in the student union will then go to upper secondary schools. So there has been this criticism, especially from a community perspective, that is understandable. Today, let's think about the same Viljandi. No one has any doubt that the upper secondary school has proven itself in Viljandi in terms of quality and content. But if you go to Karksi or Tarvastus or meet people in Suure-Jaani, you'll see that no emotions are lost in the community, they still want to protect their upper secondary school. Despite the fact that there is a state upper secondary school, discussions remain on the need to protect the upper secondary school level in their region. I will take Lääne-Virumaa, for example, where this debate is just beginning. At the meeting with all the representatives of the county municipalities, a postulate was submitted, yes, that we make it to Rakverre, do it excitingly and make it to the Pärt Centre, to have culture and education together in Rakvere, and also bring sports, etc. It was all well thought out. And then you looked at Kadrina's men or women, and then you looked at Vinni's people or someone else, and there was that discussion. Yes, we say that pure upper secondary schools have justified themselves, but the desire of the community to maintain its upper secondary school has not diminished. Today was only the first time Kuressaare was ready to come to the table to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U147	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. I'm opening negotiations and I'm gonna ask Jürgen Ligi to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U148	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I believe it was in 2006, when the Minister of Education of that time shouted, I dare say so, that the lack of vocational education is over, now we are building. That's what they did. A European ship of money had arrived, and this money was not counted very much. We were, of course, rather naive as a country and as a society at the time, but the result was overinvestment, the actual cancellation of investments already made and the aggregation of schools. This last one should still be one of the missions of the Minister of Education. The wrong decisions were made, but all the more so as such statements are remembered and perhaps still hang on the Ministry's website, the subject of the reform of the school network. That is why this inquiry was made. Of course it was symptomatic that once again, as it happens here at least once a week, the coalition representative first said that the opposition is essentially ridiculous if he asks for anything at all. Ken-Mart Vaher spoke of the ridicule in the last session. Today it was said that the minister had to suffer for two years on the other side of the remote. This was the argument whereby the reply was initiated. Actually, it's still embarrassing. As with the previous question, Mailis Reps was faithful and told himself everything this time, but he has no desire to answer the exact questions, to comment exactly on the problem. In this respect, he is very different from the previous one, and I believe he is also from the previous Minister of Education. I had the passion to answer the exact question and explain it, and he has the exact opposite passion. When I received an answer on the matter today, it was said in that sentence: 'We have decided today that a state gymnasium will come into each county. 'The word 'today' came out of the mouth of the Minister of Language in almost every sentence. I don't know what the meaning of this case was, but I will specify that this is a long-established criterion. If it is not in the PGS, it will certainly be included in the measure of state secondary schools and in the political agreement. But that's not what we asked. In my introductory speech, I asked that the changes planned on the state high school network be discussed. The changes had to be searched between the lines, and the lines talked crookedly about other things. I wanted to confirm that long-term resource policy has not been changed, and the Minister of Education understands that instead of concrete, it is necessary to channel resources into the brains, that the idea of investment programmes in the school network is not to build more into every county, but precisely to redirect resources towards the content of brains and education, towards teachers' salaries, and that this is the policy of carrot for municipalities. The interest of municipalities must be to organize their school network, close their small secondary schools and send students where there are good opportunities to choose additives, where schools are of optimal size and where top quality education is provided. But instead, the minister answers as if I had said something about the vigorous additional funding for small secondary schools. No, I was just talking about extra funding. I was talking about the need to give... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U149	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U150	... assurance that the reform of the school network will be based on the same studies as the schools' locations so far. I would, of course, have liked to hear something constructive about the fact that if Mailis Reps had to suffer me for two years, which was the difference between our positions. I didn't hear that. I heard a story floating everywhere else. To the question of who should in future be responsible for state secondary schools, whether municipalities or state, he replied that today we are not yet deciding on it, we will wait. That's not the point. It is about whether it is a national function, whether the state must guarantee the same quality of education across Estonia and also be responsible for it. If the amendment provided for in the Education Act has been re-evaluated, as the media may have read, then reasons must still be given. We didn't get those reasons. Now the example of Paide. The rather cynical answer was again, as if the question was that the state gymnasium must be done according to the wishes of the community. I signed the protocol of good intentions on 24 August 2015, precisely with the local community. It was equally unpleasant for them because it was agreed to direct children to learn where the plans for the new school network provided for their guidance, but at the same time it was also a great pleasure for the local community. The Minister of Education said all that back then. He said that setting up an upper secondary school in a vocational campus provides synergies, creates new quality, and this is our new direction. The new Minister of Education considers, however, that it is necessary to fix an old house, which is protected by heritage and privately owned, with different surface constraints and where synergies with vocational schools cannot arise. He's just saying in response that it has to be done with the community. I also have a picture of this I can send it to you, Minister, how I, along with the local community, will solemnly sign a protocol of good intent. You have taken the decision and are saying that you do not have any information that this project will be more expensive. Well, what are you gonna do when you don't know it's more expensive, it's slower, it's under heritage protection and private property! If you haven't taken all this into account, but you're going to tell the community that you've agreed otherwise, what have you been up to this whole time? This is extremely embarrassing. It is very disappointing that the Minister does not realise what his mission is, that the state is responsible for quality and that resources are allocated by quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U151	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U152	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Listening to the minister's answers to the questions asked by the questioners, it may have seemed that the interviewers wanted to reinvent the bicycle or break into the open door, because the problem was not. Everything happens as agreed by several previous ministers several years ago, and everything happens in cooperation with the Riigikogu. The choice of partners of the Ministry, i.e. the choice of schools that could remain in upper secondary school status other than state secondary schools, is well considered. But at the same time, you read and listen to the interviews of coalition politicians, somewhere one sentence and another word. What is there to deny, to small high schools or high schools who had already accepted the situation and their destiny that there is nothing to do, despite nostalgia and romance, it is not appropriate to maintain upper secondary school in these places, has now been given new clues. In fact, they have had a completely unnecessary and unreasonable hope that they could continue as they were. It's sad and it's wrong. It has been said here today who is the better owner, either the state or the local government. You see, this is where the term 'owner' may be misunderstood. If we're talking about real estate owners, house management, school maintenance, then the municipality can be a much better owner. There are anecdotal examples of new state upper secondary schools that the school's economic manager must not hang the picture in the school without consulting or asking for permission from Riigi Kinnisvara AS. But when we talk about the owner as a guarantor of the quality of teaching, I believe that the state is undoubtedly a much better owner than the local government. This must be borne in mind, and here I agree with the heirs: it is a national obligation and the need to ensure a uniform quality of education. That's question number one. That's a very emotional question. Local small secondary schools can have their own beautiful traditions, and there can be very good and experienced teachers who have taught for three generations in a row. There may be, I don't know, good sportsmen. I know a school where there are less than 30 students in high school, but a student of this school won an olympiad in a humanitarian field in Estonia a few years ago, in front of all school pupils with important titles. Such little miracles and success stories are always possible. But at this very school, nine out of 11 graduates did not go on to study in one year. Notice, I'm not talking about college, I'm not talking about college, but they didn't go on to study anything, they didn't go on to study the profession. They and their families were satisfied that they could go to high school for three years: a warm room, full of stomachs, parents' small expenses, didn't have to spend either transport or anything else, and children would rather look at their parents. This is an extension of carefree childhood, as is often ironically said. This is not the case everywhere, but it is sadly often so. It is damn difficult for the local council and the municipal authorities to make the political decision that secondary school or upper secondary school will cease to exist in the area. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U153	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U154	It is precisely because it is so damn difficult for this local authority to make such a decision that it is necessary for the state to take decisions here with a sense of responsibility. The country must approach consistently on the basis of uniform criteria; the country must make this decision. I'm not talking about the municipalities with hundreds of children in high school. There's no problem. I'm talking about 20 or 30 kids in high school right now. In these schools it is not possible to apply courses of study; there you cannot teach electives as required by the national curriculum. In a situation where there are few teachers and they cannot be given a proper burden, it is extremely difficult to do so and therefore children cannot get sufficient education there. I'm sorry, but the local authorities are too often concerned about whether or not they will remain in office after the elections and whether or not they have popular support. I am very afraid that it is painful to say that too little is really thought about the future of children in the region, whether these children have all the opportunities to study and whether they can do well in the next school. There was one concern today that there were too many drop-outs. Yes, of course it is. But there are so many because there is currently no competition in almost all state secondary schools. Anyone who wishes will be accepted to the full. If only warm air comes out of that mouth, it will be accepted. No wonder many upper secondary school students do not understand what upper secondary school education is. I've seen how even in this school where 12 grades are taught in a row in this so-called plumbing school, it's the hardest thing for a child to go from 9th to 10th grade. This is a break in attitudes towards teaching, changing the tasks facing the child, the attitude of teachers, the organisation of teaching, and the nature of the tasks that the child is faced with. This is a very big break, and if you go from one school to another, this break could really be so severe that you'll give up in the first three months because you may not have been assigned tasks in the past based on spiritual demandingness. Nothing happens if this student falls out of the state secondary school and finds the possibility of continuing education in either the vocational school or the upper secondary school for adults. So it would be very nice if the coalition in office did not try so much to please everyone on this matter (as unfortunately it does in many other matters) if it did not try to please all who feel somehow suffering from injustice, depressed and oppressed. Well, you don't have to want everyone to like you all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U155	Toomas Stone Mountain next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U156	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! State gymnasium is one very good thing. Just as good as having one good private high school, and as good as having one good municipal primary school. But the problem is that not all municipal secondary schools are good. Andres Ammas said very nicely that high school should not become a place to extend childhood. I've been saying for 20 years that elementary school has to be close to home, that there is so and so, but in the case of upper secondary school there is only one criterion and that is quality. When we look at quality differences, we see that differences at primary or primary school level are actually relatively small, and that differences arise especially at upper secondary school level. That's why this upper secondary school reform is a great idea. It is quite rightly said that this is not a popular issue in local governments. I have taken this route in Pärnu, turning Koidula Gymnasium into a state high school. I think I lost 500 votes in the 2009 local elections because I fought vehemently for the establishment of a state gymnasium. The real school reform was very important and one of the most painful parts of this process. I would argue that the idea of creating the same state gymnasium was the incentive that had us in Pärnu for school reform. Now that it's been a few or three years, everyone's happy with it. Maybe 'all' is a lot said, but 90% of the people are very happy with it. Indeed, as has been repeatedly said, quality in upper secondary school is decisive and important. This is the main criterion for developing the network of state secondary schools. Andres may have given an example of a gymnasium with only 30 children but also a very talented child. However, I argue that the problem is rather the opposite. The problem is that talented children studying in a small upper secondary school do not stand out because they do not get enough quality education. They are overtaken by a child from some large upper secondary school, where he is better equipped with drugs and better teachers, even though this country school child is perhaps much more talented and could do great things in the future. But since his starting position in terms of education is worse, he may fail to do so. Secondly, the question of funding state secondary schools was not random. The Minister took a very good look at this question. Indeed, the funding of state secondary schools has certain advantages and is, let us say, beneficial to the municipality. This is another reason that motivated the city of Pärnu to do this reform. Therefore, I think that this advantage should remain, that difference should be maintained in order to be able to move forward with this reform. But I didn't like a certain uncertainty here today about whether and how long these state secondary schools were left or how long they would stay. I certainly can't agree with that. We shouldn't give such a signal that we still don't know. Figuratively speaking, we did these state secondary schools yesterday, but now we do not know what will happen tomorrow, whether they will still be preserved, or whether we will give them back to the municipalities. This vague signal should not be given to municipalities. If we've taken one course, then we should go this way to the end, it should go at least ten to twenty years. Perhaps then it will be possible to think about how and how these things can be reorganized. All the more so because there are no real ones to hand over these upper secondary schools. The Minister mentioned the municipal associations. I argue that as a result of the administrative reform, the role of the local government associations will be significantly reduced and that they will not be in any way comparable to Finnish self-government associations. Let me give a simple example: I think that Hiiumaa will not have a local government union, and I think that there will probably be no local government union in Saaremaa either. If there is one municipality in Hiiumaa, what alliance do we make there? The same story may be true in Saaremaa and also in Pärnu County, where six or seven municipalities may remain. So I don't think that's the solution. If one path has been chosen, it should be run for ten or twenty years, and maybe then there will be a rethinking place. I will say, once again, that state gymnasium is a very good idea. I sincerely congratulate those ministers who have lured this idea. I wish there wouldn't be any uncertainty about whether or not we're going down this road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U157	Thank you. Maris Lauri next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U158	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The previous speakers spoke of the very right things. I want to say a few more thoughts to complement them. Indeed, it is very difficult for local authorities to make decisions, and therefore many decisions must be made at state level, in Paide and Tallinn, but also in Narva, not to mention very many small places. However, in order to make these decisions and make them together with the community, people may need to be persuaded and justified and their choices clarified. In order to do so, you must have a very clear picture of the future. I have the feeling that the Minister does not have a clear picture of what the future should be, no matter how far it is, will it be in 10, 15 or 20 years' time. In my imagination, the picture is that we have all the upper secondary schools of the state, under the responsibility of the state. My idea is that in this network of state secondary schools, but more generally throughout the general education network, it is possible to study in Estonian, that we have a common general education school in Estonian. What do we need it for? We cannot make such decisions in education, all of which have a very long-term impact, make the future of young people worse and reduce their opportunities. Studies have been carried out on what young people expect from upper secondary school. They expect choices and good education from upper secondary school. Closeness of home is not key. What's important is that you've received a significant initial boost. If there is no quality education, then there are fewer opportunities, just like insufficient Estonian language skills make the opportunities smaller. We must work to ensure that these opportunities exist, no matter how difficult it is to make these decisions. It cannot be said that these things have not been said or have not been done. When I left the minister's office, there was a draft education law and it was all written down. I really hope that this bill will soon reach the Riigikogu so that we can discuss these important matters and the long-term vision. But until then, I would advise the Minister to deepen and think about what is the best option that should be offered to young people in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U159	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U160	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot avoid temptation, and at the beginning of my speech I will announce that the news of Estonian National Broadcasting said at 10.49 that the teacher's average salary exceeded 1200 euros. That was the message in the media this morning. I am very pleased with today's debate. Despite the fact that the emphasis and visions may be different, the debate on education issues in this Chamber still has a very strong sense of common ground, that we are doing one thing. I may be speaking a little too Tartu-centred today. I admit that most of the things I've been thinking about have already sounded here today. Indeed, both in the organization of the school network and in the case of upper secondary school and education in general, we can sense a certain tension between competition and cooperation. I've sensed it as a teacher, I've sensed it in my school. At some point it seemed difficult to cooperate between upper secondary schools in Tartu, it is easier to do so if you find a partner in another city, either Viljandi, Pärnu or Tallinn. In this case, it is felt that there is no competition and can freely share its ideas and ideas. In Tartu, the school network was cleaned up nicely and painfully. Indeed, the disappearance of schools, which Andres Ammas was discussing today in a slightly different context, was painful. But it seems to me that this pain taught Tartu schools to cooperate with each other. The day before yesterday, joint trials were held in Tartu upper secondary schools. I was at that side of the kitchen when they were prepared. Five gymnasiums argued and sometimes made a loud noise, but you did it. It seems to me that the search for cooperation has spread a little to the level of basic school. Perhaps the days of the week were news that the schools of Tartu agreed among themselves that they would not give grades in the subjects, but that they would give verbal assessments in singing, physical education and art education. It has been a dream that is not covered with very strong rational arguments, rather it has been such an experiential desire. Perhaps the organization of the school network will teach schools to cooperate with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U161	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We're done answering the third question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U162	The fourth question has been submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsepp, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Jüri Adams, Ain Lutsepp and Andres Herkel in the interim report on the implementation of the Estonian Language Development Plan 2011 On behalf of the heirs, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U163	Mr President! Good people's representatives! Madam Minister, thank you for coming so quickly to answer the inquiry that you received on English language day, 14 March. This inquiry essentially ties in with the previous question, as it deals with the Estonian language. I was referring earlier to the very bad signals that could in some way irritate and divide society. One of the signals that could have been absent in order to avoid irritation and resentment was that it took so long for the Estonian Language Council to be formed. The Language Council is a very important institution for all language people and for the Estonian language at all, because it has authority, trust and listening to its advice. When the Language Council finished its work last November, it would have been nice to re-create it very quickly. All the more so since the language strategy expires at the end of this year, and the language council is precisely the one that should draw up a new language strategy to be launched next year. I hope that the Minister will also read out these six questions, so it will be better for the listeners to follow. I attach particular importance to the issue of the nationalist programme, as it is known that the entire diaspora has changed. Whether and to the extent that we can interpret this new diaspora and thus hold the language, this is one of the important issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U164	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Indeed, with the support of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, an inquiry was handed over to today's agenda because I had planned to be here anyway. I think it is appropriate to look back to last week when a number of very positive events took place. After all, it is always nice to highlight those who have received bonuses for promoting the Estonian language. I have to say that, apart from national bonuses, this is an annual award, the delivery ceremony of which moves around Estonia and which has been given for ten years, a great overview of all kinds of initiatives. It all went away on Friday in Vändra. It is nice to see how the nature of linguistic acts has become very broad. These include information technology initiatives, the actions of the brilliant characters of the social network, as well as pure language science. When I come to the question, I say that I will read the question first and then I will answer it. I must thank the specialists at the Ministry of Education who have given detailed answers to the questions. The first question: 'Why hasn't the language council completed its work so far in November 2016 replaced the new language council, which should draw up a development plan for the next period, i.e. from 1 January 2018 with HTM? How can an institution that does not yet exist participate in the preparation of a comprehensive and barely coordinated development plan? ' The Estonian Language Council, as you know, is currently 11 members, the new composition was approved on 16 March 2017. The new membership has more or less the same members as the previous membership, and there are also three new members. The Ministry of Culture appointed Artjom Tepljuk as a member of the Association of Foreign Language Teachers at the very last minute, despite a long period of coordination, Leili Sägi and Martin Ehala, from the University of Tartu, who currently also represents the University of Helsinki. Martin Ehala has also been in previous Council formations, but now he represents Helsinki and Tartu. The new Chairman of the Language Council is Kadri Sõrmus, who has so far participated in all the meetings of the Council as a representative of the Ministry of Education. Members of the previous formation were interviewed for the Estonian language status survey. It is an impartial study that provides an important input to the preparation of a new strategy. In addition to the Estonian Language Council, the Ministry of Education and Research consults with other ministries and cooperation partners so that the coordination of the development plan goes well. However, since the same question arose last Thursday when the composition of the Language Council was approved, I would say that there were several reasons, not only that several ministerial exchanges took place in the Ministry of Education and Research, but also that these exchanges took place in other ministries. We often didn't get any feedback, and things were on hold. It certainly wasn't a good signal, I agree with the inquisitors. However, this was certainly very far from politics and there were also a number of proposals. In addition, there were contradictions within the language council itself. In particular, many of the current and previous members contacted and asked for this Council to be slightly smaller. The Council used to have 17 members. We followed the law and present the language council on the basis of the institutions outlined in the new composition. That's where the 11 members came from. We followed the proposals, we did not amend any of them ourselves. This is information from our ministry. The second question: 'How has the proposal for a wider application of language technology achievements in public administration, language learning and education progressed? ' The Ministry of Education and Research has negotiated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the National Information Systems Agency the development of language technology opportunities (machine translation, speech synthesis, speech recognition, etc.) and their integration into public sector information systems. One of the main objectives of the language technology follow-up programme starting in 2018 is to implement language technology tools and opportunities more systematically in the public sector. This has also been the proposal of the Language Council. Several public authorities have shown greater interest in language technology applications in the past year: Ministry of Social Affairs in the field of e-health, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Justice in the field of security, State Chancellery and Tax and Customs Board to reduce public sector workload, Rescue Board and Police and Border Guard Board to simplify the analysis of large text data. Examples include the introduction of transcription software, which allows to reduce the time taken to dismantle and translate audio recordings, the translation of machine translation documents from Estonian into English and the application for analysing large text data, which allows the search for content in documents in different databases (e.g. case law). The possibilities of speech synthesis and speech recognition are planned in the Estonian-Russian study environment of the Estonian Language Institute and in the B1 level e-courses ordered by the Ministry of Education and Research. The ERR TV channels have a subtitre ringing system that allows visually impaired people to monitor programmes more closely. The National Programme has also supported the development of Elisa Raamat Iselugeja, which reads out e-books and whose most modern and interactive form will certainly increase the number of readers. It was also marked as a candidate for the year's work. Third: 'Have we started and how far has the Russian-Estonian and Estonian-Russian dictionaries have been updated free of charge (e.g. the Estonian-Russian dictionary was completed in 2009, the volume is about 60,000 keywords and about 40,000 inquiries per day)? ' The Estonian Language Institute prepares for the creation of an Estonian-Russian learning environment, which includes the Estonian-Russian and Russian-Estonian dictionary environment together with modern digital solutions, which complement the school's educational resources. The project includes Estonian-Russian and Russian-Estonian online dictionaries, automatically generated exercises and tasks, and the user interface of the study corps. In parallel, the content of the glossary will be updated. The interface that will be created for Estonian-Russian dictionaries and other existing dictionaries will focus on the user and the specific state of use. The basis for organising dictionary information is the principle of 'one task or function at a time', which helps to avoid excessive data. The information is provided on the basis of different levels of users (e.g. school pupils, ordinary users, experts). Six windows have been designed for the environment: Find Information, Translate, Check, Please Help, Learn, Practice or Play. Fourth: "In what stage of completion is the extension of the programme of fellow nationalists to support more than hitherto the maintenance of Estonian children and young people living abroad in the Estonian educational, linguistic and cultural space? ' The National Companions programme is a ministerial document, the principle of which is that each Ministry involved in the implementation of the programme is responsible for the implementation and financing of its main activities. Since the agreement with partners (Ministry of Culture, Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications) was not born to complement the programme with new areas, the Ministry of Education and Research has expanded the programme within the framework of its main activities, i.e. teaching Estonian language and culture and providing education in Estonian. The main focus is on developing e-learning and electronic teaching materials for Estonian language and creating better opportunities for young people in the Estonian language environment. With the support of the Ministry of Education and Research, the Üllumikool, which is based on the Estonian national curriculum, has been launched and operates. It offers Estonian children living outside Estonia the opportunity to study in e-courses and engages in the development of e-elementary school. The training takes place in the HITSA Moodle environment for months. At the beginning of each month, students learn about the material and new tasks and work at their own pace within the month. This form of learning is particularly helpful in developing the writing skills that children living abroad often lack. Now I'm looking at four minutes, but I have three more pages to read, but I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U166	You can find a good way to answer these questions later with the questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U167	Yeah, that's how we're trying to solve it. At the World School, 130 students from 21 countries are currently studying. The Ministry of Education and Research has set up a working group to further expand the activities of the Global School and to consider setting up an e-elementary school. The Ministry of Education and Research has started negotiations to prepare the B1 level e-learning courses in Estonian. The adult learner course includes a number of skills development and tasks developed for this purpose, and has continuous teacher support, as well as instructional materials in Russian and English. The course is structured linearly and is designed to be made from the beginning to the end. The learner can repeat or skip certain parts according to personal needs. There are now more than 30,000 users on "Keeleklik', 25,000 of them using Russian and 5,000 English versions. The course is designed to be used free of charge by everyone. In cooperation with the State Chancellery, the "EV 100" plan is to increase the number of summer Estonian language and mind camps for children in Estonia, so that 100 more children can participate in the camps in 2018. In 2016, there were 120 children in the camps. In 2016, with the support of the programme, a youth exchange was held for the first time for young people from 18 to 26 years of age, with the aim of introducing opportunities for studying and working in Estonia and Estonia's achievements and future view and offering non-formal language learning. 30 young people, 20 from abroad and 10 from Estonia participated in youth exchanges. They will continue to work with them in the future, possibly by increasing the number of participants. Under the programme, students in the early childhood education curriculum have been posted to internships in Estonian kindergartens abroad, both in Finland and Sweden. Agreements are being concluded to create traineeships for teacher training students abroad, where Estonian is taught in general education schools, Sunday schools, associations and elsewhere. Question 5: "How has the National Programme for Research and Development of Language and Cultural Contacts and Finno-Ugric Languages been organised and implemented to develop and expand the use of Estonian language? ' The programme for research and development of language and cultural contacts has not been created. Due to the lack of resources, it could only be created in place of existing programmes. If the study or monitoring indicates that an existing programme (school textbooks in English, external academic studies, terminology, language technology, Estonian language, cultural memory, etc.) has not justified its existence or does not fulfil its objectives and may terminate its activities, then we will put the creation of a new programme on the agenda. The study of Finno-Ugric languages is supported by the tribal programme, and during the current programming period the study share has been significantly increased, while the number of students receiving support has decreased. Question 6 (I can read the question, but I will try to answer it in the following round of questions and answers): 'What has the Ministry done to increase the motivation of learning Estonian as a teacher among young people? What are the results? ' The Ministry of Education and Research, in cooperation with the Estonian Language Association, will pay a one-off scholarship of EUR 400 at the University of Tartu and Tallinn to six students who have studied Estonian since 2015. The Ministry of Education and Research supports the organisation of Estonian language days in schools to promote, among other things, Estonian philology and the invitation of the Estonian language teacher. I also have the opportunity to introduce a programme for the appreciation and attractiveness of the teaching profession, which is set as one of the objectives of the Ministry. In cooperation with partners, a concept has been drawn up for the period from 2017 to 2020 setting out the starting points and the activities of the parties. These activities were recorded in two pages by our teaching department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U168	The first oral question is put to Minister Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I ask about the programme of fellow nationalists and especially about the opportunities for young people to study in Estonia. You spoke about the camps of Estonian language and mind. They are certainly very nice and good, as well as intended for the wider audience, but the scholarships for professional studies, as I understand it, are 12 years, and there are 10 special courses for Estonian language studies. It's not that much. How effective are they? Will all of this work hand in hand with the general desire to bring these people to Estonia and make sure that they stay in Estonia if possible? Is this support to be extended?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U170	Thank you. When these figures are taken up, it turns out that the nationalist program has not been very large. In fact, these figures have been quite similar for a long time. The possibility of studying in Estonia has been covered very differently. A good questioner remembers that once there was a completely separate program for Belarusian students. Now, through Innove, there is a study in Estonia programme for which we have allocated separate funds, but free learning is more possible when people are already coming to study in Estonian. What is the reason why these opportunities are no longer so strongly extended? I had the same question when the young people in Ukraine were interested in the subject. The Ukrainian diaspora here in Estonia has said on several occasions that there are young people in different regions of Ukraine who, for various reasons, would rather study for us. It has then been explained that these young people who come to participate in the Estonian-language programme automatically enter free learning, and the question is more about support. As a result, it has been viewed in a completely different way. So, unfortunately, I can't say one particular answer. The position of the Ministry of Education is that the National Companion program has a number of problems. Separate scholarships have not been the measure they would have wanted to expand. They consider that this could rather take place within the framework of the broader 'Learning in Estonia' programme, perhaps purposelessly to one country or another, than is necessary. But in the introduction, the other ministries were mentioned quite briefly. At the time, the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was very strong, but the desire to participate in it has become quite lukewarm. This is the information I had to take from our house today. It is possible that this information is on a personal level. I should definitely get more information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about what's expected before the generalisation. Are those 10 and 12 enough? In short, the National Companion Programme Council itself would certainly like to increase both the financial volume and their ambitions. They have wishes and dreams. The biggest problem that, I believe, the good questioners have also thought about is that the target groups have changed significantly. When we started a few decades ago, the National Companions Programme was more in favour of supporting individual language communities, especially those located east of us. At the moment, there is a disproportionate expectation that the programme of nationalists will deal with new people who have left Estonia and keep them in the Estonian language environment. There is no financial capacity for this. We have discussed a few times in the Ministry what these volumes and expectations should be. I understand that the very broad-based Council of the National Companions Programme is discussing this. We are certainly also trying to find solutions in our house by redeploying certain priorities in order to increase our capacity. But they themselves say that they are expected to do what they cannot do with the resources and people they have.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U171	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You referred to the question of Estonian language teachers in your reply. How serious is this problem? Are these scholarships What are the steps the Ministry wants to take?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U173	I'm trying to refer to our teacher department for a long review. In addition to the contribution of the Estonian Language Association and the Language Department, or language days, the teaching department has identified the topic of teachers' pay among the activities of the Ministry of Education and the competence centres you mentioned, where we deal with the timing and relevance of teacher training. Curriculums have been constantly developed and sought to create an environment that is more attractive to young people and more related to school life in order to allow more flexibility in entering the teaching profession. The Ministry also strongly supports the Youth School Foundation and the professional system. The Ministry also supports the beginner's teacher's professional year programme and is involved in the payment of start-up grants in schools outside Tartu and Tallinn. We have the Lifelong Learning Strategy programme 'Sparkly and motivated teachers and heads of educational institutions', where financial support is available, and each year, one hundred of the best students studying on the basis of a teacher training curriculum are given a professional scholarship to value teacher learning, analogous to a smart field of specialisation. The scholarship is 160 euros per month. In addition, administrative agreements concluded with the Ministry, the University of Tartu and the University of Tallinn have agreed that studying within the teacher training curriculum is free of charge for students, including part-time studies. Perhaps if a person working in another field comes and wants to improve, he or she can also study part - time for free. This also means that administrative agreements have agreed not to charge tuition fees to students who work as a teacher and, at the same time, study on the basis of teacher training curricula. It has been a very popular opportunity among working teachers who need qualifications. These are part of the things that have been developed. Why am I bringing them out here? It is often the case that several projects and programmes are being carried out in the field, but general information may not be known everywhere. What is the picture from the university side? Universities themselves say that the interest in teaching is less at the time of entry than during the training period. If you ask 15-year-olds today if they want to be a teacher, the percentage that dreams of teaching is very small. Students, too, have a rather modest interest in teaching at the time of entry, but there is an increasing interest in teaching at the time of their studies and among those who have already received higher education. Speaking of lack of teachers, we must seriously consider all aspects here. We have a start-up grant, but maybe we need to do something more like a start-up grant at some point. We have a shrinking school network from one region to another, there are very good teachers left, but they are often either tied to real estate or financially in such a state that they are not ready to move to another part of Estonia. This is something we need to discuss together at some point. For example, Põlva's state gymnasium had to say no to very good teachers. You can see things like that somewhere else. In fact, in some places very good teachers have already been left at the door, while we do not find such good teachers in other areas. Maybe there could be something like a starting grant, a teacher's mobility grant or something. In the United States, where there are other economies of scale, this is a very common measure among employers, helping people to move. I mean, we've seen these helicopter-driven houses on film. But seriously, we have very good teachers in our full workforce who are no longer able to find work in some areas, but maybe in another region. That is also one thing we have discussed. The fact that people with other qualifications have come to school and given positive feedback has indicated that young people will change their mind over the teaching profession over time and take a more positive approach to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U174	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U175	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! About a year and a half ago, the opposite was very topical: families wanted to return to Estonia, but their children were unable to acquire the grammar of the Estonian language, although they were able to do so in oral communication. Several schools did not accept these children, and families were forced to return abroad. What's the situation now? Is this issue still topical, or have measures been taken in the meantime to resolve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U176	When you look at how well these things work, some speeches at the end of the previous question were very critical in this respect, which are born from a social or community perspective, it turns out that they are usually the most viable. One of them is this World School. In the light of these examples, when a young person wanted to come back and take, for example, a comprehensive school final exam so that he could stay here to study, this measure arose. This World School was born like Finland and now has the Skype section. In the original, it was meant purely for children studying in Finland who are studying at Finnish school and whose family would like to come back (sometimes a young person wants to come back, but usually wants to come back to the family). In addition to studying on the basis of the Finnish core curriculum, this child should also study what the Estonian curriculum provides for. I mean language learning, but to a large extent also mathematics, because in Estonia the mathematics curriculum is more detailed and otherwise structured. However, other basics have gradually been added. That's the interest, let's say, in almost a few hundred children. More and more larger target groups are also emerging. When I met with the initiators of this matter in Finland, these teachers said that more and more not only children who are studying in a general education school in one country or another and who need Estonian studies and a specific part of our curriculum, but also those who are moving with their parents and who have been cut off from the Estonian school system for some period (usually a short period). Yes, officially, they should be in constant contact with the teacher and study in the form of distance learning, external learning. But World School is built differently in Skype. This idea came from the Finnish example. In Finland, this is very similar to the World School. It is similar in Sweden and in many other countries where the state finances it separately. We in the Ministry of Education have decided that, since it arose as a matter of necessity and very clearly fills a single void, we should create stable public funding. Right now, it's a lot of teacher enthusiasm, so they've got nippy-fingers from here and there. We should recognise this as a separate primary school. The second question is how many schools are ready for this. There are very different examples. There are schools that have adapted their system to it, and there are teachers who do it. Quite quickly, children are being sought back into the conventional system where, for example, there is experience of the movement of diplomats from one country to another, but unfortunately, these schools, which have very positive experiences, say, on the fingers of two hands, can be counted. If such a child comes to a school where there is no such experience at all, then it tends to be that the child is automatically wanted to be placed in a class one year younger. Personally, I've been through it twice because I moved from one place to another. Yes, I'm telling you, there are success stories, but there are examples in both ways. The third serious problem is that parents' expectations after their return may not always be in the same category as the opportunities offered to them by the school place they have been set up. At the moment, the Ministry of Education and Research is expecting a change, especially from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Employers with mobile labour also say that there could be a school in the city centre as far as possible in Tallinn specialising in those children where they would have places and teachers available to students through either Skype or other solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U177	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. Krista Aru will open the negotiating round. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U178	Mr President! Madam Secretary! Good people's representatives! Language is a living organism. The tongue waits for him to be cared for and kept. In a small country like Estonia, our dear Estonian language needs a coherent approach, a coherent development plan. Let us call it a development plan or a plan for maintaining this language, but we need it. I am very sorry that the Ministry of Education and Research allowed such a break to occur when one language council had ceased its activities and the second took so long to form. What's this about? The question is, if a new language strategy or a new language development plan has to be in place since 2018, then when will it be possible to analyse the plan that is still in force this year. We should not, after all, make provision for new tasks without analysing the current plan. I have a number of ideas about the current development plan, and also about the new development plan, which are perhaps even contradictory in some ways, in some ways they are like questions. As we know, we have a number of national programmes that also support the development of a language in one region or another. One of these is the language technology programme, which I think it would be high time to increase its financial capacity, because it is a very advanced programme that is very much needed to maintain and maintain our language. The second programme, which may also need to be rethinked more widely, because it is time to do so, is the same programme of nationalists. As the Minister rightly pointed out, this program was developed at the time when we were used to the external Estonian communities that had maintained Estonia after the 1940s. They had worked tremendously hard, they had been at the heart and soul, they had their own archives, but time has changed. The Estonian community, now living in Paris, Berlin or Australia, also needs to be kept in the Estonian language room. How to do that, by supporting Sunday schools, through online programs or summer camps? All this needs to be thought through, because no one can possibly offer a single and very smart solution immediately. I have a great deal to worry about with a publication that, I hope, everyone has heard about, like the Old Harp. It was Jakob Hurt who started giving out our records once. This extradition by historical parishes is still taking place. Such grey thick volumes appear: Kodavere 'Old Harp', Iisaku 'Old', etc. zither' These are small cultural treasures of one nation and culture. Now we've gotten to a situation where we have development plans, we have programs, and we still have some programs, but the issuing of the Old Harp doesn't fit like any of them. We should not allow such a thing in any way. Or have we come so far in our development that we no longer need such a thing? Such black places or grey spots should not remain in our language or in the meaning of our culture as a whole. That is why I want the strength of both the Minister and the new Language Council in drawing up a smart, modern, far-sighted and coherent language strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U179	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We're done answering the fourth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U180	The fifth question has been submitted by members of the Riigikogu Ain Lutsepp, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Artur Talvik and Monika Haukamm, and this is about the future of the Estonian border guard. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U181	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Honorable Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! By replacing my sick colleague Ain, I will start today with two quotes from two dignified individuals who know this subject well. Vice-Admiral Tarmo Kõuts has said: 'The process of merging police and border guards on purely personal motives has led to the disappearance of the state function of border guarding and has led to the departure of hundreds of trained border guards, including officers and officers. As a result, we have developed a security vacuum in the border zone, as people have been reduced and the area has not received enough attention. ' Our party partner, Professor Jüri Saar, has said that the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board in the course of the police reform is bearing the spirit of the current end of the era and that the office is essentially not prepared to counter new threats. In his view, the capacity to cooperate with the Defence Forces and the Defence League should be stressed in this area. Unfortunately, this cooperation is currently virtually non-existent with regard to the establishment of the PBGB. Professor Saar has also pointed out that the name of the new border service established by the European Union includes the word 'coastal defence'. We in Estonia must only begin to build this capacity. The capacity of Estonian border guards has always been important for the free party. It was only the day before yesterday that this topic was discussed at the meeting of the Free Party's representative assembly. Among many observations it was pointed out that, of course, we need to increase the capacity of border guards, but more specifically, a systematic organisation of professional and continuing training for border guards should be developed. A systematic maritime border and a maritime protection concept should also be developed. Opportunities should be found to involve the Defence League in border guards, especially maritime border guards. The meeting rightly emphasised that Estonia has not been modest at all, but rather a great opportunity to lead cooperation and better information movement, especially in defending the European Union's external borders. All of this concern is the current question of questioning. Professor Jüri Saar rightly pointed out that, in his view, the decision to form the PBA was a sign of one of the times that had already disappeared. After all, the European Union Regulation of 14 September 2016 established the European Union's Border and Coast Guard system, consisting of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency and the authorities responsible for border management in the Member States. It's kind of incomprehensible to us what it means. Should our PPP as a whole be included in it, or is it only suitable for an integrated border management office? We want to point out precisely that cooperation between national defence structures and the PBGB is certainly not sufficient. The question will always be read by the answerer himself, perhaps today, by the respected Prime Minister. I'd be happy to give him that chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U182	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U183	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable heirs! First of all, let me wish you all a beautiful, sunny and energetic spring! It's spring today. And, of course, I would like to thank the heirs for their serious questioning. The author of the inquiry said that the respondent likes to read the questions himself, and I will, of course, do exactly as the members of the Riigikogu wish. It's really clearer if I read the questions myself. This is a serious and very important issue. As you wrote in your inquiry, indeed, a European Border and Coast Guard was established by Regulation 2016/1624 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This unit consists of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency, or Frontex, and the national authorities responsible for border management. This is the Police and Border Guard Board in Estonia. The objective of the European Border and Coast Guard is to ensure the effective implementation of European integrated border management and to provide rapid assistance, under possible pressure, to any one of them, to any one of them. just to the country of the external borders of the European Union, including Estonia. The first question: 'What national restructuring does the creation of a single EU Border and Coast Guard Agency require? How does the Estonian Border Guard participate in this work? ' The creation of a European Border and Coast Guard system does not require any change in national structures. As has been the case so far, Member States have a primary responsibility for managing their external borders. However, the Regulation extends the tasks of the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders of the Member States of the European Union, or Frontex, and renamed the Agency the European Border and Coast Guard Agency. The same abbreviation as Frontex remains in use. Structural restructuring is not expected from Member States. Our task is to work with Frontex and to contribute to the Frontex Rapid Response Reserve with technology and people, as well as to joint operations. Estonia has committed itself to participating in the Frontex Rapid Response Reserve with up to 18 officials. Participation in joint operations shall be agreed bilaterally on the basis of the capabilities of each Member State. The reserve shall be a permanent corps comprising at least 1500 border guards and other staff. The permanent corps does not mean that officials should be sent to Frontex, and the Rapid Response Reserve will be convened if necessary. Honourable questioners! Your second question: 'What is your understanding of the future of the Estonian Border Guard as Prime Minister? Do you plan and how you will step up the capacity of border guards and establish military border guards? ' Having met both the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and the other staff of the institution, the government office has received an overview of the construction of the eastern border of Estonia and its modernisation using modern technology, I believe that our border surveillance capacity will be strengthened from year to year. This year we are investing 20 million euros in strengthening the eastern border thanks to the Estonian people, thanks to Estonian taxpayers. It was certainly the right step to merge the Police Department, the Border Guard Board and the Citizenship and Migration Board. This reduced the duplication of administrative activities and allows us to make optimal use of available resources. Among other things, the combination of some functions has provided an opportunity to focus more resources on police and border guards working at the front line. The indicators characterising the public services of the Police and Border Guard Board have improved as a result of these steps. Therefore, restructuring and the creation of a separate border guard are not currently planned. As far as military border control is concerned, a border guard in the form of a defence force does not increase the security of the Estonian state. In Estonia's defence and security planning processes, it has not been established so far that the lack of armed border guards constitutes a capacity gap. As a whole, both the state border and national defence in Estonia have been built on continuous cooperation between the power structures. Question 3: "What changes is the Government of the Republic planning for the organisation of the professional education of border guards? ' This is certainly a very important question. Internal protection education is acquired at the National Defence Academy. The National Defence Academy has prepared new curricula for the Police and Border Guard College in both vocational training and higher education. The principle of new curricula is that all graduates of the Police and Border Guard College will be prepared for both the police and the border guard and will be ready to join the border if necessary. This is a completely new principle that ensures staff flexibility so that people can be used according to the needs of the service and the wishes of the officials. Question 4: Will and when will there be additional resources to improve the capacity of the border guard fleet, increase rescue capacity at sea and rebuild the border guard sea base? ' Thank you for drawing attention to this very important issue. I have visited the Maritime Guard Centre of the Police and Border Guard Board as well as the Navy, and I think that in the near future it will be necessary to carry out an analysis of the maritime capabilities of the Maritime Administration, for example, in addition to these institutions. Estonia is a small country and we must necessarily work together to fulfil the functions for which cooperation is possible. With regard to your particular question, in 2018 the Police and Border Guard Board will receive a new surveillance aircraft and a new multifunctional ship. Once this ship arrives, the entire fleet of the Police and Border Guard Board will be upgraded. This means that all ships have been acquired after the restoration of the independence of the Republic of Estonia. A monitoring aircraft will ensure significantly better monitoring of marine areas, while a new ship and an aeroplane together will also provide faster assistance to those in need. On 13 September 2016, the previous government already approved the decision to place the naval unit of the Police and Border Guard Board on the territory of the Port of Mine and Wolfpea. In this way, the MPA Marine Unit will receive modern work, residential, maintenance and storage facilities. Cooperation between different authorities will be improved and substantial cost savings will be achieved compared to the investments needed for the reconstruction of the Border Guard Port. At the same time, everything necessary for the operation of the MPA Marine Unit is guaranteed. However, relocation will also cost something; these costs are estimated at EUR 4.76 million, which can be covered by money from the sale of the Border Guard Port. Question 5: "Which steps have been planned or planned to halt the ageing and reduction of the staff of the PPP as highlighted in the audit of the National Audit Office? " Once again, a very topical question! I am more than convinced that this issue is being dealt with every day by both the Director-General of the PBA, Elmar Vaher, and the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, but of course the Government of the Republic as a whole is also dealing with it. At the same time, staff numbers should not be too busy, alternatives should be sought, innovative solutions should be sought, so that functions can be performed in an exemplary manner. As an example, I bring about the use of retired and slightly less elderly people in certain service tasks, such as monitoring the monitoring picture. The work will certainly help to improve the efficiency of a variety of innovative solutions, such as automatic speed control and automated border control gates, but certainly also the construction of the eastern border and the provision of up-to-date monitoring and surveillance equipment. I have promised that I will keep an eye on this matter at all times. Question 6: 'Immediately, the internal security development plan for a third is not financially covered. What are we going to do to bring together the development plan and reality? ' This is an issue that we will be dealing with in the coming weeks as we prepare the country's budget strategy. I expect clear priorities, of course, above all from the Ministry of the Interior, but I am sure that our internal security will be strengthened from year to year. Once again, thank you to the heirs for setting up a very serious and important subject! If there are any further questions, I am certainly willing to respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U184	Mr Helme asks the first oral question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U185	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! You made a number of correct bold statements, confirming that year-on-year surveillance of our borders will be strengthened. In fact, we're not controlling all our borders now, east, south, west or north. If we had armed border guards, it would certainly increase the security of our country, there is no doubt about that. But here's the question. In Europe, several countries have re-established their border controls within the Schengen visa space, either temporarily or indefinitely. Should Estonia have such a desire or need, how quickly and how able we can restore border controls at any border? After all, we have allowed our people to leave the service, and there will be no new ones, even if we had an estimated 30 to 35 million a year for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U186	Thank you, good questioner! Certainly Estonia controls its border, and not just its own border. We will certainly also check the external borders of NATO and the European Union, which is the Estonian border. You are asking if we could temporarily re-establish border controls within the Schengen area. Indeed, sometimes this is necessary and in very few cases the Estonian state has done so. This capacity, of course, exists in the country. At the same time, we are based on the basic principles agreed in the Schengen visa area: the free movement of services, goods, capital and people. We very much hope that there will also be the fifth freedom, which is the free movement of digital data. If we go further in answering this question, the main objective is, of course, to build a border. But I also gave two examples of other areas: in 2018, the PBA will receive a new surveillance aircraft and will also acquire a multifunctional ship. Both help to make the border more secure, guard the border, and preventative work. They also, of course, have other functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U187	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I'll ask you about the border water bodies separately. For a small Estonia, we have a water border for a very long time. Right now, you've come up with a few things to fix the job, but I'm sure it won't work. If we're gonna have some illegals or whoever, we're not gonna be able to control our waterline.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U189	All right, let's get more detailed. First of all, from a new surveillance plane. Why does the PBY need this? First for the detection of marine pollution, second for the identification of ships and third for the search on land. That's why we need a PMA surveillance plane. Now, let's take the multifunctional ship. What do you need it for? It is needed to combat marine pollution and to monitor the security of the area rapidly. We have a ship like this right now, and I personally have experience of it. I've made a certain contribution to getting it. Ten or more years ago, the city of Tallinn helped to acquire this ship. Now, of course, we need a more modern, better-tech ship, a more powerful ship, a so-called mothership, with smaller vessels on it, for example motor boats, or in summer time also jet skis, which can be sent quickly to the islands of Estonia and to the small spots. It all gives us more power. We can monitor, monitor and monitor our borders and, if necessary, react quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U190	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U191	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! We are a country that owns the European Union's external borders, and we have a duty to organise effective border surveillance and protection. It is unacceptable for a character to test, by trial and error, the abolition of certain posts in border guards and border crossings in connection with the transition to group-based management. I don't think you've heard that so far, but Elmar, your big friend, is testing it. Why does the government pay undue little attention to the ability to organise border surveillance and to the unbridled self-action of the police management of the PBGB in dismantling working structures?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U192	Thank you, Mr. Kaskpeit! I'm gonna start with what I've started with you in the debate before. I say this wholeheartedly, that the contribution that you personally have made to building the border, strengthening the border is grateful. Thank you for that. I don't have any friends with one person or another, these are working relationships. What the Estonian state is doing at its border, you are well aware of the fact that we are in the process of building the eastern border. As I pointed out in response to the inquiry, thanks to the people of Estonia, we can invest 20 million euros this year in the construction of the eastern border. We will certainly be able to acquire the necessary resources to monitor the border, to make the border safer. And it is also important that we participate in international cooperation through Frontex. We've actually been a pretty active partner at Frontex. To give some examples, the Police and Border Guard Board's ship has been attending Frontex exercises for over a year, our surveillance plane has been there for about 30 days a year, and there have also been 25 to 30 people from the police and border guards there every year. Our cooperation with Frontex on documentary expertise is good, and the new Rapid Response Reserve gives Estonia the opportunity to participate with up to 18 employees of the PBGB. I think that all this means, on the one hand, protecting the Estonian border more narrowly, but, on the other hand, definitely defending the border of the European Union more widely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U193	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U194	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We've heard progress through your mouth. We're gonna get a plane in the air and a fancy ship. You also noted the need for surveillance radar. But how does our goal of increasing the capacity of border guards come together with a plan that provides for the pooling of human units in Tallinn that carry out radar surveillance? People are leaving where the radar stations are. But I guess they get broken sometimes. Human activities in the form of human control and observation are also necessary. If there is such a plan, is it compatible with such a wave of small people assembled in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U195	Thank you, good questioner! I think you marked the right subject. First of all, progress. These are our joint successes, they are not the progress of one or two people, they are the progress of one or two parties, they are the progress of the Estonian state. I follow the principle that my eye is king. It is not conceivable to manage all processes from this capital. You will remember that there was once a politician who said that everything should come to live in Tallinn. I very much hope that this will never happen. If we take the activities of the Police and Border Guard Board on a broader scale, some of the direction of the coalition agreement has been reversed. First of all, we want to increase the number of regional police officers. We are not just talking about Tallinn or Tartu, we are talking about the county centres, it is about the outskirts of Estonia. The second, considered necessary by the Police and Border Guard Board, is the aim of increasing rapid response capabilities. The coalition has provided for people to be paid, because it also requires specific people in addition to investment. Thirdly, we have come up with a general principle, which I hope will also be supported by the EKRE, which is the removal of jobs from Tallinn. I really think that we have capable and good people in county centres who can also perform certain functions in this area. We have said that a thousand jobs could be taken out of Tallinn. Speaking of a few more words about the border, it is a fundamental point of view that direct border control must become better and international cooperation must be more effective. We must certainly be able to prevent and improve the monitoring of organised crime. I also note the Schengen compensatory measures within the country. These are issues that we certainly need to keep in focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U196	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In October 2014, border guards were reformed. Some of the cordons were converted into jobs, i.e. most of the sub-units were essentially lost. Now the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board has a new plan: the eastern border is also planning to lose these posts that were established three years ago. They probably want to go the same way as the patrol police, but no analysis has been done in this area. The pilot project was launched on 1 March when the South East Police Department was formed to switch to group-based management. The Võru, Valga and Põlva Precinct were merged and run jointly. The question is about the pilot project. Do you think that such a reform should increase the ability to guard the border? If so, what is the expression of this capacity increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U198	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Jaak Madison. You are asking whether internal security reforms should result in increased capacity. Of course it should! These reforms and minor changes would not make sense if capacity were reduced. What analysis do we have at our disposal now? We have the National Audit Office's assessment, which really does not cover the subject you mentioned, but it assesses the formation of the Police and Border Guard Board. The overall conclusion is that the institution is able to secure various services and that the quality of the services has not decreased. And there is another important factor that the National Audit Office highlights. It is claimed that the combined office guarantees people that the state will come to help people more quickly. It must also be taken into account that there is no duplication between the different agencies. In summary, I will answer you that all pilot and other projects at the border must be based on the objective that our capabilities will increase, not remain the same, let alone decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U199	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I promise to doubt whether the border guard ship and the surveillance aircraft can monitor the Estonian border and fix all violations, and not only fix them, but also reject them and introduce countermeasures. This is about the same statement as the fact that one police patrol, which curates the route to Tallinn Tartu, guarantees full security throughout the entire highway. It's not conceivable! But my question is that the 2015 electoral platform of the Centre Party included a promise to re-establish a separate border guard. We are now seeing that no steps have been taken in this direction. You're talking about pilot projects and other projects. Have you completely abandoned the plan to restore an independent border guard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U200	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U201	Thank you, dear Mart Helme. I'm gonna start with you guys calling out a plane and a ship. The Police and Border Guard Board has more than one foundation. In reply to the members of the Group of the Honourable Free Party, I have already noted that I think it is necessary to carry out a proper review of the foundations of the various institutions and authorities and, if possible, to combine forces at sea. But whether they have one plane and one ship or more, you will agree that their ability to fix violations is greater than that of Mardi and Jüril if they try to fix them somehow in this respectable Riigikogu hall. Are all violations confirmed? Well, that's what we're trying to do. Do you want to strike back? It is clear that, when it comes to the military crossing of the border, we will, of course, strike back. For this we have the strength, both Estonia itself and our allies. But you don't mean just the military aspect, either. Let us be honest, we have had problems with marine pollution, and for years now. It is not only about combating marine pollution, but also about monitoring. Thanks to the two investments indicated, monitoring will improve, but it is true that this multifunctional ship also has the capacity to control marine pollution. However, if you ask whether a hundred percent can prevent and reject anything, a hundred percent will never be possible. It is very good that you referred to the Centre Party programme and our positions. Thanks to the fact that we are now a government department, we have been able to implement our programme very vigorously and stand up for our principles. Our aim is for Estonia to be more united, for Estonia to be more coherent, socially balanced and for businesses to do better. But obviously it is not the point of the inquiry to dissect the implementation of the Centre Party program. However, I agree to debate this issue with you in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U202	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! However, you did not answer Mart Helme's question on the change in the position of the Centre Party. Please answer this! When you answered our question, however, you slipped over the fifth question quite easily. It is, of course, nice that alternatives are being sought, that retirement age is being used to monitor the monitoring picture and so on. But what the National Audit Office says about the ageing of the staff of the PBA is still alarming. The question is that it has been predicted by 2025: if the current trend continues, the p.P.A. official body will be reduced by 30%. In this light, what role does the Academy of Home Affairs, the stability of its work, play?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U204	Thank you, good questioner! I hope the President does not intervene, but there were at least three questions. However, I am happy to respond to all of them. The position of the Centre Party has indeed been that the Estonian border must be strengthened, the border guard sector must be developed through the PBGB. That is still our position. It is important to invest in the construction of the border. I also personally went to the border when I was an opposition ambassador because it was important to me. And that has always been important for the entire Group of the Centre Party. Now, in cooperation with the Socialists and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, we can contribute even more to the investment in this work. You said that the answer to Question 5 was not enough. Yeah, well, it's a really bad estimate that a lot of people are gonna be able to leave the EPA in the next few years. It is, of course, the issue of the payroll that is important here. It is no secret that, for many years, the PBGB has applied for EUR 11.7 million from the state budget to raise the salaries of its employees. At the same time, they are not sure that they will be able to increase their membership with this money. At present, the aim is to maintain the staff so far. However, the issue of the payroll fund for these workers will be one of the topics in the debate on the country's budgetary strategy in the coming weeks. The Minister of the Interior has confirmed that one of the priorities is to raise the pay of rescue workers. This does not mean that raising the pay of police officers is not important , it is also important, too, for the police to raise the pay of police officers, and for the police to raise the pay of police officers, the I've been talking to Andres Anvelt about this, and, of course, it's one of the keys to help solve this issue. Your third question to me was about the National Defence Academy. Any developments that take place at the Academy of Internal Defence must ensure that the quality of education is maintained and improved. No change can be a goal if the quality of learning falls. I think the cooperation between the PBA and the National Defence Academy is pretty good right now. On the one hand, we can give these people vocational education, on the other hand, higher education and, thirdly, internship experience in Ida-Virumaa. You referred to confusion, different opinions regarding the National Defence Academy. Of course, the final decision needs to be made as soon as possible, but the government does not do it rashly. I have answered questions on this subject several times in this Question Time. I have referred to the need for a first step in the area of curriculum, funding, state security and security. Once they're all done, the government will discuss it. It's already happening this week.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U205	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U206	Thank you. Our maritime surveillance and also our protection capabilities are, to put it mildly, low. There are some positive signs, but there is also a great deal of warning and negative. One example is certainly the naval base of the border guard fleet on Süsta Street in Tallinn, which is almost ideal in terms of border surveillance and other internal security indicators. I mean, both responsiveness and possible attacks from the sea. Now the PBA is planning to sell it and move the border guard fleet. Do you think that abandoning and moving the navy base will increase the rescue and other capabilities of the border guard fleet? If so, what is the specific expression?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U207	Thank you for this important question. I think you mean leaving the Border Guard Harbor and becoming a new location, as I said in my inquiry, the Miniport and Wolfhead Harbour territory. We must take into account that if the PBGB were to remain in the Border Guard Port, investments should be made that are not small in order to renovate it. I'm telling you about a personal experience. Ten years ago, Estonia had the opportunity to receive funding from the European Union for the development of the Mine Port, and then a fierce dispute broke out between the state and the city on the subject of building permit and planning process. It lasted quite a few months. Luckily, I had a chance to contribute to the release of the permit. At the time, the Ministry of Defence was the applicant, the money arrived in Estonia, and the Port of Mine was built. I think that cooperation between the various authorities at the new location is certainly better and resources are also being used more wisely. So, in answering your question, I assure you that I will in any case support this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U208	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U209	Thank you, good vice chairman. And good spring to you too, Prime Minister! The question is this: what does it legally and practically mean that Estonia does not have a military structure to guard the border, only a civil structure? With regard to NATO bases, NATO is a military organisation, the exchange of information on intelligence issues is becoming more and more common. Could there be a problem here? And are there any problems with Frontex that we have a civilian border guard structure?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U210	First of all, the question of Frontex. Here, I think it is quite appropriate to mention the main tasks of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency in order to understand what it is at all. One of the tasks is to establish a strategy for implementing integrated border management at Union level. Secondly, to monitor the functioning of border controls at external borders. Thirdly, to provide more technical and operational assistance to Member States for the surveillance of external borders, including search and rescue of distressed persons through joint operations and rapid border interventions. Fourthly, to ensure the practical use of measures in a situation requiring urgent action at the external borders. And fifthly, organise, coordinate and carry out return operations and other return-related activities. Your question was, is there any problem, that we are dealing with a civilian structure? No, I don't see a problem here. Estonia has all the necessary institutions. You referred to the arrival of NATO units in Estonia. I guess you mean Tapa and spring of this year. I think this is a good example of how military cooperation is being carried out in NATO. If there are 1,200 British and French soldiers on Estonia's soil, whose rotation is at one point replaced by Danish soldiers, this is, in my opinion, a good example of Estonia's ability. I've been to Tapa myself. Yes, there is still a need for the state to invest in order, above all, to improve municipal conditions, and these investments we will do. Killa is ready to receive conscripts, accommodate them, and cater for them. I don't see any duplication here. On the contrary, I see that security and defence cooperation between the European Union and NATO has improved. Dialogue and discussion on this matter are at a very high level, both at the NATO Secretary-General level and at the European Council level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U211	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U212	Mr. Prime Minister! Europe has just learned a great deal of experience that has not occurred since the ancient migration of peoples, when tens of thousands of people crossed national borders for various reasons and wiped out all kinds of border guards. God has been holding us so far, but I think there is basically a chance that there will either be some kind of Oriental refugees coming across our eastern border by thousands or that hundreds of thousands of people from the east will start moving relatively quickly, either because of some kind of natural disaster or even because of a nuclear power plant disaster. Does the Estonian state have plans to act in such situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U213	Thank you, Mr. Adams! You painted us a very concerned theoretically possible picture. You were talking about a nuclear accident and a natural disaster. Does Estonia have plans? Yeah, there are plans, I'm sure they are. But it's always a question of how well these plans work if these things really happen. How well does national internal cooperation and cooperation work with our partners, who must at one point help to secure the external borders of the European Union and NATO? The plans are, however, and the threat assessments have been taken into account. And not only will the risk assessments be reviewed every year and the scenarios will be reviewed. So the key question is, how well when theory becomes practice, these plans work. That's the main thing. But as you very sweetly said, thank God these things have not happened so far. Let's hope it doesn't happen in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U214	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U215	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I'm asking about the border countries. In the Republic of Finland, it was known that the public was quite unpleasantly surprised when it became clear that the border areas there of strategic importance did not belong to Finnish citizens. Do our border areas belong to Estonian citizens? Has it been checked, and do you consider such a check necessary?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U216	You can see where we are going from the subject of the future of border guards to property reform. But I agree that, of course, this question is part of it. What can I tell you? I cannot tell you, as a percentage, how many of our border countries belong to Estonian citizens. There is also the question, by this area, whether you mean 5 kilometers from the border, 10 kilometers, 15 kilometers or, I don't know, 47 kilometers. But if you want to get an overview like this, you're definitely going to get it. But this information, how many percent of the countries there belong to the citizens of Estonia, how many percent to the citizens of another, third, fourth or fifth country, I do not have today. Is this even a matter of principle? I think that in this sense, if we build the border, it is natural that the country must belong to the state. Many buyout processes have been completed, some are still under way. I have been asked here in the Riigikogu, and I think it was a member of your group, the amount of money that has been allocated from the state budget. But if you want to know exactly how it is, I can give you that information after a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U217	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U218	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! I would now come from the border issue to regional policy. If one of the government's goals is to develop regional policy, how much have you worked to strengthen the border communities where, in principle, each person has a border guard approach? How much cooperation will be done, for example, with volunteers at the sea border to involve them in pollution response or monitoring?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U219	Thank you. In replying to this, only congratulations can be given to your group first. When I had the opportunity to take office, I said many times that no idea, no good initiative can be redundant. It's the same example I've given before. Mr Adams grabbed my sleeve at one point and said Setumaa was a problem, creating a Setomaa rural municipality raises questions. In fact, this is also a border area, so the question is related to today's subject. But that is how the opinions of the local community were seriously heard. As far as your direct question is concerned, you know very well that there is a need to increase the capacity for voluntary marine rescue. After all, you are one of those who personally deal with this in order to contribute to the efficiency of this work in Estonia, together with your community. If your question was how important I consider this area to be, I will say that it is very important. This is also demonstrated by one of the many positive steps taken by this government. Indeed, at the end of last year, when the government coalition was formed, we had quite a little time to design the budget, but one of the emphasis in the area of internal security was to support free squirts. This is one example of many. On the other hand, the strengthening of new and larger local authorities, including the strengthening of border authorities, is important. So we have taken concrete steps: increasing the revenue base of local governments, additional support for voluntary rescuers, which was included in the budget, as well as cooperation with the voluntary sector or communities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U220	Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the first person to be heard is the representative of the heirs or the successor to the Riigikogu, and then everyone else can express their opinion. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U221	Good vice chairman! Thank you for your answers to the Prime Minister. The subject is well-emotional, and my brief conclusion is that this emotionality has arisen from a great lack of awareness during the period of government. Yes, emotionality arose in 2007, when structural changes were made hastily and hastily, without providing sufficient explanations and solutions. The concerns of the Estonian people about the stability and security of the state have become particularly topical due to various events. The unexpected kidnapping of the Eston Suitcase in the border area signaled to each of us that anything could happen without protection and without a contribution. The migration crisis in the European Union has had a major impact. At some point, of course, a good reason for everything is that there is no money. The whole area of security would actually need more money. While the percentage of GDP allocated to this area is changing because of all economic factors, the sums of money generally do not change, and that, I dare say, is a problem for all NATO Member States. Yeah, the lively debate goes on inside the Free Party. Whether to re-establish a separate border guard office or to solve the problem so that the Police and Border Guard Board has a very clear border guard unit, which would mean a specific leader who would not be subject to the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board but would also be independent. We will certainly analyse all this and look again at the answers we have received today, but I very much liked the opinion of Artur Talvik, who referred to the topic of communities, that we must all stand together for our own security. This means that we must make every effort to make sure that our people survive throughout Estonia dispersed, that people are also present in rural areas and border areas, so that we do not fear to protect our people in different situations, so that, for example, in the event of a natural disaster, we feel united. And for that, I think, more explaining work is needed from ministers and also from the Police and Border Guard Board on border guards. Public awareness and trust in the state must grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U222	Martin Helme. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U223	Dear Deputy Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will first read out a short paragraph of the Centre Party's programme for the 2015 parliamentary elections. The slogan of the elections was 'Let's do it differently! '. The programme also includes an action plan on security policy for 2015/2019. Point 1: We will complete the Estonian border according to the Schengen standard. Point 2: We will strengthen the Estonian border guard to ensure border protection and, if necessary, to provide armed first reaction, we will restore the Border Guard Board. Well, after today's performance, there's no doubt that this is another turn of heel for the Central Party. In opposition, the dissatisfaction of various social groups with the government in office was plucked on, but no intention of taking power had been fulfilled then and not now. There's not even pretending to do something different anymore. Now, a couple of things that really bothered me. One is a fact that not only concerns border guards, but almost all areas in Estonia. We are constantly told that volunteers must do this, the second, the third and the fourth: to clean the sea, to guard the border, to provide education, and I do not know what else. My question is: dear people, what are we paying taxes for? Why the hell do we have to keep this country on our taxes when citizens have to do a lot of things for the country for free? Don't take that liver away from me! I'll do something for free. Let's make a schedule, I'm doing volunteer work three days a week instead of paying taxes. But right now, they're trying to eat two. The second thing that really bothered me during this whole round of questions and answers: there were slogans that had nothing to do with reality. The claim that we will strengthen border surveillance year after year is not true. The border is unguarded in the east and south as well as in the sea. We have a few sections where relatively fine border infrastructure has been built. We've got a few passages where the brush has been cut off, but there's a new one growing up. But the fact is that we have an Estonian-Russian border, which is not guarded by kilometres, where every once in a while a patrol gets by in some sections. Not all places are even covered by the monitoring system. To tell you that we don't have the money for all of this is a mystery. Tens and tens of millions of euros have been set up in border infrastructure over recent years. This year, too, like the huge amount allocated to border surveillance investments, these investments will continue in the coming years. That's not true! But it is true that the salaries of internal security personnel are among the lowest in the public sector at all. The truth is also that in the last five years, the largest number of posts have been lost in the area of internal security, and there have been fewer not only police officers, but also rescue officers and border guards. During the previous government, we made it clear that more than EUR 30 million would be needed each year from the state budget for such a really functioning border guard as we had in the 1990s and also at the beginning of this century. This money will not be found in Estonia. That money just can't be found! Instead, we're being told about some planes and boats. By the way, I would remind you that this border guard or surveillance aircraft spends one month of the year not on the Estonian border, but somewhere in the Mediterranean. This is European solidarity. We are guarding the borders of richer countries, such as Greece, Italy or Spain. Again, I ask: why do I get paid when I collect taxes? What are we paying for? That's absurd! The biggest question mark for me, however, is whether we are talking about the same things. The Prime Minister claims that armed border guards will not increase Estonia's security. I wonder how he increased in the 1990s. Why Finns still place special emphasis on armed border guards, there are reserves, there are hiding places, is the ability to switch to guerrilla activities. It used to increase the security of the country, but today we have a new political theorem: no more. This is not all credible, and we will get back to the beginning: nothing else will be done. It will be done as the previous governments have done. But the flesh and skin have long been cut off from the bones. With what is left, Estonia's security will no longer be guaranteed. Border crossings are not controlled, there is no ability to manage large populations in crisis situations. There is no answer to this question, which asked Jüri Adams, what will happen if some avalanche of people from Russia suddenly starts to cross over to us? Nothing's gonna happen. They're just gonna come. I'm sure we have a plan in case we put people on board ships and send them to Sweden. In fact, we do not have a border guard, nor do we intend to be guarded. That's our conclusion after today's question. And this is another one of the heels that the Centre Party has made as it moves from opposition to government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U224	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U225	Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First, let me be clear. Before, there was a discussion of the places of employment: that certain cordons of service had been formed. I'm gonna tell you a little bit about how this happened. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U226	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U227	In Finland, a base cordon was formed a little less than a decade ago, and both sides of it replaced small cordons. In the beginning of 2014, two of our geniuses visited one of the Eastern and South Prefectures in Finland, and they were introduced to the Finnish border guard system. They were also told about the base cordon and these positions of service that these were former small cordons. Unfortunately, the Finns forgot to explain to these two men that Finland has not been in the Soviet Union, but Estonia has been and the infrastructure of our roads has been shared with the neighbouring country. We have it that no matter whether the road comes from the Russian side or it goes from the Estonian side to the border, the road continues on the other side. In Finland, there is only one road to the border, where there is a border crossing point, and no more of you go to the border. The roads are miles away from the border. Secondly, Finns also have a border regime in place many years ago. There is a special regime in the border zone. These prefects themselves did not share it, came back from Finland to Elmar, explained that we could save, and police thought quickly this savings was made. That's the way things are. Mr. Prime Minister, you could have come to ask me, I would have told you before. Under the leadership of the Director-General of the Police Department, a new large-scale campaign called the transition to a group-based structure has been launched. I myself do not know exactly the structure of the police authorities, but the border guard has used reasonable and logical structures since the old days. The logic of border guard structures is based on a military system: the team, section, group, company. The Panel shall have its own parent, who shall coordinate and organise the activities of the Border Guard Team, between two and three border guards. The next section is the exchange in the border guard language, etc. It's as simple as that. The Director-General of the PBGB claims that a person can move up and down the professional ladder as he pursues a career in a horizontal way. According to his understanding, moving down is perfectly normal. At the same time, the person has also been left with the choice of redundancy. In the police system, it may be perfectly normal, but I doubt the words of this man. When a person was taken down at the border guard on the service ladder, this was only a punishment and was fixed in a letter of order, which also stated the reason for placing the person in a lower position. We were talking about the Southeast Police Department earlier. When the Southeast Police Department was set up, two policemen chose to lay off because their wages were reduced. I am sure that these were younger men who did not agree to a reduction in wages and left the system. Fifteen more policemen lost their pay, but they remained in the service. I can tell you that those 15 men were older policemen who had five years or less to retire. The current law provides that a police officer must have been in the service for at least the last five years before retirement. This law is specifically made like this. You remember that I proposed a year and a half ago to change this regulation like in the Defence Forces. A certain number of comrades opposed, disagreed. There's no such nonsense in the law in the case of military service. Man deserves his years, gets out of service before retirement age, gets old and starts ticking his pension. In the case of the police, the law is such that it is possible to bag a person for the last few years and he would not be able to say anything in return. I don't understand what's going on in our country at all. Looking at history, in 2004 the destruction of the border guard's national defence capabilities began. More specifically, the only capacity of the Estonian state for indwelling was destroyed. The Finnish border guard had trained our border guards in full for the activities of the guerrilla, the junior officers, the officers. We had our own reserves of conscripts who had only been trained as a young soldier, and the rest had all been trained as a guerrilla. You were your reserve units, even through one of the reservists. When it was taken from the border guard, it was tried to get smeared to the Defence League for a moment, but it didn't work out, of course. Clearly, the Defence League is voluntary, one day a man exists, the other day is not. Sizzling is a serious thing. Nothing can be done against volunteering. In 2014, the border guard of the Russian Federation changed its structural structure again. The idea was that more military leadership was needed in order to achieve a better defence capability at the borders of the country. We here in Estonia have constantly reduced our chances. Who will take responsibility in the near future if we discover that the former border guard cordons and border crossing points of the eastern border can do nothing but formulate protocols and resolve family disputes? I urge you, Prime Minister, to think seriously and look around the country and then decide whether to start a praise or to start working seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U228	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U229	Good President! Good Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I was encouraged by Martin Helme's story to come to this remote control. I was amazed at his social democratic view of life: I am the taxpayer and there is some kind of abstract country somewhere, let him offer me a service. The Free Party is quite different from its approach, based on a different principle. We believe that, in a transferred sense, each of us, every citizen in our country, is the guardian of our borders. We want Estonia to be a strong civil society made up of strong communities. Naked like that, we say we pay our taxes and give us a service, but these things don't go. That doesn't mean the border guard's okay. Because of the great change that the PBA made within it, rather because the police and border guards were merged, what Uno Kaskpeit was talking about here really happened. The border guard lost its professionalism and also the ability to fight sissy, which he talked about here for a long time. Ideally, the picture should be such that top professionals are provided at national level, i.e. the border guard unit should be made up of top professionals. But this unit cooperates with volunteers and local communities, which are part of border surveillance. As a voluntary marine rescuer, acting with his association at the sea and having a maritime rescue agreement with the PBA, I can assure you that no step has been taken in this direction to exploit the resource that volunteers have at the sea. Knowing the local coastal sea well, they could also contribute to monitoring and pollution response, which some teams have learned voluntarily. There's basic knowledge. But the PBA doesn't want to hand over these tasks. And one more thing I'd like to pay attention to. As a result of the merger, the professionalism of the border guard's management disappeared or, let's say, decreased because the border guard was pushed to the level of the 'department'. This approach is not right. Anyway, from a distance, it looks like the police wanted to give their people more priority than the border guards. As a result, this has had an impact on the professionalism of border guards. Finally, our ideal model is for border guards to regain their professionalism. Because of me, he may be inside the PBA, but the border guard should have the right to run itself again. At the moment, the police have this right. And border guards should work very closely with border communities. The government, however, should ensure that the border communities are strong and also cooperate with border guards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U230	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U231	President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! Colleagues! In principle, I agree with Artur that volunteers play a very important role in ensuring that our lives are safe, that things work in society, that citizens are involved in the activities of the state at grassroots level. But all areas still need specialists, training, a certain inventory, equipment, whatever. You, Artur, may be a good volunteer marine rescuer, but I don't think you'd be an equally good E.R. doctor or something third, fourth, fifth. I mean, we cannot expect citizens to voluntarily and without maintaining and raising their daily qualifications, improving their inventory and so on to do what nationally developed and funded structures are for. They may be a backup, but they can't be the main force. I wanted to get this over with. Let me give you an example. There's still a pretty good bunch of people left here, even though it's late in the evening. Now, let's imagine we're being sent as volunteers to an American airline factory today. Trump's gonna transport us there on an American plane and tell us that as volunteers, you can work in this plane factory for a few days now. It's an aircraft factory where it takes about 500 different details to assemble the plane, maybe even more. Every hour, the plane comes off the conveyor at this factory. What would we honourable members of the Riigikogu do in this factory as volunteers? Nothing. This is an example of life itself: as volunteers, we can do a lot of things, but we can't do everything. At the same time, I don't want to make it look like the opposition is settling the score and blaming each other. These were more of an additional thought for Artur Talvik's speech. In fact, I want to emphasise what has already been said here. In fact, our border is very badly protected. This is shown by the fact that we occasionally find Vietnamese, starving Somalis or other people who have come to the territory of the Republic of Estonia without the knowledge of our border guards. And they've found somewhere to grunt food or shelter the local residents, who fortunately are still in rural areas. Not everyone has come to Tallinn on public service bread. This clearly shows, however, that the so-called eastern border of NATO, the so-called 'Eastern border of Schengen', is not well enough, even with every available technique, to be observed, much less protected. That's a fact. The Prime Minister may say that this is not true, but it is true. We still read the papers from time to time, and there's news of incidents like this. As far as our maritime capabilities are concerned, if we do not say the Russian submarine, say the Swedish submarine, wants to enter the port of Muuga, he can travel to the berth of this deep port and rise to the surface of the water without being able to be identified by the border guard of the Republic of Estonia first. We can't see anything going on underwater. We can't see what's going on on the water, and it's been cut, but we can't see what's going on down there at all. If someone says it's a guarded border, they'll understand the guarded border somewhat poorly. We could give more examples like this. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U232	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U233	I'll give you an example of what's going on above us in the air. The border interventions of Russian aircraft are legendary and have been repeated for many years. We'll be able to fix it with radar, but it's a little short of some single plane that guards the border and more fixes all kinds of marine pollution. These are just examples that in essence we have adopted the path of reconciliation, that, in the event of a serious conflict, we will not be able to defend our borders with this border guard anyway. We'd rather save money on it and hope nothing happens. That's the mentality. I admit, of course, that the Prime Minister of this government is not responsible for all these things. Indeed, he is a prime minister for only four months and the tracks along which the train is moving have been laid down years ago, in 2004, as my colleague Uno Kaskpeit said, when the gradual dismantling of the border guard began. However, I do put the honourable Prime Minister's heart at heart that there is a promise on your electoral platform to restore the border guard structure as an independent agency. And when it is restored, it automatically results that the Agency is going to be involved in the assembly of units and the generation of capabilities. It's just logically programmed in. And now for the end. In the 1990s the Republic of Estonia was young and poor. But we had enough money to create a border guard to set up a rescue service to create all kinds of defence structures, the Defence League, etc., not to mention building a national economy and building an educational system on a new footing to turn Soviet propaganda institutions into real educational institutions. We can give examples of all areas of life where we literally started to create a new life. It was all very expensive, but the poor Republic of Estonia found the means for all of this. We are now a Member State of the rich European Union since 2004. We have received a considerable amount of support every year, but we are still so poor! In the old days, we had a constable in every area, now we no longer have police in many places, we no longer have border guards, we no longer have emergency services in the form it was. What's happened? Why are we impoverished? This is a question for a large circle of rich and successful people in Estonia, which is aspiring to a welfare society in the European Union. That's the question that stays in the air here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U234	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U235	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U236	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U237	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to talk about a couple of points that are pretty little related to each other. First of all, there wasn't a merger between the Police and Border Guard Board yesterday, that was a long time ago. Many kinds of state agencies, let's say, have quite a lot been done in Estonia. Some of them have been justified and some probably not. But the general rule is that in the first few years there will be a certain setback, but after a while people who didn't like the change will somehow calm down. In the case of our border guards, it is completely incomprehensible to me that a year goes by, but there seems to be no calming down. Looks like the irritation's growing. First of all, for very different political reasons, the people who developed the border guard during the restored independence of Estonia have not calmed down. They don't like the current regime. I don't know exactly why. Perhaps they have not been sufficiently recognised personally. But no matter what the reason, it's bad. Here, Prime Minister, the ministers in this area probably have failed to do anything at least in public relations. But in any case, this problem will not go away by itself. I've been talking to people, and I have to admit, what they say about all this is pretty weird. There are people who, for one reason or another, left work after this unification and now, afterwards, claim to the whole world: their former work has been turned upside down, it has lost meaning. There are also quite a number of people who are currently working at the Police and Border Guard Board and say that they absolutely don't like the way they have to work. They are run from one task to another. They see no sense in their existence, and if they did not have to serve their families, they would likely be handshaking and going away. Why did it turn out like that? It shouldn't be like this in one country, but it's gone. That's the first thing. The second issue is the questions that will remain with us forever and which relate to the old Estonian border, i.e. the Estonian border, which was between the two world wars. The point is that in our border treaty and other European and domestic games, we tend to make a face, or rather, our governments have constantly made a face as if there were no problems. These problems exist. We'll always be sent by this question. We didn't have a presidential election until recently, if you remember. Where did one of our strongest presidential candidates come from? Komarovka village from Ingerimaa. Let's think about how this border has come to the Narva River by now! Listen, ever since the Swedish authorities took over this land, Narva and Jaani City were the same town. Nobody thought it might be broken up. This situation lasted until 1944. These are the facts and the facts are based on people of a number of nationalities and languages, all of whom have legitimate personal and cultural interests in this territory. On the south side, the situation may be even more marked. Almost all the people whose ancestors lived before 1941 in the eastern part of Petseri County have moved to Estonia. How many of them are Setus and Russians and Estonians living there? This figure is likely to reach about 100,000 at this point. The furthest eastern cultural interest of the Setus relates to the church of Mõla, next to Vana-Irboska, where there is one of the largest eastern cemeteries and where there has always been a gathering. These things need to be dealt with. This situation, which is now that some people cannot cross the border at all and others have basically only two crossings at the southeast border, is not practical. The third point I would like to touch on very briefly is that we can hardly manage our border affairs with paid and professional border guards only. We need to unite volunteers using, for example, an analogy with our institution of auxiliary police officers, etc. It would very much be necessary, Prime Minister, to think about where we can get help from people who can be used temporarily or permanently. We need to get people to work. The last point is the question I put to the Prime Minister. The possibility of border disasters exists; they can come in many different ways. If this was the last major crisis in Europe, whether it was with the support of the Russian Government or independently of its will, or against its will, but a number of people wanted to go to Scandinavia and managed to gather at the northern tip of the Russian border far away and quite several hundred of them broke through to northern Norway. That's the kind of thing we need to be prepared for. We could have this wave coming from any direction. I'm not talking about the fact that we have a dangerous nuclear power plant nearby. And there could be other things. We may also, in principle, be threatened with the risk that our country will have to deal with its small population in order to organise life for perhaps several hundred thousand, perhaps even more refugees who will need help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U238	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! I'm glad to see the Prime Minister is in a happy mood and isn't tired yet. But there is no reason to be happy when dealing with the situation. Since it's already been for the speeches, it never hurts to visit. I want to mark three points of view here and to speak briefly and specifically, because the evening promises to be long. First thing: heel turns. As our group's chairman, Martin Helme, has also mentioned, in the case of the Centre Party, a change in everyday politics is no longer a new phenomenon, but rather a daily tradition. This can be said, starting with, for example, Rail Baltic and the completion of the administrative reform and ending with the question of border guards currently being discussed. In the election programme, on the basis of which tens of thousands of people chose the Centre Party, hope was given that if the Centre Party formed a government, the border guard would be restored in its original form. Now the Centre Party has withdrawn from it, and unfortunately it doesn't surprise any of us anymore. But that's what it is. At least we will do everything in our power to remind your voters in the next elections so that they know who to choose. The second thing I want to mark is the voluntary contribution. The thousands of people who volunteer in the Defence League, who in the Rescue Department, who as an assistant police officer and who are elsewhere, are invaluable. They have sacrificed their time and energy and may have compromised their security to ensure the safety of all of us. The work they do is truly invaluable. In this hall, I can count on the fingers of two hands the people who, in their spare time, contribute to our security. One of them is Artur Talvik, who deserves praise. I must also note that the best that can be done here is to set an example. I have now come to my mind a parallel with the previous Minister of Defence, Hannes Hanso, who told us a few months ago about the security of Estonia, the development of the state's defence capabilities and the development plan for national defence until 2022. I asked this question: 'What department of the Defence League are you a member of, Mr. Hanso? " His answer was that he contributed to Estonia's defence capability 24 hours a day. I don't know how, in any case, not through volunteering. Here's my appeal to the good Prime Minister. If you're not volunteering in an organization yet, come on! On March 27th, the volunteer relief police class will begin, where I will be present. Come on, gang up! It's more fun to act together. Together we volunteer to contribute to Estonia's security in Tallinn! You are also welcome to the Defence League. But I'm sure you'll understand my irony, the volunteers aren't the ones we have to put on to ensure the safety of the whole country. Volunteers are involved in patriotism and desire to do something about it, but the state cannot build our defence capabilities, our internal security and our border guards on a voluntary basis. In the end, however, it is still a question of where we take this money, so as not to put all the responsibility on the volunteers. I have a good proposal. Minister Ligi used to love to say, "Show me the sources of cover where we take this money! You have nothing to show! ' But it is to be shown. Last year, Estonia was the sixth contributor to the European Union's operations in the Mediterranean through Frontex and EUNAVFOR. Sixth country out of 28! I think this is where we can pinch a pretty polite amount and direct it to improve the living conditions of police and border guards working on the border between Estonia and the Russian Federation in Narva. It has been a problem for years that money has not been found in the budget. How do we solve this? There is a specific proposal. There is a need to increase the popularity of border guard work, to provide them with better tools and stronger motivation? Please, let's improve their living conditions in Narva! Let us not spend money on patrol and hunting tens of thousands of migrants anywhere in the Mediterranean Sea. Let us spend our taxpayers' money on guarding the Schengen and the European Union's external borders on our country's eastern borders. Thank you and your strength!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U240	Next, please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U241	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! I came here by remote control, driven by the lines of Artur Talvik, to see how well-known Martin Helme claimed that if I paid taxes, I would have to get services for it. Artur Talvik noted that this is a very socialist position. So that this message does not sound wrong: it is a social democracy that those who do not pay taxes, such as children and pensioners, also receive services. In other words, the service must be provided by anyone who needs it. I would also like to comment on the fact that volunteering is also very much done in the social system. Most of these people are not in the Defence Forces, Border Guards, Defence Leagues or as volunteers on the Coast Guard. These volunteers offer their help as non-formal carers, for example, and this contribution is invaluable. If they were to finish this work one day, much would not be done in the social system. Yes, in the areas covered by this board, volunteering stands out, and that is what is worth recognition and praise. But there are areas where people give help because of their hearts and they don't ask what the country gives me for it. They're just wondering how they can help the country. Today we've all talked about what we should do. This discussion in the Riigikogu Hall is very good. If I'd listened to it from my office, maybe I wouldn't have come here. But if even one Social Democrat is in the Chamber, I cannot fail to point out that the Social Democrats believe that all those who need help, whether they pay taxes or are young enough to pay, or so old that they no longer pay, must receive it. Thank you and have a nice spring for us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U242	Thank you. I wish us all a beautiful spring too! I do not see any more requests for speeches from members of the Riigikogu, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again for a chair of speech. Please, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U243	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Once again, thank you for raising the subject. I'll start with what George Adams said. I think there was a very big grain of truth in his story. People who have developed border guards before Estonia regained independence, and who have done this work in 1990-2007, like you, Mr Kaskpeit, certainly deserve greater recognition. There's no doubt about that, and I've said it before. However, if it is a matter of sin that the EKRE is trying to blame the Centre Party with all sorts of power, then of course I have to answer as the chairman of the party. When it comes to why the Centre Party went to government and what it is doing in government, I assure you that our aim is to increase equality in society, increase daily incomes, more solidarity pensions and inclusive economic growth that reaches every person. The aim is to increase the number of Estonian residents so that the Estonian people find work and suitable accommodation and to create their own family here in Maarja County, so that the people who left here return to their homeland, to increase their coherence and to eliminate the constant confrontation between Tallinn and rural areas, to end the compartmentalisation of people on the basis of their sex, age or nationality, and to make our people feel that Estonia is their homeland. These are the concrete things that we are implementing in the government. These include tax reform, pension reform, increasing the role of municipalities, granting farmers full support, increasing teachers' salaries and public investments, whether broadband, infrastructure, defence or Tallinn City Hall. EKRE has quite skilfully said that there is already a bush growing on the border, that we have miles where the border is not guarded. He claims that we pay foreign bills because we have to pay for the solidarity of the European Union. We do not have miles where the border is not guarded, where the Estonian border is not guarded, where the NATO border is not guarded or where the external borders of the European Union are not guarded. We're guarding our borders. All right, if you want to say that European solidarity is not important, it would also be fair to say that it is not important for the free movement of people, the free movement of capital, the free movement of services and the free movement of goods. The debate should still be opened! Therefore, stronger cooperation in defence and economic matters, and the four freedoms I have mentioned, are not important to you. Estonia stands by ensuring the fifth freedom in the European Union: the free movement of data, digital freedom, which is increasingly important every day. I think you should talk about all these things. Now, the question was what the government has done in the area of security, including border protection. We have continued the work that the previous government began to build up the border. Of course we will continue to do so. Yes, we contribute more to bringing the police to rural areas. It's important, as I said in my inquiry. This is particularly important for regional development. I also said that today's government is contributing more money and people to increasing the police's rapid response capability. And for us, it is also important that volunteer rescuers get more resources. We are investing in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U244	Thank you to the Prime Minister. The answer to the fifth question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U245	The sixth question has been submitted by Riigikogu members Andres Herkel, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Jüri Adams, Artur Talvik and Ain Lutsepp and concerns the failure of administrative reform in Pärnu County. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U246	Mr President! Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This question not only concerns the issue of Sauga rural municipality, which may have been the most obvious, because there has been the most obvious struggle by the local community against nonsense, which has allowed the essence of the city of Pärnu to be joined by villages no longer, but by almost districts and suburbs with other municipalities which are far beyond the direction of Tori and Sind. That the Prime Minister, together with the Minister of Public Administration, was present on the weekend and actually started answering our questions in the 'Actual Camera', could be considered to be the result of more local community activity, but it certainly also points to the issues marked in our inquiry. Unfortunately, the talk we heard when we were watching the screen, perhaps the beginning of the answer to the question was anything but encouraging. You said there's about a law that sets certain limits on us and there's nothing you can do about it. Maybe next year, but no way now. We do not understand from the outset why a reform as far-reaching as the administrative reform must be based on such a model that no correction of errors is envisaged at all. It is clear that there are contradictions in this law; there are shortcomings in this law. In the final phase of the administrative reform, as we have offered to the government, decisions can be made more smoothly and can indeed be resolved by the problems of geographically strange entities and the problems of the'self-determination' of villages or changing the status of self-governance. There are many of them in Estonia. But last week, we learned the truth from the Minister for Public Administration when we specifically addressed one of these problems. He told us that the government had so agreed that nothing would be changed in this law. That's a very bad deal. Now, as regards Sauga, which is only enough to look at the map, if you look at the future map of the municipalities of Pärnu County, there are questions about how the city of Pärnu can be, that the city of Pärnu will also include the Tõstamaa, which is at the time of compulsory integration, and that, from Paikuse on the other hand, up to the Kõpu bogs in Viljandi County, large agricultural areas will be included. And on the other hand, those areas near the city of Pärnu, they can't fit into the city of Pärnu and move somewhere else? As indicated, the logic of this reform has created similar problems in many parts of Estonia, but Pärnu's map is the most bizarre. It really does not make sense why the Centre Party, whose presidential candidate went around the country and promised to stop the administrative reform, is now not taking any step to stop these nonsenses. You admit that there are problems, but there's nothing you can do about it. And this is where our questions come from. We hope that the Prime Minister will also pay attention to the answers given by the Chancellor of Justice today. He admitted that the regulations for changing self-governing status are complex, clumsy and difficult to understand, even to the highly qualified lawyers of the Chancellor of Justice's office, to talk about those people directly affected. We also expect a message from you about community policy. Municipalities are of course important, but people in these municipalities are even more important. The signals coming from Sauga are extremely demoralizing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U247	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U248	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. At the same time, I don't really understand why sometimes the inquisitors are even kind of a bit of an attack. It's worth taking things in a spirit of cooperation. Once again, I believe that the coalition and the opposition should not have strong walls. On the contrary, let us cooperate! As Mr Herkel, President of the Free Party, said, many thanks to you were paid a visit to Sauga this Saturday. Thanks for that. This is how cooperation should take place. In my opinion, no one has any reason to say that the Free Party and the government are not cooperating well. You have raised an important subject. You have certainly met people on the ground and have now brought the problem to this honourable Riigikogu. Today we are debating this issue in this Chamber. It's very important. In any case, I agree with your opinion that taking into account local people is the most important thing. But I'll start. There are six main issues in total, but there will certainly be further questions. I'd love to answer them, too. The first question: 'According to § 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act, local residents have the right to initiate local visits. At this stage of administrative reform, do you see that the inhabitants of the villages of Sauga and Tahkuranna rural municipality have any way of defining their belongings, because the current municipalities have no motivation to allow separation and they are working against the wishes of the villagers? 'The transfer of a part of the territory shall be the decision-making power of the council. According to the Administrative Reform Act, the Government of the Republic has the right to initiate proceedings for the transfer of a part of the territory only if, in addition to the citizens' initiative, this is necessary to meet the minimum size criterion of the municipality. What does that mean? According to § 3 of the Administrative Reform Act, this criterion is at least 5000 inhabitants. This means that in the framework of the reform, the government can only initiate the transfer of villages, where the municipality receiving the villages would then, in a specific case, fulfil the limit of 5000 inhabitants of Pärnu. However, the city of Pärnu fulfils the minimum size criterion now, and even after accession, without any additional part of the territory, and the government therefore has no reason to initiate the transfer of the part of the territory. If the procedure for the transfer of villages is to be completed this year, the decisions of the local council, together with the required documentation, must be submitted to the county governor no later than six months before the regular election day of the local government council. This is April 15th, 2017. The general principle of the current administrative reform is that administrative reform is carried out by local communities, local authorities, local people through their elected councils in 2013. Question 2: "What is your recommendation to the residents of Sauga, who have expressed their wish to join the city of Pärnu? Do you see any real legal possibilities for realizing your wish, because today only the same municipal council that naturally does not want the villages to leave its rural municipality? ' In the event that the transfer of the part of the territory fails during the administrative reform and this year, the residents of Sauga municipality may propose to the new council of the merged municipality of Tori. At the moment, we need to talk about possible separation from the compound municipality, i.e. the municipality of Tori, including the municipalities of Sindi, Tori, Sauga and Are. The separation of Sauga rural municipality villages may not be in accordance with the interests of Tori rural municipality, as this would eliminate nearly 85% of Sauga's population and leave almost an empty territory. This raises new questions, such as which part of the community municipality will have loans, which will receive the remaining 15% of the population and many other questions. If you answer directly now, I strongly recommend that you think about these questions and consider the decisions from this point of view. The most important thing is to discuss each other's arguments and, of course, the proposals. Question three. 'What position does the Government of the Republic take on an application for the right to self-determination of villages? Will the government meet the people of the villages and consider the wishes of communities/municipals to separate from other municipalities? ' As has already been explained, the transfer of a part of the territory is the decision-making power of the council. The decision-making and competence of the local government council as the local government representative body must also be taken into account. At the local level, the people exercise their power on the basis of the Constitution through representative democracy, or elected representative body. It should be borne in mind that the council represents the whole municipality and all the citizens of the municipality. The Council is a democratically elected representative of the people. On the spot, I can say that when the council's decision was made, the votes were not clearly divided, as in the case of Sauga, so can be said according to the number of coalitions and opposition seats. One of the advantages of democracy is that if elected voters do not like the decisions they have made, it is possible to replace representatives democratically after certain periods, just as it is here in the honourable Riigikogu. I repeat, in carrying out the administrative reform, the government cannot initiate the procedure for the transfer of a part of the territory in these villages, as the city of Pärnu already fulfils the minimum population size criterion. Question 4: 'Looking at the map of the future Pärnu county, we notice, unnaturally, the long-lived municipalities on different weather maps, which are the result of the voluntary merger process and the personal experience of the local government leaders. How do you explain the illogicality that arises after the administrative reform on the map of the municipalities of Pärnumaa, and how do you see the opportunity to improve this unreasonable future administrative division? " Up until 1 January 2017, mergers took place on the initiative of local governments and with elected partners, and the government did not intervene in these agreements. The Government confirmed the requests for changes to the administrative-territorial arrangements submitted in accordance with the local councils' agreements. The negotiations have taken place at local level and have given all parties the opportunity to feel the local interests. I cannot accept the argument that the results of the administrative-territorial reform are due to good or bad relations between the local government leaders of Pärnumaa. After meeting the local government leaders in Pärnumaa in person, I can rather say that the local government leaders get along very well with each other. They have jointly managed to launch a number of accession projects in recent years, which require cooperation on an over-the-counter basis. For example, the public transport centre, the construction of the Pärnumaa Nature House and the fact that all local authorities have contributed to the Lottemaa project. If the municipalities feel in the future that the approved administrative-territorial arrangements should be changed, the municipalities will still have the right to join and also to transfer parts of the territory. Question 5: 'As the city of Pärnu is to be part of a number of agricultural regions, forests, swamps and bogs, has the Government of the Republic analysed what practical problems this situation poses? ' These agricultural areas, forests, swamps and bogs are currently part of the territory of different municipalities and local public services still need to be ensured if there are residents in these areas. Representatives of the municipalities of the agricultural regions, who are well aware of local specificities, are also involved in the new merged municipality. In larger and stronger municipalities, the quality of service provision can only improve. According to Estonian law, towns and rural municipalities are municipalities with equal meaning and the same tasks, so neither the requirements nor expectations of municipalities change according to the type of administrative unit. In addition, the summer has been negotiated with local authorities around Pärnu, and this issue has certainly been discussed. Question 6: 'The current legal space divides municipalities strictly into municipalities and cities, although there are no differences in the public service remit. Such a distribution has caused much confusion during the voluntary accession phase of the administrative reform. Has the government coalition discussed possible constitutional changes, in particular § 155, which says that local government units are municipalities and cities? ' Even after the administrative reform, the responsibilities of municipalities and cities will not be different. In the context of the administrative reform, a distinction must be made between the city's administrative and settlement units. At the stage initiated by the administrative reform councils, it was up to the local councils to decide which type name would be preferred. The municipalities that joined the city could take or maintain the name "city' of the administrative unit formed as a result of the merger, if the merging local authorities so agreed. There have been no discussions on the amendment of the Constitution, including § 155 of the Constitution, and no changes to the name of the local government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U249	Thank you. There are questions for the Prime Minister. First, please, Küllik Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U250	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! Let's talk about principles. You have just confirmed that the larger the municipality, the better the services can be provided. However, you say that if the minimum criterion is met, at least 5 000 inhabitants exist, it is not possible to add new villages. Does this not contradict the view that the larger the municipality, the better the services? In addition, the law recommends that there should be at least 11,000 inhabitants. Don't you see a contradiction here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U251	Thank you. What I said is true. According to the current law, it is really not possible to add these villages if the municipality fulfils the minimum criterion. But larger and more capable municipalities, in my opinion, mean that point one, they are able to provide the highest level of services. Point two, thanks to mergers, the problem of staff will certainly be resolved. The National Audit Office has always referred to the need for us to have as capable people as possible at work in local governments. Point three, the capacity of municipalities to invest in investment projects, either by co-financing or otherwise, will certainly increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U252	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U253	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! When you've been present, how do you evaluate the decisions of Sauga's council? First of all, the council did not discuss the citizens' proposal at all, when it was submitted to the council, but it refused to hold a public survey on joining Pärnu. Can the claim that this cannot be done because something else has been agreed with other municipalities be taken seriously? In my opinion, these villages and communities should under no circumstances be subject to such mutual transactions if they have an opinion on the matter and wish to be discussed by the council of their choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U254	Above all, of course, I am based on the fact that local authorities are autonomous. It cannot be that the Prime Minister or ministers are going to say how they must behave on one issue or another. However, there is a provision in the Local Government Organisation Act that at least one percent of the population must be behind an initiative. Indeed, Saugal has conducted a public survey in at least four or five villages. The law says that if the initiative concerns a council, it must discuss it for at least three months. I understand where the legal dispute is. The question is that if the initiative has fallen into the time before the Council agenda was adopted and it has been said that we will not put it on the agenda, some will say that in this case it has been dealt with. My opinion is that it must be dealt with. It must be dealt with within three months, as prescribed by the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U255	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U256	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As you can see from the TV picture, dozens of people had gathered in Sauga during your visit. It is true, by the way, with Sauga in the third, not in the second, but in the second, I am primordial, and I know, just as it is right in the third, not in the second, in the second, in the Tõstamaa. Such a little detour. You have repeatedly confirmed here that we have democracy and the opinion of the people must be taken into account, but it is quite clear that the opinion of the people is not taken into account there. Most of these people are not in favour of this solution, which will soon be in place. Don't you think the mind of these people needs to be taken into account? So what happens now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U257	First of all, thank you for that language lesson! My roots are also partly in Pärnu County, in the Häädemeeste area. But if you come to this question, I think it is very nice for the local community to be so active in organising their lives and setting future trends, as I saw in front of Sauga Municipality this Saturday. Point two: yes, I think the Prime Minister has to go to places like this. These people protested against the decision of Sauga Vallavolikogu and, of course, I wanted to go there. As your ladies and gentlemen from the Free Party also asked questions about this, I followed the principle that my eye is king. What can we do now? What I said to the parish council members at the meeting and to the residents there. Within the framework of the current law, there is only one possibility, namely that Sauga and Pärnu council will decide before 15 April what will become of these villages. From this point on, we might begin to think about whether such a decision should be made by Sindi, Are and Tori's council or not. I think the question might be raised on the table. Whether it will be reached before April 15th or not, I mean with Sauga and Pärnu Council, I cannot say. Clearly, there is very little time. At the same time, I also said that from the beginning of next year there will be a procedure for the Government of the Republic to decide at the final level. When communities, villages turn to the government and when the government asks the councils for an opinion, the government has the right to decide whether or not the villages are separated at the final level. As far as I know, there have never been such precedents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U258	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First call chair, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U259	Mr. President! Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate on administrative reform, I remembered an article by Kaarel Tarand, where he raised a good question: is the municipality who or the municipality is what? This issue has come up again in the light of the problems we are discussing today. Listening to the Prime Minister's story, it seemed to me that he was talking about the government rather than the thing that was about himself that stood above people and didn't listen to people. We have a council that represents the people he doesn't represent. That's absurd! And this absurdity is getting worse and has been very strongly highlighted in the current administrative reform. The biggest village in Sauga is 3,000 inhabitants, and they say they want to go elsewhere. We are talking about at least 5,000 inhabitants in one area. It says 3,000 people that we want to join the other parish. The council comes together and says, "Honeys, you can't go. Because we're a council and we've decided differently. " I look at Marko Šorin, who with a sad face, with his hands on his cheeks, looks at me. Marko is the former Mayor of Sindi. This is exactly the municipality that Sauga should join. I understand Marko's concern because Sauga is a wealthy region, good taxpayers, people earning money in Pärnu City, whose incomes are good. In this puzzle game, I really understand that the wealth of these people might bring wealth to Tori, Sindi and Are, but it is a question of democracy and whether people are listening or not. One thing is, we're gonna play some chess game somewhere and we're gonna move the buttons around or the checkers and we're gonna move the buttons around. But if a very large proportion of the people in the municipality say that we do not want to be moved as buttons, then we have to take this into account. Regrettably, everyone is stuck in a legislative complex, and Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise acknowledged today that even his highly educated lawyers are not chewing through all the problems of administrative reform. And it doesn't just chew through the fact that people don't really listen. When we drafted amendments to the draft law on administrative reform, we pointed out that it must be done somehow so that the law is structured so that local communities have a mandate to say their word. I'm gonna ask for a little more time if I can!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U260	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U261	Not just to say that you have a village manager there, and you can come and talk to the council, and the council has the right to hear you, but it has no obligation to take account of you. We talked about this, we proposed amendments to the electoral law, we proposed other changes so that local communities could have a say. But the current situation shows that communities have not obtained this right and, worse yet, they are completely left alone. The Sauga people have tried to use all legal options. What is particularly cynical is that this requirement of discussing at least 1% of the population's initiative has not been taken into account. People have proposed to the local government, but this has not been discussed at municipal meetings. Three times has been rejected, has not just been included on the agenda, it has been said that we are not dealing with this. The people of Sauga have turned to the Chancellor of Justice, who will give an answer in the coming days. They've been sued, but it hasn't given them a solution. They have addressed the Prime Minister, and he has not given a solution either. So what do we do now? Are we looking forward to the possibility that, after 1 January, the government will intervene and resolve their problem? This whole situation is what the Free Party warned about when the Administrative Reform Act was adopted. There are very big mistakes in this law. This law poses great problems. We were hoping the new government would begin to correct the mistakes that were written in it. The new government hasn't done it, and now it's on top of this batch that it has to find its own solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U262	Next, please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U263	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, who you are with iron butts and can still hold on! Soon the bells will be kicking at midnight. But the story is sad and the story is embarrassing, the story is completely undemocratic and even kafkalike. I hope everyone knows what a Kafka thing is. It's cafe-like when someone says you're guilty. There's no evidence of guilt, but all the officials are beating their shoulders: 'They say you're guilty, and now we have to take you to court, we have to judge you. ' And the court says that we don't have any evidence, but they said you were guilty. And that's how a person gets convicted and eventually executed. It's Kafka, and now it's kafka. Why is he kafkalike? Because the solution is as formalistic as possible and, on the other hand, as selfish as possible. Let's not hide this well-known fact that every person is as big a pig as they let him be. This also applies to local government leaders. Of course, the people of Sauga Municipality are interested in not being small fishes in a large pond. In the city of Pärnu, they would lose their identity and work and so on. They'd like to be big fish in a small pond, but they'd be smaller in numbers and everything else. And that's how they meet Tori, meet Sindi. It's all just strange for me as a born lime, because Sindi and Pärnu have essentially grown together. In the meantime, Paikuse, which is a suburb of Pärnu, also Sindi is a suburb of Pärnu. It always has been. Uulu has always been the summer district of Pärnu, the suburbs, Tahkuranna as well. We can say the same about Sauga. Now, just like the entire sheet of paper is torn apart and it is said that these pieces should actually belong somewhere else. It's not normal. Believe me, you can formalize this, and these elections can be arranged there. The elders have been paid for a whole year. I regard this as a completely corrupt transaction between the state and local government leaders. Of course, the Prime Minister does not agree with me, and the previous Prime Minister does not agree with me, I am absolutely certain of that, but I regard it as a completely corrupt transaction. This is a buy-out of administrative reform from local government leaders so that they can accept it, and it is clearly a corrupt transaction. We can hold these elections and the leaders will be elected, but believe me, these unnatural things will ultimately not work. Sooner or later, the correction shall be made and this correction may be painful. Believe me, just as everything has a price tag on it, so is this correction. And that price is paid out of the taxpayer's pocket, from the government's wallet. And no one insists on showing me sources of cover. It's just that they find the money and they remake it again, again by trial and error. Why not listen to the voice of the people now and do otherwise? It is possible to come up with other options, so those villages that want to go under Pärnu will go under Pärnu and this aggressive land, which is already more towards Pärnu-Jaagup, will join another municipality. Of course, we understand that somewhere, the number of taxpayers, the number of tax-able residents is drastically shrinking, but territorially, administratively and rationally, this is in any case a better option than the fact that thousands of people are forced to accept administrative arrangements that are not acceptable to them, which are not suitable for them in terms of everyday life. We all know that these people are doing things in Pärnu, not Toris or anywhere else. They're gonna go to Tori because it's a state of compulsion. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U264	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U265	Finally, I would like to say this. You know what this all reminds me of? It reminds me of the time of serfdom, where people were sold in villages, traded in villages between landlords, played off in card games, traded for hunting dogs. Is there any such impression in a democratic country? You can't get that impression! The right of free decision-making and expression of people must materialise. I hope that, in the case of the Prime Minister, the saying 'Man's word, a bull's horn' will apply, and if it falls on 1 January, he will take steps to ensure that the will of the people in troubled places is not only in Sauga municipality, there are other places in Estonia to pay and things are being reorganized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U266	Andres Herkel next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U267	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Prime Minister began by pointing out that we should work together, and pointed out that his move to Sauga was also linked to the cooperation arising from the inquiry initiated by the Free Party Group. I honestly hoped that you went to Sauga for the sake of the people, not because the members of the Free Party brought this question to you. I think that this is a priority, not that we are asking questions about it. This is obviously our responsibility. However, we would like to see cooperation at other levels. I mean how these problems are solved. We have tabled a draft in which we proposed at least at the final stage of the reform to alleviate this extremely rigid 5000 population criterion in order to allow the government to grant derogations. We have also tabled a draft that suggests that if a village wants to change its self-governance status, the Government of the Republic can make such decisions with discretion. To be honest, if I hear this interpretation that you cannot join a local government that already has at least 5 000 inhabitants, I would like to tell you, Prime Minister, that if you notice such a thing, you should run to the people who wrote this law in this form, ask about this interpretation and change it as a matter of urgency. I have not always understood the metaphor of the roller, which we often use in politics, sometimes with too light hands. But this thing doesn't remind me of a roller, it's something scarier: it's only going one way and it doesn't have the slightest chance of maneuvering. He just hits people. The whole approach that the Administrative Reform Act does not provide for the slightest possibility of changing some sections is wrong and stupid. Why does it have to be like this? We're all human, we're all wrong. We understand that it is not possible to anticipate all situations when such a major reform is carried out under the law. When we come to the implementation of these provisions, changes are needed. But you rule it out, just like the previous government, who has quite frankly passed all this crap on to you. He did not foresee, in the process of processing the administrative reform law, that any opposition proposal would pass, that any proposal would be properly heard. Then it really bothered you. And indeed, I did not point out for a reason that we have received feedback from many parts of Estonia that you often accompanied by the presidential candidate of your party, Mr Ratas, when he was driving around Estonia, gave a wide range of promises that if we came and won the presidential elections, the implementation of the administrative reform law would be suspended if we wanted to. I don't think such processes can really be stopped. If you said that, this kind of feedback we've gotten, maybe it was over the border. But the fact that you do not react at all to what is really happening and that you do not look at how these situations have developed is certainly not right. That's very bad. Finally, Mart Helme's comment that it resembles serfdom. To be honest, it's painful to admit from this remote control that we're dealing with these villages this way. But it came out very vividly last week when Mikhail Korb and I discussed these issues. It's not just Sauga's question. The question of Sauga stands out because the community there is extremely viable and large, especially the village of Tammiste, but also others. The same problem, for example, is still in Amblas, where people have been run over. Killa is an undisputed attraction center that has belonged to the same parish as them. Let us solve these problems, let us not leave them in the air! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U268	Next, please, Külliki Hatter, speaking from the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U269	Thank you, good vice chairman. I was moved by the fact that I felt quite sad. Why does the government not want to admit very simple things? Last week, Minister Korb mentioned from the back of the moka that the condition of the new coalition being born was that we would not change the law on administrative reform. Which was it, Prime Minister, who categorically demanded it? IRL or Sods or both together? To the biggest partner, they directly flushed the water. Isn't the government prepared to admit the mistakes of the previous coalition, all these failures? Is it not ready to feel sorry for the villagers and admit that something is wrong? Unfortunately, before 1 January, when the law on administrative reform ceases to apply, there is no wish to take any step against the people. Instead of sympathy, we see a rather clear sense of superiority, a consistent denial of the will of the people. It makes you sad and makes you wonder what we're gonna do. Are we here for the people? Or are we here for a small faction? I think it is important for us to be here for our people and to take into account the will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U270	Next, please speak to Marko Šorini!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U271	Good manager! Good guys in the hall! Good Prime Minister! It is quite exhilarating to hear that there are Pärnu and Sintians in this hall, except me, who I was born, raised, lived, and still live. And do you know where I was the day before I took an oath right here on the remote? I was in the accession negotiations with the very representatives of the municipalities that I believe you are actually ironing here. All those villages nearest the city of Pärnu have emerged as a result of uncontrolled or unmanageable urban sprawl. The residents there are former limes who, of course, may want to return to their former hometown. The population of Sauga rural municipality was just under 2000, 15 years ago, now it is just over 4,000. The population of Pärnu has decreased over the years. It must not be forgotten that Sauga was actually at the negotiating table with Pärnu for a very long time. They were the last to leave this negotiating table. But their representatives realized that joining Pärnu would not meet the expectations of the Saugans. They understood that they were not defending the will of the Saugans. It is not a question of who gets the taxpayers of Sauga, even though Sauga's tax payers started the accession negotiations in Pärnu County at all. But on the basis of the information that I have, of course, because I was the mayor of Sindi for over five years and because I participated in the same negotiations, I clearly conclude that the reasons are not really understood in this Chamber. But that is also understandable. When Sauga came out of negotiations with Pärnu, they proposed to their closest neighbours that accession negotiations be opened. Their proposal was accepted by Sindi City and Tori Municipality, and the three of us had accession talks. I think that at record speed in Estonia we reached the draft accession agreement because the parties understood that we are equal and that none of the other parties are able to pull the skin over the ears. Are was added later because they were unable to join Pärnu because they do not have a common border. The villages were clearly activated after the rumors began to move around that Pärnu would no longer take children to schools, hobby groups, kindergartens. So, clearly, we start scaring the taxpayers, and we stick to the rhetoric that this is about receiving or not receiving taxpayers. That's how the villages activated. But in fact, we all know that schools can't refuse to accept children, and no headmaster can snatch any children off his door when he has the chance to make a bounty on his children. The same four municipalities, with a total of 11200 inhabitants, have signed an agreement and have been approved on a four-pronged basis. Now 87% of the population is leaving one party. So what do these three municipalities get as an inheritance? Who will take the empty territory that has been waiting for investment, standing in line behind these same villages? Above all, all municipalities have developed these very villages in order to attract more taxpayers to these residential districts. We could have joined earlier. I believe there are smart people here who know it's been possible for 20 or 25 years. Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U272	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U273	If I'd known I had a chance to make a report, I would have made it tighter. But, yeah, the question is, you could have joined me sooner, anytime. Never did Sauga have a proposal to join the city of Pärnu or another municipality from the neighborhood. Therefore, if these 87% of the population were to go away now, I think that the same accession agreement that the four municipalities agreed on should be taken back and started again. I see the possibility that Sindi and Tori can finally make a municipality with each other, and if Sauga goes to Pärnu with these villages, the rest of the territory will go, and so will Are. So it is not really worth going in with the accusation that the villagers will not be heard. Jüri Ratas went there to meet the people to find out about the local moods. He didn't go to the public meeting to report. It's a completely different format. Imagine the situation when any member of the Riigikogu goes somewhere on site, agrees with the mayor that we are discussing your problems, but when he arrives, he discovers that half the parish is there and people are demanding that you report what you are sitting there in the Riigikogu, because if you watch on television, you can constantly see that the hall is empty. So, unfortunately, the theme setting in this Chamber is wrong. If you want me to talk more about Sauga Municipality and her neighbors, I'd be happy to do it. I'm a little bit more sinister than you, though. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U274	Next, please speak to Jüri Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U275	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to talk to you about two questions. Firstly, it is a question of the sentence in our chapter of the Constitutional Government that local government units in Estonia are cities and municipalities. I have always been of the opinion that this is one of the work accidents of the Constitutional Assembly and that such a formulation was introduced mainly because no one could offer a better wording on the principle that Estonia has a one-tier self-government system. But later I thought maybe that wasn't the only reason. Because in the past there were concepts such as city, town and village in Estonia, but in law there were two different systems: the City Act and the Municipality Act, the City Council Election Act and the Municipal Council Election Act. They would probably have disappeared in the 1920s and would have gone more or less to the current system, but in the Päts era, there was a sort of seizure of the Russian Empire's legal concepts, and then they went back. I think it had something to do with the 1930s and the Päts regime. But we've had two big messes in this regard. First of all, one of the Assistant Chancellors of Justice of Truuvälja explained with this sentence for about ten years that, since the Constitution contains such sentences, there must be no such ring connections in Estonia that the city remains in the middle and there is a manifestation around it. Later this explanation withdrew, but now this problem has come back in the course of this administrative reform. A meeting of constitutional experts was held with the Minister of Justice today, including a number of proposals. I have proposed to the Government Coalition that this sentence be removed from the Constitution quickly or replaced by another one. It could be done pretty quickly. I just reconfirm that this is the idea I have proposed, and the Prime Minister will hear it today. This would be feasible and, in my opinion, probably for the first time in Estonia, there is such an opportunity for it to receive great support and be accepted in this composition. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U276	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U277	This Sauga problem is to a large extent a city's border problem; this question is not limited to Pärnu alone. Perhaps it would have been reasonable for the current administrative reform law to have been preceded by a proper preparatory work and the issue of the need to extend the borders of many cities first. Unfortunately, this has not been done, and it has led us to the present situation. We have two causes of trouble. Firstly, what I think Mr Šorin said was that in Soviet times gardening cooperatives emerged in the vicinity of cities, which have now become full urban settlements, where people live their daily lives but work in the city. It's a general practice, it's not just a matter of Sauga parish. Secondly, when our independence was restored, so many people, who did not have any opportunity to build their own house during the Soviet era, found this opportunity and wanted to start building the house, but at that time people in general were not given land in the cities. In my home town of Tartu, I was a city councillor at the time, said the governing forces of the city said that we would continue to build only Annelinna, i.e. Mustamäe and Lasnamäe types of settlements and do not give properties for private houses. The result is that all Estonian cities are surrounded by these kinds of new deposits within a radius of 20 to 25 km. Some of them are even further around Tallinn. These people work with their cars every day, there are often no kindergartens or schools, but there are many questions. From the perspective of these people, the laws on local government are quite foolish. In fact, even in pre-war Estonia, there was a possibility that the person was not necessarily connected with the municipality of residence. It was possible for a person to choose whether he would vote in a local area outside the city's borders or vice versa, in a city. We've gotten really crazy about this. And there's all kinds of other shit, like taxes aren't coming to the right place anymore. In short, there are many problems that we should be dealing with in the near future, because the existing situation arising from the laws is largely separated from the way people organise their lives and understand the principles of organising their lives. And if these things are such a playful conflict, but the real life is quite a mess, it doesn't predict anything good about the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U278	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. I ask you to return to the speaker's chair, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U279	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Thank you again for asking me this question. I think we are working at a good pace here in the Riigikogu and you are also pulling the government along at this good rate. I don't think anyone's unhappy about being unhappy on the first day of spring. Sadly, though, the Hatter said that he was unhappy and distressed. However, we should try to look at things positively. You, honourable member of the Riigikogu, said that we here hope that we are still for the people in general, not the Riigikogu, but also the government, and I agree with you. I agree with you and we are still trying to move forward in cooperation and happiness, not so that someone is crying and someone is laughing. You have to look at things together, that's right. I would, of course, like to thank Marko Šorin. His review of the content of the inquiry was very meaningful; it was very sincere and analytic. Thank you so much for that. But why did I ask the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu to come to this chair again? Mr. Talvik here asked what council this is if he did not represent the people. That mattered to me very much and very much to my heart, as did the words of your groupmate, Külliki Hatter. I got a little sad myself. I have visited many municipalities of Estonia in ten years, most of them two or three times. In general, however, I think that the council always represents the local community, its municipality or the city. That is the point of democracy, that it is the council that has to make decisions. This council was elected by Sauga residents in 2013. Whether they chose well or badly, whether they like it or not, it is a question of their own. But to tell one municipality that the council, which has been elected in free democratic elections, does not represent the people I cannot imagine. That's a pretty tough line. The Council will certainly always represent the people. Mr Talvik gave an example of sport that this is not a game of chess. I thought about it once myself, which could, at the last minute, change the rules of the game, basically in the last few seconds, if they've been played by other rules before. Let me give you a basketball: let's say you're behind 20 points, and then it's reported that the basket thrown in the last five seconds gives 21 points. It's about the same if we changed the rules of the game now that Sauga and I meet the people at the last minute. Mr Herkel rightly said: of course I went there because these are the people of Estonia, all of them our people. I made it clear that their opportunities would arise next year on a legislative basis, but it is not fair for everyone else to change the rules at the last minute. The government and the Prime Minister must work on the basis of the rules that have come from this honourable Riigikogu. You said, Mr Talvik, that you hoped, thanks to the change of government, that something would change in the life of the self-government reform. And I'm gonna tell you, right, something's gonna change. First of all, the fact that people are really face-to-face is changing: the main desire of local governments over the last seven to eight years is being met and the income base before the crisis is being restored, at least in terms of personal income tax. This represents EUR 90 million for the next three years. We have always said that the most important thing is how operationally and how high quality services the municipality offers to its inhabitants. This has been one of the guiding principles of this coalition: to trust municipalities more, to take them as partners and to give them more tasks, responsibilities and competences, of course, with funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U280	The answer to the sixth question is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U281	The seventh question is presented by Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaasa, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla, members of the Riigikogu, and the possible anti-constitutional situation of the Republic of Estonia in the elections to the Riigikogu in 2019 following the end of the administrative reform. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U282	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister! Happy to go to midnight! On 14 February this year, or Valentine's Day, members of the Conservative People's Party Group submitted an inquiry to Mr Jüri Ratas, Prime Minister. The topic was possible against the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in the next Riigikogu elections. The administrative reform, which hastened and unthinkingly adopted, confuses the borders of many counties and changes the number of inhabitants of the local government units, and this creates a clear barrier to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia in the elections of the Riigikogu in 2019 if the boundaries of the circles are not changed. Our constitution requires that elections be uniform and proportionate. However, as a result of population movements, the number of mandates in the electoral circles has increased, and administrative reform is amplifying it further. In this context, a situation has arisen where the weight of the citizen's voice in different counties is very different. There have also been very large differences between the circles in terms of the allocation of mandates. In 2015 elections there were 14 mandates in electoral district No 4, Harju and Raplamaa, and five mandates in District No 6, or Lääne-Virumaa. The difference is almost triple, which means that in order to obtain a personal mandate in District 4, 7% of the votes are required, while in District 6, 20% is required. The same problem is with the circuit mandate. This situation clearly does not meet the requirement of uniformity and proportionality in the elections. In this regard, we have put five questions to the Prime Minister. Firstly, 'What is going to be done to ensure regional balance and uniformity in the elections? ' Second: 'Do you think it is necessary to change the boundaries of the electoral circles before the elections of the Riigikogu in 2019 so that the circles become uniform and the numbers of mandates equal? Third: " Will there be more or fewer electoral circles? ' Fourth: 'What principles and on what basis do you consider that electoral districts should be drawn up for the 2019 Riigikogu elections? ' And fifthly, 'How will a uniform geographical distribution of mandates be ensured in elections and a proportional representation of regions? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U283	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U284	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you very much for your questioning. I'll start this way, if you'll allow me to read the question first and then I'll answer it. The first question: 'What are you going to do to ensure regional balance and uniformity of elections? ' The principles of the right to vote of the Republic of Estonia are laid down in the Constitution, Article 60 (1) of which states that elections are free, general, uniform and direct, voting is secret and a proportional electoral system is implemented. In the case of active voting rights, the principle of uniformity means that all voters must have an equal number of votes and the votes of voters from different electoral circles must have more or less the same weight. The principle of uniformity is contradicted by a situation where the number of voters in the electoral circles with the same number of mandates varies significantly, which is why the weight of votes in these circles also varies considerably. According to the Riigikogu Election Act, a uniform right to vote means that each voter has one vote in these elections. In the case of passive electoral rights, the principle of uniformity lies in ensuring a level playing field for all candidates. For example, parties must be given an equal length of air time to present their views in the public media. There must be compelling constitutional reasons to limit the principle of uniformity. For example, pursuant to the Riigikogu Election Act, a party that has collected less than 5% of the votes does not enter the Riigikogu in the distribution of compensation mandates. In the case of a proportional electoral system, mandates are allocated among political parties with several mandates in proportion to the number of votes cast by these candidates. The principle of proportionality is linked to the principle of uniformity. According to the principle of proportionality, voters vote on the electoral lists of political parties or electoral federations. The list shall receive seats in Parliament in proportion to the number of votes cast. The proportionality principle does not preclude the application of a moderate electoral threshold, such as 5% for political parties. The second question: 'Do you think it is necessary to change the boundaries of the electoral circles before the elections of the Riigikogu in 2019 so that the circles become uniform and the numbers of mandates equal? ' Honorable Riigikogu and good questioners! Let me remind you that the Riigikogu Election Act can only be amended by you, by a majority of its members. The latter condition is justified by the fact that the right to vote is one of the main rights that the public can take part in decisions in society. The commentary on the Constitution stresses that the Riigikogu Election Act must have as broad a support group as possible and the law must be as stable as possible on fundamental issues. I would stress that if there is a need to amend the law in order to respect the principles enshrined in the Constitution, this initiative should come from the elected parliament of the people and the changes should have the broadest possible political support. Question 3: Will there be more or fewer electoral districts? ' The Riigikogu Election Act establishes the number of electoral circles at the moment it is 12 and determines the boundaries of the circles. Neither the Constitution nor the Riigikogu Election Act states that the boundaries of the electoral circles must be periodically adjusted according to certain parameters. However, in the interests of a uniform electoral right, changes in the number of voters should be periodically analysed and the necessary adjustments made to the number of mandates to be allocated within the circles or circles should be made. These analyses will certainly be constantly analysed by the national electoral service. The electoral districts are multimandated, i.e. more than one member of the Riigikogu is elected from each district. The mandate between the circles shall be distributed by the electoral committee of the Republic by a decision which shall be made public without delay. Question 4: 'By what principles and on what basis do you consider that electoral districts should be drawn up for the 2019 Riigikogu elections? ' Pretty accurate calculations can be made just before the Riigikogu elections. The mandates used in the 2019 elections are based on the first date of the month in which the elections were announced, which is expected to be 1 November 2018. It should be borne in mind that significant changes to the electoral rule just before the elections may be unconstitutional. The Supreme Court has pointed out in its position that the minimum requirement for amending the electoral rules is that the law providing for significant changes must be adopted by calculation so that it can enter into force in good time before the elections. The position of the Venice Commission, set up at the Council of Europe, which brings together experts in the field of constitutional law, is that, according to good practice, the basic elements of the electoral law, in particular the electoral system, the composition of the electoral committee and the formation or modification of electoral circles, may be changed at the latest one year before the elections. Question 5: 'How will a uniform geographical distribution of mandates be ensured in elections and a proportional representation of regions? ' The national electoral service states that, as a result of administrative reform, the boundaries of the electoral circles and, consequently, the number of voters in the district are indeed changing. The biggest change in numbers takes place in the city of Tartu and the county of Tartu. Therefore, in two years' time, in conjunction with population relocation, the distribution of mandates between circles could change. As the distribution of mandates between the circles by the larger residue method, a very small change in the number of voters may also affect the distribution of the latter's mandates, so it is not possible to predict exactly what is happening at the moment. Theoretically, however, there are many ways in which electoral circles can be changed. I will give some examples here, but I would ask you to take them as mere examples, not as it has already been agreed in the government. Firstly, maintain the existing number of circles, i.e. 12, and try to equalise the number of mandates in circles. This would mean changing the existing electoral system based on counties. At the same time, it is difficult to achieve neighbouring regions. Secondly, increase the number of circles, taking into account the obligation to respect the principle of proportionality. It is estimated that the number of mandates in the district could not be reduced to less than four or five mandates, thus increasing to 20. Thirdly, reduce the number of existing circles, with the possibility that Estonia is one nationwide district. If the minimum regional representation is to be maintained through circles, then the number of circles could, for example, be between five and seven, making the number of mandates in the district about 20 mandates. However, there are certainly other alternatives. These last, once again, were just some examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U285	Thank you. You have questions too. First Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U286	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I have very, very many questions, but since I only have one minute and one question at my disposal, I will limit myself to one. Here's my question. It is precisely administrative reform that is the reason for our questioning, as the administrative reform changes the boundaries of many counties, and as a result the number of inhabitants in certain electoral circles changes. As a result, inconsistencies in the number of mandates increase. You said that we could change the Riigikogu Election Act, which is absolutely true. At the same time, I would like to remind you that the draft law on administrative reform came to the Riigikogu from the Government of the Republic, i.e. the government has developed an administrative reform, which is the result of which we now have to resolve issues relating to the election of the Riigikogu in order to ensure the proportionality of the elections. Do you think it reasonable that when the Government of the Republic has developed an administrative reform law, it will also develop a new solution for organising elections to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U287	Thank you. In this sense, of course, you are right that you must comply with the Home and Working Procedures Act. You're really allowed one minute and one question. This has not been prescribed by the government. You are also right in the fact that administrative reform really changes borders. That's what I said when I answered the question. I named the city of Tartu and Tartu County, but the boundaries also change in Läänemaa and Pärnu County. Lääne County becomes smaller due to administrative reform and the entire electoral district of Saare, Hiiu and Lääne County loses its inhabitants. If the legislative body thinks that it is now possible to ask for proposals from the executive, then of course the government is ready to make these proposals. But, as I said, in my opinion, changing the electoral circle still requires a very strong consensus, as broad as possible, here in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U288	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U289	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Prime Minister! You have talked at length and widely about a number of things here, but I would like to get a concrete answer to Question 2, which is whether you consider it necessary to change the size of the electoral community for the 2019 elections. We had a meeting last week with the members of the electoral services who said that if we do so, we can essentially only do so until the end of this year, say, at most in the nearest year. After that, the time frames will come. You yourself referred to them. Do you see yourself as the initiator of it, or do you push responsibility on someone else's side to all the political groups of the Riigikogu, or do I not know who else? You said that candidates must have a level playing field, but at the moment there are five mandates in Lääne-Virus, six mandates in West and Saaremaa, 14 in Harju and Rapla and 15 in the next elections. Candidates do not have equal opportunities because there are three-fold differences between obtaining a personal mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U290	Thank you. You said I was talking about a lot of things here. Of course I did. And you yourself were a questioner: you asked five questions, and I had to answer them. If you ask whether, in my opinion, the problem of the electoral circles should be taken seriously, you have brought the examples of Harju and Raplamaa and Lääne-Virumaa, then I think we should take it seriously. Yeah, it needs to be analyzed. To whom responsibility now lies, this is the subject of the debate of the Riigikogu, but the government can certainly state its position. You're asking if you can look seriously at the problem of circles with scissors so big. I think we should take a look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U291	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U292	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! We have an office like the Minister of State Administration. The Minister of Public Administration is currently actively dealing with issues related to the implementation of the administrative reform. That means he's basically dealing with the problem of changing the county borders. Since the Constitution essentially states that the electoral districts and counties of the Riigikogu overlap, should it not be directly his task to come up with possible versions that are likely to overlap with the hypothetical versions that you offered us a little while ago? I am thinking of the idea of really starting a debate in the Riigikogu on this subject, for example, to bring it to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs. In our opinion, it is abnormal that the number of electoral mandates is so unbalanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U293	Thank you. As you said, the committees in the Riigikogu must cooperate with each other, and so is the government. This certainly cannot be the responsibility of just one ministry. It is certainly important that the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Public Administration give their input, but also, of course, the Government as a whole. You argued that after the administrative reform, Estonia's map and electoral circles should be seriously analysed. As I confirmed in reply to the previous question, I fully agree with that. I think that all 12 circles should be analysed as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U294	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U295	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I have a very simple question this time: who wrote you these answers that you read to us here? Was it an official of the Ministry of Justice, or did you also consult with election service experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U296	If you ask who will help the Prime Minister draw up the answers, then this is mostly the agency concerned. In this case, I personally asked for help from the electoral service, but the State Chancellery will also help me to provide the best possible answers to the questions. And, of course, the Prime Minister's own contribution is also at stake.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U297	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U298	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It's nice to hear how the answers come, but sometimes you might as well answer. You could have specifically answered Mr Helme's question, for example, whether you consider it necessary to change the number of mandates in circles. What do you think is necessary or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U299	I guess you're asking a lot of questions. But as I answered Mart Helme's question, as well as Martin Helme's question: I think that these things need to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U300	No further questions. Do you have any requests for the floor? George Adams, speaking from the remote, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U301	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't think Andres Herkel's question was quite random. We talked a little bit about this at the cafeteria, and there was at least one mistake in the Prime Minister's presentation that needs to be corrected for the sake of the verbatim. Namely, the method used in Estonia to determine the results of the elections for the allocation of compensation mandates is not the larger residue method. The larger residue method is completely available and has been used in Estonia. But now we are using the so-called d'Hondt Sharing Method in Estonia. This d'Hondt name is not pronunciable; it is a French pronunciation of the Netherlands. We do not just use the d'Hondt method, where the dividers are the integers of the row just 1, 2, 3, 5, etc., but we use the modified method where we have 10,9, 20,9, 30,9. And that nice thing I know was once made up by High Council member Illar Hallas, and that's how he's stayed. It's like a factual question. I do not think that we will ever go back to the larger residue method in Estonia. The D'Hondt method has its great advantages. But the second topic is correct. It turned out from the Prime Minister's reply that we are facing an era of relatively rapid action, which is likely to begin at the moment when the borders of the new and the remaining old municipalities of the current administrative reform will be locked for some time. About the end of February next year, this timing will have a window that will enable something to be done. It seems most logical that the boundaries between counties and Tallinn city districts, which are currently the basis for the formation of electoral districts, cannot be used anymore. I don't know how it's going to be in Tallinn, but in other parts of Estonia, outside Tallinn, probably the number of new local government units born as a result of the administrative reform could be taken as the first attempt. This figure is not very precise, but in this particular case it is sufficient. And obviously, on the basis of these data, new electoral districts must be formed, leaving aside the currently existing county borders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U302	Next, please speak to Martin Helme. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U303	Honourable Deputy Speaker! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I would say that I think we are discussing one of the most important issues. It may not be very exciting for the public, but it is important that the elections themselves and the result of the elections express, as precisely and as honestly as possible, the will of the voters. Once, when Estonia's current electoral system was established, the number of mandates for all electoral circles was more or less equal. As a result of the movement of the population within Estonia, this balance has gone completely out of order. There are five mandates in Lääne-Virumaa and a person must receive 20% of the votes in order to obtain a personal mandate, while there are currently 14 mandates in Harju and Raplamaa and probably 15 for the next elections. The difference is triple, and it's not normal. If the government is not going to deliver this change, it is obvious that no changes will be made within this small remaining period. I would also like to remind you that about a year ago, during the previous government, these plans were briefly considered. Maps were drawn and even the relevant panel was at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But at one point, all these plans got caught up somewhere. At the moment, the new government will be able to take these plans out of there again and give the undertaking a new impetus. Personally, I believe that if the government shows some initiative, there is more or less the interest or willingness of all the political groups in the Riigikogu to take this plan seriously and implement these changes. If they do not want to do so, it will be possible to reform the entire electoral system. There are very profound changes to our party's programme. As the Prime Minister said, it is possible to turn Estonia into one constituency where 101 of the most votes cast come to the Riigikogu. It is possible to make all kinds of plans, it is possible to implement the recall mechanism, it is also possible to switch to a major election system, which probably would not be very popular in Estonia. But the system we've got right now is basically clogged. Looking at Parliament and saying that this is Parliament's concern is two-faced, because in fact we all know that 97 or 98% of the legislation that will apply in Estonia comes from the government, not from the parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U304	Thank you. There's no more calls. Would the Prime Minister like a final word? No, I don't. Then we're done answering the seventh question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U305	The eighth question is submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Martin Helme, Henn Põlluaasa, Mart Helme, Raivo Põldaru, Uno Kaskpeiti and Arno Silla. The subject is the registration of marriages of persons of the same sex in the population register. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U306	Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice Speaker and ladies and gentlemen, I will report to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, for an inquiry by members of our group. This concerns the inclusion of marriages of persons of the same sex in the population register. In Estonia, a decision has come into force as a result of a trial that is hidden from the public, and as a result the union of persons of the same sex has been entered into the population register for the first time. The process was carried out by homo-activist Reimo Mets, which is why there is no doubt that it was a political act to change the behaviour of the state bypassing the will of the people and the decisions of Parliament. It is a dangerous precedent whose effect extends beyond the limits of a particular case. With the entry into force of this judgment, the Estonian legal system has accepted that marriage can be legally regarded as an association of persons of the same sex. The decision is contrary to the family law in force in Estonia and to the law of private international law. Tallinn Circuit Court violated Estonian law and took up the role of lawmaker. These are our questions to the Minister. 'Considering that this is a precedent that alters the foundations of important constitutional law, why did the Estonian state not appeal to the Supreme Court against the decision of the Circuit Court? Second: " What legislation did the circuit court make its decision? ' Third: 'This case concerns both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Did you have any communication with the Minister of the Interior on this subject about the need to appeal against the judgment of the District Court? ' Fourthly, does the minister agree with the opinion of the heirs that the judges Virgo Saarmets, Maret Altnurme, and Kaire Pikamäe exceeded their powers and took the role of legislator in making a decision? Does the Minister see the possibility of removing the judges who violated the principle of separation of powers or otherwise disciplining them? ' And fifthly, does the Minister of Justice consider it reasonable or necessary to initiate amendments to the law which would preclude the registration of registered partnerships or marriages in other countries in the respective registers? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U307	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U308	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! Good heirs! First, why did the Estonian state not appeal to the Supreme Court? I met the question. The state, in this case the Harju County Government, which was actually the state institution which was sued by these persons, appealed to the district court, but did not appeal to the Supreme Court. I asked the Minister of Public Administration for a statement on what motives the Harju County Government refused to appeal against the decision. I will give an overview of the explanation given to me by the Minister of State Administration, who in turn received it from the Harju County Government. First, in assessing the basis of the judgment of the District Court, Harju County Government did not consider further legal proceedings to be promising. It was considered that the risk of increased procedural costs is likely. According to Harju County Government representatives also contacted the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of Interior to get their position. The Population Operations Department had been informed since December, but did not propose an appeal for cassation. The Minister of Justice had no competence to intervene in this procedure. The Ministry of Justice was not asked for a position on this issue. However, my position is not a secret. I think that there is no reason to change the practice of the existing government authorities on such matters. However, in one case, the problem was not exactly the same as the one that was asked about, but it was necessary to appeal against the marriage of persons of the same sex to the population register. At the moment, I consider it necessary for the Supreme Court to develop a relevant practice. In this sense, I would certainly have welcomed the fact that Harju County Government would have gone to the level of cassation in an attempt to solve the issue. The second question: " What laws did the circuit court base its judgment on? ' The case in itself was that the Harju County Government took a stand when it took a full course of proceedings, that marriages between same-sex persons were not recognised in the Republic of Estonia. Pursuant to the Private International Law Act, a marriage concluded abroad is considered valid in Estonia if it was carried out in accordance with the procedure for the conclusion of the marriage and, in substantive terms, complied with the law of the country of residence of both spouses. This whole discussion follows from § 7 of the Private International Law Act, according to which foreign law does not apply if its application would lead to a result that is clearly contrary to the general principles of Estonian law, i.e. public policy. In that case, Estonian law shall apply. It was Harju County Government's decision to refuse to enter the same-sex marriage in the population register in the Kingdom of Sweden. The county government took the view that according to Estonian law, same-sex couples are not intended to have access to the institution of marriage and therefore the marriages of same-sex persons in other countries are not recognised in Estonia. In Estonia, as the legislator explicitly excludes the marriage of same-sex persons, the Family Act says that the marriage of same-sex persons is negligible, the right to refuse to recognise the marriage of same-sex persons in another country. That decision was appealed. The county government also maintained its position in the district court, claiming that the registration of the requested marriage in the population register is contrary to the Family Law and the Private International Law Act. Since the will of the legislator has clearly been that the registered partnership of same-sex persons does not mean marriage and does not have the same legal effects as marriage, the recognition of the marriage of same-sex persons in Estonia would lead to the creation of rights that the legislator has not wished to grant to same-sex couples. The Tallinn Administrative Court also joined this line of reasoning as a court of first instance. The Administrative Court took the view that in the case in question, the political choices are subject to judicial review only to a limited extent and that the court can intervene only if the legislation is contrary to a higher rule in the hierarchy of rules. I quote the position of the Court of First Instance. The court found that Articles 26 and 27 of the Constitution do not stipulate who must be able to marry in Estonia and what kind of marriage must be recognised in Estonian law. However, Article 27 (2) of the Constitution and Article 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights refer to the traditional marriage of men and women. Thus, marriage between same-sex persons is not a protected area of the Constitution and failure to recognise it is not unconstitutional. The main question was what standards this decision was based on. The Circuit Court took the view that § 7 of the Private International Law Act was not sufficient. Let it be said once again that the marriage of persons of the same sex is negligible in Estonia because, according to Estonian law, marriage can only be concluded between a man and a woman. The Circuit Court held that in order to refuse to apply foreign law, the result of the application of foreign law and not the foreign law itself must be contrary to Estonian public policy. The Circuit Court interpreted public order in this way, and it based itself on the definition of public order in the Law Enforcement Act, and I think it is most important in this debate and in the circuit court's argument chain that it took the view that, in a situation where the legislator has already started to regulate the registered partnership relationship of persons of the same sex by the introduction of the Law on Cohabitation, the recognition of the marriage of same-sex persons in Estonia in another country would not be contrary to public policy, as it would not jeopardise any important legal benefit or undermine the subjective rights of anyone. The Circuit Court found it necessary to stress that by recognising a marriage concluded in accordance with Swedish law in Estonia, this legal relationship does not become a marriage concluded in accordance with Estonian law. In general, the legal basis requested was the interpretation by the district court of how the public order covered by § 7 of the Private International Law Act could be furnished. The Court based its interpretation on the fact that the legislator has adopted the Cohabitation Act and that it actually means changing the concept of public order in the Estonian legal area. Next question: 'This case concerns both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Did you have any communication with the Minister of the Interior on this subject about the need to appeal against the judgment of the District Court? " No, it wasn't. To the Minister of the Interior, my views are not a secret, nor is his views a secret to me. We did not have a specific discussion with him on this. I would like to stress, however, that the decision not to go to cassation level was made by the Harju County Government, that is, indeed, by contacting the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior. My question to the Minister of the Interior was whether he was behind any of his guidelines or whether he was aware of the decision. The Minister of the Interior said that he had not given any instructions to his office for taking positions. The next question is whether the Minister agrees with the assessment of the heirs that these judges exceeded their mandate and took the role of legislator in the decision-making process. Public order in the interpretation of the Private International Law Act is an open concept, which is what the judges formulate according to their interpretations. I say this by saying that the legislator has changed its stance on public policy in regulating relations between same-sex persons. This was an argument on which the circuit court also relied. The resultant part of the judgment is not disputed, although the Minister of Justice of the Rule of Law does not dispute it. However, it can certainly be discussed whether the arguments on the basis of which the operative part was based are most reasonable. I must admit that, for me, the arguments made by the Court of First Instance are certainly more compelling. But I would like to emphasise that I certainly have no reason to claim that the three judges in any way would have violated the limits of their powers. The judges shall formulate the concept of public order as enshrined in the Private International Law Act. They did so and specifically relied on the legislator's own step, which was to adopt the law on partnership. That's a fact. There is no point in ignoring the changed situation in legal relations. 'Does the Minister see the possibility of removing the judges who violated the principle of separation of powers or of otherwise discrimination? ' I can't see. Executive power and judicial authority are divorced in Estonia. The issue concerns the disciplinary liability of judges, but the issues of disciplinary liability of judges are resolved under the Courts Act on a "municipal basis', and the executive authority cannot and will not be able to intervene. 'Does the Minister of Justice consider it reasonable and necessary to initiate legislative amendments which would preclude the registration of registered partnerships or marriages in other countries in the respective registers? ' I think this series of questions needs a thorough analysis. So I am not going to answer one question or another here today, what a specific legal novel could be if we want to realise the objective that, in reality, marriage will remain a man-woman relationship under the unconditional Estonian legal order. We certainly also need to find an answer to the question of how the legislator will resolve the regulation of the relationship between same-sex persons, which is in the air due to the implementing law that is currently not in force. It has to be resolved in one direction or the other. Unfortunately, we do not get over or around fundamental choices, some of which have been made by the legislator, but some have not yet been made. I am not currently planning one or the other legislative amendment in this regard, but I will very carefully analyse all the individual judgments that have recently been handed down that legally embodi the legal space. I certainly cannot accept that subjective rights in Estonia are created by a law that does not really exist. I mean the draft implementing law, which cannot begin to build up a catalogue of subjective rights. That's what my mind is reluctant to accept. And when questions of this kind are raised in different institutions, I think it is necessary to confront it with my arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U309	There are also questions for the rapporteur. First, please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U310	Thank you. You noted that the Law on Cohabitation was the basis for this decision of the District Court. Firstly, there is a serious dispute as to whether or not the Cohabitation Act applies at all. Secondly, there are no implementing acts. Thirdly, the Cohabitation Act doesn't deal with marriages at all, and neither does the Marriage Register. So when a court determines such an act in the marriage register, referring to the Law of Cohabitation, it actually takes matters from the ceiling. And now the more important question, which I think is the central issue of this whole process. This is the separation of powers, the principle that the government must not interfere with the work of the courts. But the courts have just intervened in Parliament's work. So what are we gonna do? It cannot be that they themselves regulate or punish, in which case they are completely separated from any supervision or control. What are we going to do about judges who take over power?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U311	The question here comes about how Article 7 of the Private International Law Act provides for public order and whether or not the same-sex marriages are compatible with Estonian public order. The earlier approach has been clearly more modest. The earlier concept of state institutions, as well as the constitutional comments, has been based on the fact that public order within the meaning of the Private International Law Act requires in the Estonian legal space that we do not have such a phenomenon as same-sex marriage. At the same time, the question is that in practice, under the Private International Law Act, it is quite possible for marriages concluded abroad to be entered into the Estonian register for practical legal reasons. But it has been asked if the same-sex marriage can be carried there. The Circuit Court took the view that the concept of Estonian public order had changed. One argument was also that the Law on Cohabitation was passed, and in reality the morals and values on the basis of which marriage has so far been a union between a man and a woman are changing. This is, of course, a question of social values and attitudes. After all, this has not been a secret, the initiators of the Cohabitation Act stressed that in the Estonian legal order, marriage remains essentially a union between husband and wife. Of course, practical steps have been taken to broaden this concept. Now, what can be done by the legislator? The legislator can lay down rules. The legislator can establish rules that must be constitutional in the rule of law and express the will of the legislator on specific issues. If you ask which rule in this case might be the rule that must express the legislator's will that the marriage of same-sex persons would not be addressed in any way in Estonian law, it would probably not be wise to try to define an exhaustive concept of public order in Estonia within the meaning of the Private International Law Act. This is deliberately left open in the area of private international law. But there are certainly individual rules that are conceivable. It is a pity, indeed, that I do not deny at all that we do not have the practice of the Supreme Court in this area, which would be much broader than a particular case and would reflect the view of whether an administrative act is made one or the other. Defining the concept of public order in practice, in accordance with § 7 of the Private International Law Act, is certainly an important issue. As regards what to do with the courts, the courts shall give the right and do so by law. And the courts will have to comply with the law until the law has been declared unconstitutional by constitutional review.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U312	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U313	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I was pleased to hear that almost as it turned out, this judgment was interpreted very arbitrarily. Public order and the regulation of matrimonial relations do you not think that the reason why the applicants were given an advantage today was still very much sought? I guess now is when the county government could have appealed, and so it has been abandoned. Maybe it's just a little misdemeanor here that you could have intervened in a better way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U314	It's not my job to get involved in this case. I don't have the slightest power of command in this regard. But, as I said, we should necessarily have the relevant practice of the Supreme Court through the creation of a beneficial law. After all, the situation is that the law has indeed been passed in Parliament, but by its very nature it is unclear. This has led to legal uncertainty. But right now, I thought it was necessary to explain to you the motives why the county government didn't appeal. I do not want to judge these arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U315	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U316	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is undoubtedly clear to anyone with a mind that the court has simply found an excuse, an paragraph, and, as you say, it has been furnished by its own interpretation. Got it! However, do you not see that this is also very clearly a political motive and a statement of political will to push the precedent of our legal space, which can already be applied smoothly in subsequent cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U317	As far as the jurisdiction guiding the case law is concerned, in Estonia, this force is on the decisions of the Supreme Court. As we know, the lower court took one view, the circuit court as a collegial body to another. The judges' motives, their line of argument, these are their arguments. As I said, in the rule of law, the Minister of Justice cannot argue against the operative part of the decision. It is the rule of law that has been passed on according to the procedures that the legislator has assigned to the court. However, it may be a question of the specific arguments that are set out here. Indeed, the arguments of the district court are different from those found in the judgment at first instance and also in the opinion of Harju County Government. I would not want to place the whole burden of responsibility on one or the other in this matter, saying that there is a political court and that there is someone to blame. In this situation of legal inadequacy, decisions must still be taken by the court on the issues that have arisen. Unfortunately, the legislator has sent out very volatile signals by a narrow majority. However, the court cannot distance itself from making a decision. He makes one decision or another, and whether society likes it or not, the legislator's representatives or the public, the judgments are enforceable. But the rules on the basis of which the court takes its decisions, the substantive law rules which the court formulates, are established in the Estonian state by the legislator. The court interprets them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U318	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U319	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I was happy to read about last week's Estonian Express meeting with your Polish brother about a month ago. I am sincerely pleased that our relations with Poland are also very good on legal issues. This is particularly the case with Zbigniew Ziboro, the Polish Minister for Justice. But I want to ask your opinion about one thing. The Polish Under-Secretary of State has set an example for Antonin Scalia, who was a member of the U.S. Supreme Court and died last year, who considered that the judge should not be involved in legislative work, but must only apply the law. My first question is: what did you say to the Polish Minister? Do you agree that it is not up to the judges to legislate? And my second question is: is this case a precedent? What will be the next time there will be another same-sex couple who says they got married in Sweden and demand equal treatment in Estonia? What's gonna happen next time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U320	Let's just say it's conceivable, in view of the circumstances, that the county government will use such practice that it will not register marriages in the following cases, which can be assumed to be followed by legal proceedings. But the county government can also choose the direction that, when it comes to identical arguments, it will, on the basis of them, register these marriages, no matter what foreign they are. In fact, this depends on the practice of the institution. But now the question I answered the Pole. This is a broader issue and concerns the framing of rules by case law. There may also be international agreements, the furnishing of which may become much wider in time. The issue is that the keepers of these rules are the legislators, the countries that conclude international agreements. They actually have to do their will in such a way that, if they want to, they change those standards when they need to. The concept of justice in Continental Europe is indeed that it is the implementation of law, not the creation of law in ordinary courts on the basis of precedents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U321	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U322	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I'm taking another chance to educate myself because I'm not trained enough. You repeatedly use the expression'subjective law'. I haven't read it or used it anywhere. Why don't you explain what that means? In Estonian, the subjective opposite is objective. Are there objective rights? If, for example, we take the Constitution apart, where there is a list of rights in the second chapter, what makes it possible to divide them into subjective and non-subjective?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U323	Thank you. In particular, the subjective right is the right of the individual subject, his or her expected or actual right, which he or she defends in the proceedings. It's a subjective right. Yeah, everyone's personal right. Figuratively speaking, a person can, in principle, apply to a court only for the protection of a right which he or she himself has under a law. It could then be considered his subjective right. Objective rights are those rights granted to, say, an impersonal or undefined circle of subjects.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U324	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U325	Thank you. According to you, the Court held that the concept of public law had changed because the Law on partnership had been passed. There's not enough admission, probably from every first-year law student. What is needed is for the law to enter into force. If we have judges who do not know this thing and base themselves on inviolable legislation, then it is completely total and shameful incompetence. All the more so since the judges in this case have also wanted to take on the role of legislator. What can such incompetent and arbitrary judges do? What are the possibilities for the Minister, the prosecutor's office or the state to respond to this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U326	The judgment in question was ten pages long and I simply referred to some provisions. One of the arguments mentioned by the district court was the Cohabitation Act, but there were also a number of other arguments. It was noted, among other things, that this registration would not undermine anyone's subjective rights, once again this subjective right! In this way, this solution may not be contrary to the rules of public order. Now, I wouldn't want to slip on this road in any way so that, in the case of this verdict, which has been handed down under the arms of the Republic of Estonia, there would somehow be some kind of threat in the air. We can say that the arguments that formed the basis for the operative part of this judgment are, in our view, not appropriate or similar, but I do not want to in any way allow those appointed as independent judges to be the object of some threatening note, as if they deserve some form of revenge or punishment for it. As the Minister for Justice in office, I say that the independence of judges also means that, within their respective spheres of competence, they also make such decisions at their discretion. These decisions do not come from space; they are based on the laws, substantive and procedural rules that have created the legislator of the Republic of Estonia. And the legislator can also change those rules. However, as regards the prohibition on judges knowingly making wrong decisions under the threat of criminal punishment, I do not have any information at this time to claim that these judges knowingly made a decision that did not comply with the law, whether under the influence of anyone or for other reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U327	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U328	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. We know that by now, notaries have signed cohabitation agreements for same-sex couples for several decades, but they have not, of course, been able to enter them in the register. Do you consider the current situation to be normal, or is there any way to prevent notaries from entering into such contracts as long as they cannot be entered in the register?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U329	The Republic of Estonia has freedom of contract. I have spoken with a number of authoritative lawyers and they confirm that the type of contracts that individuals consider necessary to regulate their private relations could have been concluded, I don't know, 99% under the Law of Obligations Act. In fact, all the rhetoric that has been included in the Cohabitation Act is more of an ideological background. There are no issues relating to the organisation of private or civil relations between individuals. Persons organise their property and any private relationship with anyone and any motives. The issue is currently linked to the problems of registration. My view is that Estonia has a valid law. If the law in force does not provide for the regulation of any matters, even those of the register, that is the case. No draft law can be derived from the existing law; it cannot be accepted. When asked if the Cohabitation Act has actually entered into force, my point of view is that I have never denied it, that his "relationship with public authority" has not entered into force. This means that it provides for a special type of exercise of freedom of contract which these people have used. Probably about 60 pairs of both same sex and special sexes have used it to regulate their relationships.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U330	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. To the chair Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U331	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want this remote control to sound like a threat. I want judges Virgo Saarmetsa, Maret Altnurme and Kaire Pikamägi to roll their heads. I do not want us to have judges who are not contenting the right, but who are creating the right by attacking the principle of separation of powers provided for in the Constitution, are undermining the Estonian regime, which is attacking values that are clearly contrary to public opinion. I don't want judges like that. I don't want judges who break the law, and then they take out some inviolable laws to justify their violation. Let me give you a nice example. We know there's a huge madness in America right now because of Trump's curfew order. Every time he gives a new presidential order, it'll be challenged in court. The judges are completely out of control. I would like to remind you of an earlier president of the United States, Andrew Jackson, who is considered the first populist. He said, after the Supreme Court of the State had made a decision, which was also contrary to the political will, that the Court had made its decision, let him go and put it into practice. Judgments which are contrary to the law and are justified by fictitious arguments that violate the public's sense of justice, which undermine the authority of the court and the authority of the Riigikogu, do not have to be carried out. You can't do these things! And such judges must not be allowed to continue to be judges. The Minister does not want to tell us in any way how judges are disciplined. In fact, however, we also have mechanisms for disciplining judges. However, if it turns out that they do not work, different rules must be made in this Riigikogu. Our party's programme clearly states that judges should not be appointed for life, judges should be elected. At least judges of the district courts and Supreme Courts should be elected. It cannot be that some aunts come together and simply pick up and reform Estonian laws. And then they decide no one to touch them. It just doesn't work! This is an attack on democracy and it ends very badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U332	I would like to speak on the subject, Mr Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U333	Mr President of the sitting! I asked the Minister of Justice what his jargon expression'subjective rights' meant, and he explained something that it should be the same as a private right. Personal law is an ancient concept and there are long theories about it. There's no way I can tell where this'subjective right' has come from. It cannot somehow come from the German cultural space. Apparently, the bad English jargon is behind it. But that's it. The second problem is that we had this confrontation between the Cohabitation Act and the Couple Act, which ended with the start of these partnership agreements with notaries in Estonia. Our group so understood that the next step is that if someone's common property is born as a result of a partnership agreement or some sort of separate property is born, they will be recorded in the registers so that their potential business partners will be informed. Otherwise, no one knows about these contracts. It really surprises me, and I think it is scandalous that all those people who pushed into the implementation of the cohabitation law have now completely forgotten about it. But completing this job is their business. Otherwise, it would be like a provocation, and they wouldn't be fulfilling the minimum mission they declared.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U334	I'll have Mart Helme next.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U335	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything is ready to go, so I'll be very brief. We are very much loved to talk about the rule of law. The honourable Minister of Justice has also repeatedly emphasised today that Estonia is the rule of law. Unfortunately, this particular case, on which we made an inquiry, smells of Stalinism. It's ungrated. I understand that, of course, the Republic of Estonia cannot be compared to the Stalinian Soviet Union, but if one troika decides that it will take over the creation of the law and the interpretation of the law, and in the Republic of Estonia, it is just as if there is no institution to turn to to to disprove it in order to challenge the subjective interpretation of the legal space, then we are in a very bad position. It's just like a troika whose verdict is final, there's no appeal, and the convict is about to be put to the wall. Once again, I stress: it is patronized and I do not directly compare the Republic of Estonia with the Stalinist Soviet Union, but there is a place of thought here in my opinion. This is not the way things are supposed to be done in a state of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U336	Next up, Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U337	Ladies and gentlemen, Martin here recalled the distant times of American history and the time of my colleague Mart the Soviet Union. I recall the bronze night of this law 10 years ago. Its organisers Reva, Klenski, and who they were, do not immediately recall all the names of the court was condemned innocent. It's exactly the same case! Yet, it was quite clear that these were guilty people. The prosecutor of the miracle found all the motivation to justify the judgment to be completely unfounded. Many other members of the legal community also expressed great surprise. Attorney-at-law Aivar Pilv said that there were enough articles in our laws that could be used to convict them, but the judge acquitted them, even though they incited people to riot, resulting in the whole city being disrupted, looted and burned, assaulting police officers. They all went unpunished. And nothing was done, so it was. Do we really live in a country where judges make any decisions that come to their minds using their free powers? It is said that we have no reason to believe that this or another decision would have been somehow malicious or law-avoiding. I'm sorry! We have laws, we have to comply with them. We have procedures that we have to follow. We're not some banana republic where aunts or troikas do what they want. We are the rule of law, and you can't do that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U338	There's no more calls. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, again, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U339	Good people's representation! I certainly cannot agree with the rhetoric used in the speech chair of the parliament of the Republic of Estonia, either figuratively or literally thinking that the heads of the judges must fly because of a decision. And the chairman of the hearing will remain silent. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U340	Good minister! It is our custom that the President of the sitting does not intervene in the speeches, and I do not wish to do so in the future. This good practice has been in the Riigikogu for a long time. I am also sure that my colleague meant that head flying in a transferred sense. If not, of course it's deplorable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U341	However, you have just intervened in my speech. Actually, that's the question. The rule of law means that judges make decisions on the basis of the law. We, as Parliament, do not have to withdraw from the responsibility that the legislator has the power to formulate standards. The responsibility for putting together such a mix-up during the previous parliamentary term and for this stalemate and the failure to make adequate decisions on this matter in the current composition does not fall on the judges. As far as the definition of public policy is concerned, we have been hit by erosion, which is not the beginning of justice. The judges have followed the legislator's signal. This signal has come from this Toompea, it hasn't come from anywhere around the corner. It is a question of how, and if at all, the legislator is able to express its will by laying down rules. Are there any of these possibilities? Yes, these opportunities exist, both at the constitutional level, at the level of procedural rules and at the level of substantive law. There can be no way in Estonia that it is up to the courts to decide on moral choices. We had a similar debate when we had survived the bronze night, which was like Mr Põllea. Whether the judges did it or not, specific decisions were made. But the exact same question came up today, Uno was also present when we discussed the problem of drunk drivers. In the same way, if we are not satisfied with the practice of punishment, we cannot take this responsibility away from the legislator. The legislator holds the levers; he tells us how to view one or another's act or inaction. You can't put all moral choices on trial. And when you feel that something needs to be corrected, it starts with legislative positions, changes in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U342	Thank you. It is no longer possible to speak. We're done answering the last question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-20_U343	It is now possible for all those who wish to sign up for a speech in a free microphone after the hammer hit. I don't see any requests. Thank you all, and I wish you a pleasant day, as much as there is left of this day! Closure of the sitting at 11.41 p.m.
