ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Please, let's do the presence check! 48 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time, but most importantly, the Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, and Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Today is the idea that I will give you the opportunity to ask an additional question. Maybe we can get to the point where we can deal with all seven issues. One additional question for the questioner and one for the whole hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U2	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, congratulations first. Your government has received more than 90% support from non-Estonians and 80% support from the Centre Party. But I don't congratulate you on your methods. Your messages on citizenship policy, language policy, education policy and statements on Russia are certainly not the ones in which I would like to compete with you, here we do not have a common part. However, I would like to look for a common part in Estonian, for example. Yesterday was known to be a native language day. Do you have any good news about language policy? How much have you been able to deal with language policy in the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, first of all, thank you very much for this question. I think that any constructive recognition is commendable and, of course, I would like to congratulate you on that. I think the ratings of all parties are exactly what they are. However, as regards whether the coalition has any new direction in terms of better, more accessible and affordable teaching of the Estonian language, it is. First of all, I'll start with the same Estonian-language houses. The government coalition has agreed that there will be institutions that offer people across Estonia better opportunities to learn the Estonian language. These houses come to Tallinn and also to the city of Narva. This is one specific direction that is certainly important to improve the learning of Estonian. I also point out that the government has approved the intention of the Ministry of Education and Research to start developing an Estonian language strategy for the years 2018 to 2027. The government made this decision on 2 February. The government's priority is also to start teaching Estonian more effectively and better in kindergarten. Here I think it is good that this principle has been supported, maintained and pursued by all governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U5	Jürgen Ligi, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U6	Thank you. There are plenty of houses in Estonia. Calling something a house on the subject of language is obviously not a success. However, from the measures you mentioned, I recognise a few things and I am pleased about them. It is true that the obligation to adopt a language strategy is not an initiative of the new government, but there is a problem in this regard. You have left the Estonian Language Council, which should help to develop it, for several months without approval. This Council closed down in November. I'll remind you to do it. But instead of houses, I'd still speak the language. One of my initiatives was to put pressure on the public sector to improve its language, including the imposition of language courses, rather, the imposition of language training in coordination with the State Chancellery. Are you familiar with this subject? Has this movement gained interest, and has anyone shown activity? Is this thing starting to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U7	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, the house thing. What is a name may not be content. Of course, there is no purpose in building two new houses, a part of a house or a space in Tallinn or Narva. On the contrary, construction is not a priority here, the priority is really content, i.e. better and more accessible Estonian language learning. There is no need to make criticism of the Estonian Language Council. On Thursday of this week, or tomorrow, at the meeting of the Government of the Republic, there will be a point on the creation of a language council. If you ask why this has taken time, I say that we have asked all the parties and their representatives, such as the Institute of the Estonian Language, the Estonian Language Society, the University of Tartu, the University of Tallinn, as well as the Language Inspectorate, representatives of the professional associations of language teachers, the Integration and Migration Foundation Our People. The Language Council is certainly very important and necessary and will be carried forward. I believe that tomorrow the composition of the Estonian Language Council will be approved and can begin its work. Now, these are your slightly broader language issues, paying more attention to the Estonian language and the right language in the public sector, you even mentioned Estonian language courses. I think this is the right idea, this is the right direction. Is it handled by the State Chancellery and how hard is it? I think this concerns the administration of all ministries. After all, we want our beautiful language, our beloved language to be properly used and our Spelling to be given attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! When I came to this hall, I picked up an Estonian-language newspaper called Midweek. This editorial is accompanied by a pamphlet, without the author of the article, entitled 'The Black List of Propastopi drags into the past of Estonia' and where your party newspaper essentially attacks volunteers of the Defence League, compares them with almost Nazis. Tell me, please, what are you going to do about this now, as chairman of the Centre Party, and does this authorless writing express your views? It's in Estonian.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U10	Thank you. It's a good thing, of course, that you're probably the second party chairman to quote Midweek here in the last few weeks. Hanno Pevkur, President of the Reform Party, did this last time. I think it's a good thing if we read different publications, including Midweek. That's great. If you are talking about the Defence League and, on the contrary, my great recognition, respect for those people who are in the Defence League, who devote their activities in the best sense to patriotic education, who devote their activities to the protection of Estonia, to the preservation of Estonia. I haven't read this article, you've just gotten ahead of me this morning with the Midweek reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U12	The next question is the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palo. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! My question is, of course, aimed at developing entrepreneurship. The European Centre for Nuclear Research, which we all know under the abbreviation CERN, has so far been a very innovative research centre. Estonia has participated mainly through research, the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics, Tallinn University, Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu. Is and how much Estonia plans to expand its participation so that the transitions from this major centre will also be into our economy, our business? I'm just asking for it with an emphasis on high-tech entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U14	Thank you, good questioner! A very important theme setting in itself. Indeed, if we look at the Estonian economy and the average productivity of industry, it is 55% of the European Union average. I checked that if it were at the average level of the European Union, the Estonian economy would be about 3 billion euros and the state budget 1.5 billion euros larger. If we target higher wages, better manage and increase people's wealth, this will not be possible without increasing productivity. Productivity will increase in turn when companies do smarter work and smarter work will be done if, among other things, R &amp; D activities are carried out. Let it be said here that the concern in Estonia is that our companies contribute only 0.6% of GDP to research and development, which is a very low figure. What do we do now? When we talk about CERN, joining it in itself really gives Estonian entrepreneurs the opportunity to participate in the procurement of research and development announced by CERN. Similarly, our scientists and engineers could go to work placements there, which is also a big deal, and then return to their home country. We must take into account that the working principle of CERN is somewhat different from that of ESA, for example, the European Space Agency, of which we are a member. This cooperation is well established. The principle is that as much as we contribute, so many orders will return to Estonia. There is no such guarantee in CERN. If we were to become a full member of CERN, we should consider that the state will spend some EUR 1.4 million a year on this. But we are ready to consider this decision seriously, and we have also made a request to the Minister for Finance for an additional budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U15	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U16	Mr President! Dear Minister, Here we go. It is known to be either an associated member or a full member of the CERN. Is there a demand for Estonian entrepreneurship? After all, this is one of the basic things that we need to develop our high-tech business.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U17	Thank you. To conclude, yes, we do not have a guarantee that this money will come back because procurement is open to all members equally. Those countries and companies that are better will also win this procurement. In this sense, it is very important that, if we decide to take up membership, we should really help our companies to participate successfully in these procurements so that this money comes into the country and we can have experience. The Ministry of Economic Affairs carried out a study in February this year. A total of 41 companies eventually participated in the study. It was meant to be much broader, but other companies did not respond. Of these 41, 38 said that they would be interested in taking part in CERN's procurement and working with CERN. Of course, the interest does not guarantee that they will win the procurement, but it is a good start to consider whether or not we should make this investment on the state side at all. As Minister for Enterprise, I have made a request to the Minister for Finance to allocate this amount. Next week, the Scientific and Development Council will meet, chaired by the Prime Minister, where this issue will be discussed in depth. I think we'll be smarter after that. If financially possible, there is a very high probability that we are applying for membership. At the same time, I would like to stress that this has to be very well thought out, because the precedent that could later leave CERN has not been very well seen. And the fixed cost is very high. So everything has to be well thought out, it has to be agreed with companies, and we will also have to help businesses to participate in the procurement process. So later on, the state needs more than just money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am extending Krista Aru's question to an area close to it. Namely, Estonia has been a member of the European Space Agency for a few years, and my question is this: can we also talk about some clear momentum that it has brought into the Estonian economy? Has it opened any doors for Estonian entrepreneurs, or is it opening more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U20	Thank you! When we talk about joining the European Space Agency, it has been a success. But we must take into account that part of this success, in addition to the performance of our own companies, is certainly that, according to the ESA principle, the vast majority of the annual membership fee will be returned to the same country in the form of procurement, i.e. businesses are much more likely to win. However, despite the fact that the return of money is guaranteed, companies have done a good job, worked hard. One example of what R &amp; D can be found in this project is this. I do not remember the name of the company at the moment, but the content they were working on was that in the future, for example, the PRIA would not have to go on the spot to check whether the fields for which the European Union is paying money had been mowed and left behind. To this end, a suitable device has been developed to see whether or not the fields have been mowed from the top of the sky without leaving the office. It has benefited both the company that developed the equipment as a result of research and development and a specific body such as the PRIA.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U22	Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu asks a question from Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U23	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister of Justice! Stories have reached us, now a second story about how a refugee brought from Syria to Estonia has set his wife on fire. One case was in Haapsalu, and that's what you've been here to answer our questions about. There is very little public information about this story, and so far we know very little about it. The story that has just happened on Lasnamägi has attracted more public attention. Of course, the way things were approached in the beginning is very surprising. The police and the prosecutor's office came up with very strange versions that she was suddenly on fire or that she had an accident at work in the kitchen. By now, however, the prosecutor's office has come to the conclusion that it was apparently domestic violence or attempted murder. But I learned that the DA's office has begun an investigation into unwary health damage. There are much tougher paragraphs to this. Can you comment on what principle the prosecutor's office is looking for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U24	Thank you. First of all, the clear rule of law is that if there has been a crime, it must be punished, and the crime is qualified according to the circumstances underlying the act. We have two cases. In one case, the person has been charged pursuant to three paragraphs of the Penal Code: § 121 (2), § 141 (1) and § 120 (1). In another tragic case in which proceedings are ongoing, criminal proceedings have been initiated for the characteristics of § 119 (1) of the Penal Code. However, I would like to point out that what happens when a state charge is made, when it comes to the qualification under the Penal Code, when it comes to assessing the facts and collecting evidence, it becomes clear in the course of the procedure. The prosecutor's office will certainly treat these serious crimes against individuals as a priority, and it is important that we do not intend to silence this case in any way. The prosecutor's office shall provide the public with information which is of public interest, given that personal data concerning the victim shall not be disclosed to the public in an understandable manner. So there is nothing unusual about this if qualifications change during the proceedings. Whether it becomes more difficult or easier or what the prosecution's conclusion is in the case, for which it is independent criminal proceedings. However, I would like to point out that, according to the court's qualifications, both persons who in one case are considered to be suspects and, in the other case, are also subject to arrest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U25	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U26	Thank you. Paragraph 119 is entitled 'Serious damage to health from negligence' and the sentence is either a financial penalty or a term of imprisonment of up to one year. However, the Penal Code gives us a whole series of paragraphs, some of which you also mentioned yourself, which are much stricter, where there is no fine, but only a prison sentence, and a prison sentence for more than five years, up to eight years. That raises a serious question to me. Why is it the impression that in the case of refugees, a paragraph is being found that almost doesn't relate to the matter, and which means that a conviction is much harder to get from the court? Or even if he does, even if it remains in force in court and is found guilty on the basis of it, the punishment is abnormally mild. I think it gives out a very bad signal. This leads us to what has happened in Sweden and elsewhere, where this group has a sense of impunity. Is there anything you can do to correct it at the DA's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U27	Thank you. I can assure you that the Estonian state does not classify crimes or understand penalties based on whether the person is a refugee, a person living in Estonia for a long time or a person born in Estonia. The offence must be adequately punished, regardless of these circumstances. And I can also assure you that the Estonian prosecutor's office operates on this principle. The prosecutor's office started criminal proceedings on the day that the Alert Centre received a call about the case under one of the Penal Code clauses. I want to point out that this took place a few hours after it was even known that there was a fire accident, where the person had been burned. Whether it is a section of the Penal Code or a section of the Penal Code, how to classify it, it is clear during the proceedings. I would like to point out to you: if, on the day of the accident, a criminal case is initiated on the basis of a single paragraph in order to collect evidence, make it clear whether it is a suspect or a criminal offence, there is nothing rare or extraordinary about it if the basis of the procedure is later re-classified. Therefore, it is certainly not possible to establish a starting point for subsequent prosecutions under this initial section. In Estonia, the law is paid by law, the law is furnished by independent prosecutors and justice courts, who do so according to the actual seriousness of the act. There is no lighter ruler measurement or a lighter attitude. I can assure you of that in no uncertain terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U28	Henn Põllamas, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U29	Thank you. It is worth recalling the reaction to the fire of Veo, which was much different and more violent. The law gives refugees or asylum seekers the opportunity to stay away from Estonia for six months in one year without having to register their departure. We don't know where they are, when this so-called holiday or trip started, maybe they're in their own country at the time. Other countries of the European Union have taken very active steps to check whether they are going home and, if so, that there can be no refugee, i.e. the asylum given to them is unfounded. Do we also intend to tighten up our laws on this and strengthen our supervision so that we cannot simply take advantage of our goodwill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U30	Thank you. When we come back to the previous question, in the two cases where questions are ultimately qualified and assessed by the court, we need to review the rules on the basis of which a person is profiled and identified as a threat to public order or security. This is something I certainly consider necessary, taking into account also those cases which have been registered as facts. There can be no other way around. I think that, also in the light of subsequent reactions, our rules on the application of the Penal Code to certain persons when they are subject to criminal penalties and related to expulsion must be reviewed. I think we need to make proposals here without any stretch. As regards the movement of persons specifically granted international protection, as far as I am aware, the Ministry of the Interior has not formally proposed the detention of persons or the restriction of their rights in this area. I'm sure we need to collect information. Information is necessary. I hope that the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Social Affairs, institutions that adequately assess the situation of beneficiaries of international protection, and if there is a need, they will also make proposals to tighten the rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U32	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and asks Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You are the Prime Minister because you are the chairman of the Centre Party, and these roles can only be separated by leaving one office. I would like an answer today to the question of the Centre Party, the role of the media and the culture of governance. If we look at the unique power of the Centre Party in Tallinn, in 2012 just under 3 million Tallinn Television were spent, in 2016 more than 3.5 million were spent. In addition to the newspapers of the Capital and Stolitsa, once again a few million. In essence, as we all know, these channels are dedicated to advertising only one party. Democratic governance does not include the idea that the Prime Minister's party has its own advertising channel for taxpayers' money. I have a simple question. Good Jüri, Prime Minister and Chairman of the Centre Party, when will the last employee erase the light?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U34	Thank you, good questioner and honourable member of the Riigikogu! You spoke here of a single power in Tallinn. Well, it hasn't been the only power of any kind. I remember that in 2001-2004 we had a pretty good cooperation with the Reform Party in Tallinn and had a lot of important things done. You thought differently. You thought differently and then, at the end of 2004, you changed this Tallinn city power. Since then, elections have been held in 2005, 2009 and 2013 and in Tallinn the power is exercised by the party or electoral union that has received support from the residents of Tallinn. I believe that next time, on October 15, 2017, we will measure up in a good competition, good Kristen, with you. I am actually absolutely convinced that with the experience of a member of the Riigikogu as long as you have the experience of a minister, but also, for example, working in the Tallinn City System, you know very well that the local government is an independent level of power in which decisions are made by the local government council. But if you ask me, as chairman of the Centre Party, I think it is necessary to provide this information about the local government's activities. Of course, this information cannot be tilted to one side or the other; it must primarily serve the citizens of the city or, in other cases, the inhabitants of the rural municipality. This is what I have always emphasised in my party, and not only in Tallinn, but also in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U35	Kristen Michal, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U36	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister! However, somehow it has become that the wallet of the city of Tallinn and the Centre Party often gets confused. If we look at this so-called positive programme, it is just before the elections that self-advertisement will take place. Just like that, the news came recently that Tallinn ordered a little over half a million euros of programmes from the Perõi Baltiski Canal. We have also discussed before Parliament how the Minister of Education and Science gave an interview to Sputnik. The problem is both the concealment of the interview and the fact that Sputnik is certainly not a benevolent or neutral channel. Then there is what Andres Herkel referred to here earlier, i.e. the Central Week, or the voice of the Central Party, is attacking the Defence League today. I have a simple question: when will it end? Do you approve of what's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U37	Thank you, good questioner! The wallet of the city of Tallinn and of any party must not be confused under any circumstances. If it's gone wrong, you have to take responsibility for it, and sometimes you have to learn painful lessons. But I hope these lessons have been instructive, including for my party. Lately, there have indeed been judgments about earlier times, according to which our party has had to bear the costs. We have certainly not rejected these views. The subject of the Defence League, however, should not be included in this propaganda at all. The Centre Party supports the Defence League, the activities of the Defence League very strongly. There are people in the Central Party who are active members of the Defence League. It seems to me, a good questioner, that you have the municipal elections ahead of you. These are topics that you think will bring your party and your thoughts into the picture. When we are talking about local government elections, I suggest that we deal with these issues that are important for the residents of Tallinn, but also for other local governments. These are certainly road maintenance; they are certainly school maintenance, public transport issues and sustainability. I think these are substantive issues that are relevant both to the residents of Tallinn and to the residents of other municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! There's a saying in the crowd about what you're doing right now: you're just making it numb. If you were defending the city of Tallinn earlier, which can fund its so-called media channels and inform the electorate through them, then I would like to know why it is justified that the same newspapers spread across Estonia and are paid for with the money of the Tallinn taxpayer. There is no direct link here with the specific voter of Tallinn. Does the same role that you now play as Prime Minister not violate the reputation of the Estonian state with regard to freedom and ethics of the press at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U40	Thank you. I don't know exactly what kind of newspapers you mean, but the newspapers in the district, as well as the Capital, have existed in Tallinn during different coalitions. The newspapers of the districts were also published when the Centre Party was not in power, for example from mid-October 2004 until spring 2005. These papers have always provided information about the editing of the district, and there is usually a column of the district district manager. I understand you, of course, there's nothing to blame for, because you may not be familiar with these pages. But there are a lot of good people in your own group now, who have been part-parents of the city, even one Member of the European Parliament has been a district manager, and have, I think, shared information with residents of the same good will, whether in Haaberst, Kristiine, Central or Nõmme. But the fact that the city or public sector media and party media cannot be confused, as you said at the beginning of your question, is, of course, correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U42	Ain Lutsepal is a question for the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U43	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, The Ministry of Justice has a legislative reduction plan. Its aim is to avoid over-regulation and over-production of laws; convincing reasoning and analysis of practical practices, the use of a simple and clear legal and professional language, a legal culture aimed at reducing red tape are necessary. The question is this: how has the Ministry met the objective of a qualitative transition from quantitative legislation to legislation when nearly half a hundred draft legislative acts and amendments have reached the Riigikogu between spring 2016 and now? What's changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U44	Thank you. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is necessary, first of all, for all legislation at the level of the law to have an intention to develop and to analyse the impact. Impact analysis is needed to determine whether a law is needed at all and what its impact on administrative burdens is. I am pleased that the quality of the analysis has certainly improved in the light of the plan to reduce the volume of legislation. Half of our legislation comes from the legislation of the European Union. In this context, one of the priorities of the Estonian Presidency in the area of justice, in the area of legislation, is that less European legislation. Rather, we are dealing with what brings more markets, we are working on ensuring freedoms, not on producing additional administrative burdens. This is certainly also a guide for our officials, who are working in hundreds of working groups during the Presidency. The second aspect of reducing the volume of legislation is that when we look at the previous Parliament, there was essentially no law in Estonia that would not have been amended during its composition. The Ministry of Justice has also started reviewing the legislation on governance with the aim that it is precisely the internal issues of administration that we should not often regulate at the level of the law, but that these should be issues of more flexible administration itself. I hope that, if we achieve this goal, we will also be able to reduce the proportion of mechanical lawmaking machinery by number. As far as the business environment is concerned, it is important, as I said, that we do not increase the administrative burden, but be able to make decisions when introducing new regulations, if they are objectively unavoidable and necessary, also on the basis of the 'zero bureaucracy' principle, in order to cut existing regulations or bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U45	Thank you very much, Minister of Justice. This is all very nice, but now Ain Lutsepp is asking his point of clarification. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U46	Good President! Honourable Minister of Justice! Clear guidelines in legislative acts are necessary, but there is, in fact, a risk of overregulation, because detailed legislative provisions and frequent changes to them prevent implementation practices and practices from arising. Doesn't this place cross a line from which officials and judges no longer need detailed rules at law level?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U47	Thank you. This is certainly a matter where I regard as a toxic or radioactive phenomenon the whole text of the law, particularly as regards procedural law. Here we can see that the Ministry of Justice is very cautious about 'codification' projects in the light of the legislative reduction plan. There were earlier times when this codification was a virtue of itself, i.e. that we are still rewriting and rewriting the whole text of the law. But as you pointed out, this means that the subjects of the law to whom the law is intended will actually lose their ability to orient themselves in this maze, as well as the fact that the practice of implementing one nor another norm has not yet developed when a new norm comes into being. For example, the Ministry of Justice abandoned the new code of conduct previously planned. There are other examples. For example, if you look at the new Building and Planning Act, which was also done as a complete code, the problems of implementing it are facing municipalities, builders and developers, as well as ordinary people who are dealing with new norms. While these rules are intended to be consumer-friendly and systematic, a new right necessarily also requires the acquisition of this right. Right must be a natural phenomenon, his virtue is in his stability. Less law change than it is in itself! The thing that we want to change with the new legislation must be the rational need that has emerged from life or solves the problem of the future. I certainly hope to work with Parliament on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U48	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, There's a lot of interesting ideas coming from the Ministry of Justice lately, but if you read them, I think there's a permanence of the risk of overregulation here. I ask you first of all that you have also prepared a plan that involves overproduction of ministerial portfolios. How's that? This would certainly add to party positions. In my opinion, Mart Laar should not go beyond the limits set in his own time. That may be the question of the Constitutional Court. You're not going to make our country more clumsy and less mobile, less sustainable with these plans, are you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U50	Thank you. We have a rule of law, and if we in the rule of law give people the right to go to court to defend their constitutional rights, as stated in our country's constitution, it is not making the country more clumsy, it is not new bureaucracy. In 2003 the Supreme Court itself has said in its ruling that Estonian people must have this right. In the rule of law, this means that it must also be clearly stated in the law. The opposite attitude is, in my view, disrespect for the current practice of the Supreme Court as well as for the right of everyone enshrined in our Constitution. Similarly, it is my position on the plan to reduce the volume of legislation that we must also reduce the volume of government in Estonia. All initiatives that trigger an increase in the volume of government must be treated in the negative rather than in favour of them. The question is therefore whether, in view of the future, Estonia has a government sector as large as we currently have, given that our people, who have to maintain this government, have decreased in number. I think that, in such fundamental constitutional matters, the choice also lies in whether we could have a larger government in our composition or whether we could have a smaller parliament in our composition. And certainly my proposals are driven by the fact that the volume of governance is smaller and that the institutions that implement this governance are smaller and more flexible, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U52	The Minister of Justice will answer again, but now Raivo Põldaru is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. It is a question for you as a minister with a conservative world view, and it concerns that our penal code prohibits sexual relations between an adult and a person under 14 years of age, but does not prohibit conversation between minors. I mean, no talking about it, but it's like it allows for sexual relations between them. How do you see and what do you think all acts that are more or less punishable in society are also punishable? Don't you think it's like too much freedom here, especially in today's open society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U54	Thank you. The right of children to a protected life and the right to freedom from danger are certainly one of the fundamental rights of the child and must be protected by penal law. A large number of paragraphs of the Penal Code regulate this legal benefit, the physical integrity of children, the right of children not to be abused. These standards are furnished. Your question was whether the Code should also criminalise entering sexual relations with a person under the age of 14 (in this case, the criminal liability begins at the age of 14) by a person under the age of 18 years. I can say that there are a number of cases where this is criminalised. For example, in a situation where someone is being exploited, a relationship benefit is offered, or where another minor sexually attracts a person under 14 years of age. So there is a practice of penalising the sexual abuse committed by minors, which, fortunately, is carried out in a limited number of cases. With regard to the problem you referred to, the practitioners have not said that we are dealing with a legal gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U55	Raivo Põldaru, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. A little more than a year ago, Delfis published your comments on this issue. You said the Ministry would analyze the need to make a difference. The reality of life is that there are schools that are closed or where students are constantly away from home. People have expectations that this relationship between minors will be dealt with by the police and that some solutions will be found. So people have expectations of this matter being dealt with, and your ministry has promised to analyse it a little over a year ago. Has it been done and how have things evolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U57	Thank you. What has been analysed by the Ministry and on which we are also considering possible changes is whether we are setting a certain age limit in a case where, on the one hand, it is a person under the age of 18 but young over the age of 14 and, on the other hand, a person of adult age who can be expected to have social maturity and influence over a minor, undoubtedly so great as to have sexual contact. This problem certainly needs to be analysed. If we look at the surrounding countries, they have regulated it more rigidly than Estonia has done. But the problem is not limited to the sexual relations between minors. The cases of violence involving tempting or exercising influence are also mentioned in the provisions of the criminal law on minors. I would like to point out that, when it comes to self-confidence by virtue of influence last year, there were nearly 20 cases where sexual relations with a person under the age of 18 were attempted by gaining control of a person, it has also been criminalised in the Republic of Estonia. I think it's wise that we've done this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U58	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U59	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. As I understand it, a year ago it was announced that they were going to analyze, and today we can say that the thumbs have been twisted for a year. No real suggestions, ideas or solutions have come up. In Estonia, the limit for the prohibition of sexual relations with minors is 14 years of age, which is one of the lowest in Europe. In fact, there is no lower than that elsewhere in Europe, mostly the limit is 16 years. Couldn't one of the things Estonia could do, what your ministry could propose as a result of this so-called analysis, for example, be raising the age limit to 16 years of age?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U60	Thank you. I think it's a broader debate. It is right that in Finland and Latvia it is 16 years old, in Estonia it is 14 years old. For me, however, it is not so much a question of relations between minors, but rather that, when an adult takes advantage of his influence over a young person under 18 years of age, such influence in sexual relations has been criminalised. So, in certain cases, entering into sexual relations with persons under the age of 18 in the Republic of Estonia has been criminalised and, as I said, nearly 20 such cases had taken place last year. If we reject the element of influence and talk about setting a certain age limit, several countries have gone that way. In this respect, the ministry's forensic experts are now assessing whether we should have a certain age limit, given the logic of the difference between the age of a young person, on the one hand, and the age of an adult, on the other. It is clear that when we talk about the relationship between a person aged 16 and a person aged 17 or between two young people aged 15 and 16 on the one hand, and a person aged 40 or 50 and a young person aged 15 on the other, the nature of these relationships varies considerably from a social perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U62	The Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology Urve Palo answers and asks Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. As Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, you have taken as your flag letter the construction of rental houses in Estonia, from the tax revenue, i.e. the state budget. Experts, as well as some of your coalition associates, are quite critical of this idea. The essence of the criticism is that there is actually no market failure in Estonia where the state should help. And we cannot forget the fact that 20% of rental income is exempt from income tax, which in fact allows real estate that is going to be rented to be developed in the private sector. Why do you want to build rental houses in Tallinn and Tartu, for example, where there is no market failure? It is rather damaging the market and the value of all people's real estate is decreasing. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U64	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, at the beginning of the question, you said that as Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, I have adopted the construction of public rental homes as my flag letter. I have three areas for which I am responsible: entrepreneurship, information technology and housing. If we are talking about an apartment building or even a residential building, it is part of a building, which is the third area. And there are indeed two main issues that I would like to address. One is that more digital solutions, or BIM planning, will be used in construction in Estonia. The other side is that the state would develop a measure that would help local governments to build municipal houses. Since Estonia is mostly outside Tallinn and Tartu very clearly dealing with areas of market failure, these are areas where the construction of new apartment buildings for rent is more expensive than their later apartments, we do not see that such apartment buildings are usually rented. One good example is of Viljandi lately, and I only welcome this example. But we generally see that 96% of new apartment buildings have been built outside Harjumaa, Tartu and Pärnu in the last 20 years. The housing fund is ageing rapidly, but if we want the economy to develop throughout Estonia, it is very important that we increase the mobility of the workforce. This means that a person can also move to a new place of employment if he or she wants to. This is not often the case at the moment. There is a job, entrepreneurs would like to expand, to create more jobs, but there are no people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U65	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U66	Thank you. I'm going to specify the last question. The question was that you have expressed your wish to build rental houses in Tallinn and Tartu. These are two cities, for which it is certainly not possible to say that the rental market is not working. What kind of problem are you solving here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U67	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is a wish that Tartu and Tallinn will also be able to participate in the competition for this measure. The total volume per municipality is 2.5 million. When we are talking about Tallinn and Tartu, we are, of course, not talking about the mobility of the workforce, but about another problem that we have, namely, the lack of social housing. Overall, we need to consider that we, as a country, need to be more competitive. This really means, on the one hand, that more investments are made, but, on the other hand, that people want and can live in this country. A place of residence, or dwelling, has a role to play. In our climate, this is a primary necessity. For example, there are 5,000 people in the order of social housing in Tallinn. People's incomes are often very low, and if you take down the price of a rental dwelling and utilities, there's just not much left. The person must then decide whether he will stay here in Tallinn or go over the bay and live there in a social dwelling that is kindly offered. The state must do everything for its part, on the one hand, to help low-paid people manage, live here in Estonia, raise their families and work, and, on the other hand, to ensure that entrepreneurship really develops outside large cities. By this we would certainly be more attractive to new investments, both from the outside and from our Estonian entrepreneurs. The Government Union has declared that we are taking all measures to ensure that the Estonian economy gets a new start and the inequality is reduced. Businesses have also said that this latter is also a very, very important issue in which public intervention is required.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U68	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U69	Minister, I will ask you one more question. In general, it is known that the construction of rental homes has been practiced worldwide in millions of cities, where it has actually been a huge catalyst to keep the rural regions running even faster. You indicated that there are places in Estonia where these market failures still exist. Can you tell us what studies this statement is based on and where the results of these studies can be found? And the second question: do you believe that you will receive support from the parliament, the Riigikogu, to develop such a thing in Estonia? This is quite an expensive undertaking you're introducing here today. And do all the other social problems go away in the face of the need for these rental homes? Once again, thank you very much in advance!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U70	Thank you, good questioner! I would say that we cannot afford not to take good care of our people and of the business environment. We can't afford that, it's not about whether we let municipal buildings be built or not. The construction of municipal buildings is part of the way people can do better and the Estonian economy can develop. You asked us what research we were relying on. Several such studies have been carried out at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. People have been asked about more than 1,000 people in one study, among other things, whether they would be ready to move from their current place of residence and under what conditions. Based on this study, most of the answers suggest that they are prepared to do so if quality housing is available where the job is being moved. Today's people do not want to live on old shocked surfaces, buy them or rent them. It is recommended that you first rent high-quality housing and see if you can stay in the workplace if you like it and then invest in property later. Studies have also been carried out in municipalities and asked whether they would participate in such a programme if the state offered it. I would stress that it is very common in other parts of the world that the state supports the building of municipal buildings. Estonia is a bad exception here. The municipalities were very interested. One third of them said they'd like to participate. The city of Kuressaare, where you come from, has shown great interest. Businesses there want to invest, but there is nowhere to settle people and therefore there is no new workforce.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U71	I will also stop dealing with this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 8th working week of the V plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? A little clarification, indeed, we are starting a Wednesday session today. Thank you to everyone who noticed! I repeat the question: is there a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? No, it's not. In that case, we'll do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U73	The first item is the third reading of Bill 322 of the Act amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 322 and we will go to the preparation of the vote. I am voting on the draft Act 322 amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U74	The second item is the third reading of the draft Act 281 amending the Traffic Act, the State Tax Act and the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote of 281 and we will go to the preparation of the vote. I shall vote on the draft law on traffic, state fees and conformity of products initiated by the Government of the Republic 281. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 6 against and no abstentions. The draft law amending the Traffic Act, the State Tax Act and the Product Compliance Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U75	The third item is the second reading of the draft 389 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Increasing the State guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank' submitted by the Government of the Republic. I ask Aivar Sõerdi, Member of the Monetary Commission, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision was discussed by the Committee on Finance in the preparation of its second reading at its meeting on 7 and 13 March. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 13 March, the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees did not submit any proposals. The text of the draft has introduced linguistic and technical specifications. Very briefly, on the substance of the draft. The decision of the Riigikogu gives its consent to increase the guarantees granted by the Estonian State to two loan instruments of Nordic Investment Bank, or Nordic Investment Bank, which will result in Estonia's percentage participation in guarantees granted to the bank becoming equal to the share capital of the bank. I will also briefly review what has happened in the Commission. There was only one question raised in the Commission that I asked myself. This question actually started at first reading when it was raised by Mr Helme. The question was that the part of the paid-up capital was also to be paid by the Estonian State for a contribution of EUR 778378, and the explanatory memorandum showed that it had already been transferred. My colleague asked how it is possible that this money has been transferred before we have made a decision here in the Riigikogu. The answer was that there is no problem, as this amount is in the state budget for 2017. According to the 2017 state budget, this amount is not found there. If you remember, we also raised this issue at first reading when there was a minister here. I asked myself how and where it was included in the budget. The Minister did not answer that question; he simply said that you yourself have approved the budget, which you will ask for. That is the same question I put again before the second reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Commission decided that we would make a written inquiry to the Ministry. This week, a reply came from the Ministry stating that the payment to Nordic Investment Bank was planned in the state budget for 2017 under § 1, part 6, section 9, financing transactions. Then it was added that there was always an explanation in the draft explanatory memorandum about the amounts included in the law, but this time it did not, unfortunately, arrive there in time. The Ministry stated that an explanation has now been included and can be found on page 228 of the 2017 draft explanatory memorandum. That was the end of our debate in the Commission. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 15 March, to conclude the second reading and to hold a final vote. These decisions were consensual. I will also say that a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U77	Thank you. There don't seem to be any questions for the waitress. Would the representatives of the political groups like to speak? There are no requests to speak and no amendments have been tabled. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote of 389 and we will go to the preparation of the vote. Since the adoption of this draft decision requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu, please do a check-in! 73 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 28. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to increase the state guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank, submitted by the Government of the Republic, draft 389. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft of the Riigikogu's decision to increase the State guarantee granted to the Nordic Investment Bank has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U78	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft Law amending the Securities Market Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act 359 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Finance Committee to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U79	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate between the first and second reading of this draft law was held in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 7 March. The committee stated that no amendments had been received from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. In the meantime, the Commission sent letters to interested groups and organisations, such as Eesti Pank, the Estonian Banking Association, etc., but none of them sent us a reply. At the same time, it was stated that the Financial Supervision Authority had announced that it would stick to its positions. I mean, these are the positions he made before the first reading. A brief discussion followed. The Ministry of Finance introduced two amendments which are currently included in the draft law in the table. I'll take turns talking about them. The first proposal introduces an amendment to the proposal that the law covers another directive of the European Union, which I think was 1286/2014. The second amendment is such a disorderly one. There were 5 Commission members voting in favour of the first amendment, with 0 votes against and 2 abstentions. The second proposal was supported by consensus. After that, the views of the Financial Supervision Authority, to which it has remained faithful, were discussed again. Their proposal was to add the words 'or electronically' to § 503 (1) of the Financial Supervision Authority Act. I'll check the exact formulation right away. Yes, it sounds like: '... by written or electronic agreement. " This was followed by an explanation that, if it has already been announced that it can be published with written consent, it also contains an electronic form and we do not need to make such an addition, it is completely redundant. That's the end of it. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U80	Thanks for the waitress! Any questions? No, it's not. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Two amendments have been tabled. The first one was presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment was also tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and once again the commission considers that it must be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 359. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U81	We can go to the fifth item on the agenda, which is the second reading of draft bill 358 amending the Packaging Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Chair of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the Packaging Act and to what has happened between the first and second readings. The draft was announced by the Government of the Republic on 9 January 2017. The first reading took place here on 8 February, and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 22 February. No amendments have been tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. However, the Committee on the Environment itself made two amendments, both of which are of a linguistic nature and make the text more understandable. At its meeting on 7 March, the Commission decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 15 March, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to a third reading. Between the first and second readings, we received confirmation once again from the Estonian Merchants Association. They stated in their letter that they would support the draft law in the wording according to which plastic bags may be provided free of charge for initial packaging, in other cases not. The Commission was still discussing why the distinction has been made, i.e. exempt from accounting, those outlets where the trade area is less than 100 square metres. The Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants gave it a very specific and brief answer that the Ministry has submitted a draft to the Riigikogu, which takes into account the number of shops and other outlets based on Nielsen statistics. According to this, there are nearly 780 sales places in Estonia with an area of less than 100 square metres. They'll be released from accounting. The Ministry continues to believe that the Commission should support this idea, and the Commission did so in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U83	Thank you, waitress. You have questions too. Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Chairman of the Committee on the Environment! In the Commission, we had a very thorough and substantive debate. I'm gonna give you a chance to tell me what's gonna change from now on when this law comes into force. What is different for me when I go shopping as a buyer, and what is, let's say, a shopkeeper in a different way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U85	Thank you, very good question! The Committee on the Environment has contributed very much to this draft, not only in many sessions, but also in working hours. From the buyer's point of view, it changes that you will no longer be given free plastic bags at the store in the framework of any campaigns, or in the case of non-primary packaging. As an example, if you buy loose nuts, you will be able to get a plastic bag for free, otherwise the merchant will have to set a price for it. This price is not prescribed by law. We have chosen the most reasonable and liberal way possible to change consumer habits. We do not completely prohibit the use of thin or larger plastic bags, as some other European countries have done, for example, but we try to get people to think environmentally through their wallets. What will change for merchants? Those with more than 100 square metres of sales space must report through the packaging register how many plastic bags they have sold during the year. In the future, the Estonian state will have much better reporting and then we will also see whether the law made in this house has ultimately borne fruit or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U86	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U87	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, As you are talking about accurate calculations and reporting, there is certainly also an understanding of how much our consumers will have to pay for this in general a year. What is the gain of merchants from setting the price imposed by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U88	Thank you. Now that's a better question than the last one! That's the basic idea. Personally, I believe, and I think that all the members of the Committee on the Environment and the officials of the Ministry who have done this draft believe that nobody earns more because of this, but people will use fewer plastic bags. This means direct benefits to nature. On the other hand, it is good to see that we have contributed to environmental education with this bill, and I would even say that education is more important than the few cents that a merchant earns in some cases from transactions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U89	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also discuss banning plastic bags in the first place, using only paper bags?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U91	Thank you for your question. At first reading, we did indeed have this subject at stake. In France, for example, the use of thin plastic bags is literally banned. But it was decided that we are still trying to knock on the conscience and minds of the Estonian people, that we will not directly ban anything, but that we will give people the opportunity to choose whether to be environmentally friendly and save money or to be environmentally anti-environmental and to pay for it themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! The goal is to have 40 plastic bags per person per year in 2026, but the Traders' Association says we already have that level. Why, then, are we so eager to set it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U94	Thank you. If we look at the directive on the European Union, we cannot actually say that we have chosen the most radical path. As I pointed out in a number of previous replies, we really believe and contribute to the change of thinking and behaviour by the Estonian people themselves. The concrete answer to whether we are eager or not will actually be provided if, for at least one year, we have collected all these reporting data, all these figures, through the packaging register. The statistics we know now in Estonia are the result of several studies, and when the parties come together in the Committee on the Environment, it is always easy for everyone to say that the study ordered or carried out by someone else is not true. If, for example, we look at some study carried out elsewhere in Europe, there are completely different numbers. I think that we will get the right answer when, in the next calendar year, after the law has been implemented, we actually round up these figures. Then basically, we get an answer with the precision of the plastic bag.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U95	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U96	Good manager! Good waitress! I'm reading from your answer that the study referred to by the Traders' Association is some kind of bullshit investigation. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U97	No, it's not. I say again that it is always possible to discuss the various statistical indicators for a long time and it is difficult to see this truth as a 'court owl' there. Of course, each study has provided input and input to this draft. And it is clear that no matter what number is now, it is possible to improve the situation in terms of environment and environmental education at least for as long as the use of plastic bags per person in Estonia is zero. When we get to zero, it's really hard to keep going. Whether this number is 40 or 90 is, in principle, as long as use is not zero, it is still possible to improve the situation on the environmental side. I do believe that there is no reason to hide behind the statistics on this draft because, as I said, if we get specific figures with the precision of the plastic bag, we can also see which parties were ultimately right. But the differences in their figures are not so large that it could be said that this is not an important issue in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U98	Thanks to the waitress! No more questions for you. Do members of the Riigikogu wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. Then we will go to the examination of the amendments. Two amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment; the position of the commission is to take full account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 358. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U99	The sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code and the Aliens Act. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, to present a speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U100	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! The purpose of this bill is to bring Estonia's legal order into line with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence. In reality, the proposals contained in this draft are not only necessary for accession to the international treaty, but also, of course, necessary to prevent unlawful acts in our own judicial area, so that the people of Estonia have a safer life, that they have more freedom and that they know that they cannot be harmed. The Ministry's analysis has shown that our right is not yet fully in line with the provisions of the Convention and that it needs to be improved. However, some changes need to be made. First, harassment must be criminalised. This means seeking a repeated or consistent contact with another person, observing him or otherwise interfering in his or her private life against the will of another person, if its purpose or effect is to intimidate or humiliate another person or otherwise seriously disturb him or her. In reality, this has been dealt with; people have expressed their concern. At present, we have the concept of illegal surveillance in the Penal Code, but illegal surveillance is formulated in such a way that someone becomes involved in so-called detective work or intelligence aimed at pursuing a person. However, the purpose of an abductive pursuit is one: to use psychoterrorist. This may arise in the case of a broken family relationship, a close relationship where one party has become mentally unbalanced and lives out on another person, such as a former partner, making hundreds of phone calls, attacking the Internet, going to the door and terrorising, but it can also be expressed in other ways. For example, the paper recently mentioned how an entrepreneur who did not receive any permits simply started harassing officials of a public authority. It's already come up with some pretty ugly threats and psychoterror. The aim, of course, is not to punish itself, but primarily to ensure that the police have a tool in which they can call on the person to order and, in assessing the circumstances, to call on him to refrain from doing so. The next problem concerns the issue of forced marriage. If we can say that there is a gap in the Estonian legal order in a narrower sense, and in practice there is a problem to solve, then forced marriages and other such cases have not been clearly in Estonia's penal practice due to our cultural space, our customs space. It is well known, however, that in many countries of the world there is a unfortunate practice where one person's will is subjected to such a way that such marriage should actually be criminalised. It's defined as an unwilled marriage, an anti-personal marriage. We also see some European countries experiencing the problem of unwilled marriage due to the high proportion of people from other cultural areas in the population. In Britain, for example, a special agency has been set up, a special institution that deals with these problems. The third amendment stems from a disgusting practice such as female genital mutilation. Again, this has not been the case in Estonia. This practice clearly does not coincide with our understanding of personal freedom and fundamental human rights, but it is unfortunately common in many cultures in the world. Nearly one hundred million women are spoken of in the world who have experienced it. It is therefore appropriate to give a clear signal that, in our judicial area, such action is not to be tolerated in any way. On the contrary, in order to protect women's rights, it is not allowed to influence a woman to do so, much less someone else to perform such an operation. There is also a provision on the purchase of sexual services from victims of trafficking in human beings. In the current law, we have currently sanctioned the purchase of sexual services by a person under the age of 18 and now this provision must be supplemented by the purchase of sexual services by a victim of human trafficking. I would point out that this has nothing to do with criminalising prostitution as a phenomenon. The difficulty lies precisely in the fact that it is a victim of human trafficking and that a possible accused person who commits this act must be aware of it under reasonable circumstances. As with the purchase of sexual services from a person under the age of 18, the police and the prosecutor's office assess whether the accused person was aware in objective circumstances or whether he had to assume that the person was a minor, the person must also have at his disposal the information that the person is a victim of trafficking in human beings. There is another provision concerning the limitation periods provided for in the Convention. In the case of certain crimes, we propose that the limitation period be amended so that, if it is committed against a minor, it is possible to contact the police for a certain period of time after he or she has reached the age of full capacity. In the law currently in force, this principle already exists in the case of sexual offences. If, for example, such a crime is committed against a small child, the limitation period will not begin to apply since the child is still underage, but the limitation period will actually stop and start to run again after the person has reached the age of the adult. These formations that we add to this law should resolve this issue. These are the changes that are necessary to take an appropriate step to provide a clear legal assessment of what acts in Estonia are tolerant of our understanding, our values and what are not. The purpose of this law is one and clear: that there should be less violence in Estonia, no matter how exotic the source of this violence may be in view of the future, compared to our current practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U101	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U102	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are really no problems in our cultural space and it is clear that this law is starting to think about the future. The question here is: is the preventive law relating to the burka story we had in the Chamber of Riigikogu going to come before us soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U103	Thank you. We had a serious debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which was motivated by the draft law that your group initiated. At the time, I expressed the position of the Ministry that this issue of facial coatings, in particular from the point of view of guaranteeing personal freedoms, but also from the point of view of public security, should be resolved in a different way, not by giving a narrow catalogue of certain items. As I said, I hope to present some proposals to Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs over the next week, which we will then discuss in Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and make choices based on what we consider fit for purpose in pursuing this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U104	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U105	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! First of all, my recognition: all actions and actions aimed at preparing for ratification of the Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence are very good and necessary. But here's my question. Article 40 of that Convention provides that sexual harassment must also be prohibited and that criminal or other legal penalties must be imposed in this respect. In the current Estonian legal area, sexual harassment has been mentioned only in the Gender Equality Act and it is furnished very clearly only with harassment in the working environment, i.e. in subordinate or addictive relationships. This is not stated more broadly, nor is it foreseen in this draft. Why is that, and when will we do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U106	Thank you. Indeed, the Convention states that these issues must be resolved by the Member States, whether by criminal law or by other legal means. In reality, the universality of the Convention is, of course, high, so that all States which accede to the Convention can guarantee compliance with its requirements in their national legal order. However, as far as direct attacks against physical integrity are concerned, the Ministry's interpretation was that it is currently furnished by various criminal law norms. And as regards the fact that the Equal Treatment Act provides for one prohibition due to certain types of relations, the Ministry considered that there is no need for further regulation in our penal law in particular, in order for us to be able to adopt the Convention smoothly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U107	Liisa Oviir, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U108	I'm still asking for some clarification. This is the wording of this convention: verbal or physical conduct against a person who is considered unwelcome by sexual undertone, the object or effect of which is to violate the dignity of a person, in particular the creation of a frightening, hostile, deterrent, degrading or attacking atmosphere. I reviewed both the Penal Code and other acts and did not consider that any of the current rules would cover this issue. Then maybe you can tell me exactly where I can find this standard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U109	Thank you. I mean, if there are attacks against the physical integrity of a person, these attacks are, of course, covered by the Penal Code. Whether these attacks result from a desire to humiliate someone sexually or for any other purpose, they are defined in the Penal Code. The more detailed assessments on which our analysis was based, the Ministry will also give the good questioner. We certainly did not make these choices by looking so superficially at what you like and what you don't like. This selective application has not been envisaged in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U110	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U111	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. From the answers and from today's debate, I have understood that perhaps we are beginning to get this Convention to an end in our legislation. Perhaps we do not need to ratify it separately, all the provisions will be incorporated into the law. I understand the questioner's problem has been solved in our laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U112	Let's put it this way: in reality, this can be discussed for a long time. Yes, I am generally of the opinion that, in the 1990s, if accession to various international instruments was, in a sense, a matter for us in itself, it was like a signal that we wanted to be members of the international community, to be as integrated as possible into one of the values and norms created by the international community with international treaties, it does not mean that we should automatically transpose all international agreements which are good, but whose standards may already exist in the law of our country. Our attitude doesn't have to be that way. I think that with this agreement, the Estonian state will certainly express its attitude, its solidarity with those countries that have joined, and call on those countries that have not joined to do the same, to bring its provisions into the legal order of their country. Accession to this Convention in itself is also a selective, ideological step. I think that is justified, because, as I have pointed out on many occasions, violence against women in many societies, in many cultures is actually the norm. We certainly follow the concept of inalienable human rights, not because people are in one cultural space or another, but because they are basic human rights: the right to be the master of their own bodies, the right to be the master of their fundamental, most important choices. If these rights have been harassed or violated, we certainly cannot accept such violence, but, as a member of the international community, we want to contribute to its abolition. And one step is to accede to this Convention. This is a Council of Europe Convention, and I think that our accession to the legal order will in no way undermine or introduce any standards that might conflict with our current social attitude. I would stress that, apart from violence against women, this convention deals with domestic violence more widely and in many cases when we are talking, for example, about genital mutilation, distortion or unwelcome marriage, small children are also victims. It is not just a question of ugly acts committed against adults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U113	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U114	Good manager! Good minister! The state prosecutor's office says that they do not like taking all this, particularly female genital mutilation and changing, into the criminal catalogue. At the same time, it is stated in the explanatory memorandum that, in fact, these cases can now be searched in Estonian society with matchfire. But you've produced 30 pages of draft and explanatory notes here. What does this mean to address such an almost non-existent problem? Does this mean that there will be a lot more women coming here right now who will be harmed or damaged?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U115	I am saying that, according to our understanding of human rights, the popular perception of human rights in the world, this is a condemning practice. That's a fact. All countries, of course, cannot say in general that all countries, but my colleagues with whom I have spoken have clearly suggested that we address possible problems, regulating them before the problems actually arise in practice. If we have one little girl or ten little girls or an adult woman who we can say that they are not falling victim to this ugly crime in Estonia, then this step definitely deserves to be taken. We have a number of crimes in the Penal Code that may not materialise in a given year. Let's say the warship is abandoned by the captain of the ship or some other case where it's actually a threat prevention. The purpose of the Penal Code is not simply to write down or to pile up a pile of potatoes, to come up with arbitrary things that are punishable. The purpose of the Penal Code is the rightful conduct of people. In reality, it must be known that some acts are not accepted in this society, and if a person behaves in this way, they will be prevented. It is the first thing to prevent such acts, to prevent them, and if they do happen, to react. Thus, it also has important general preventive meanings. However, if we look at the countries around us, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, where these issues may not have arisen as many as we do, they too have found it necessary to take steps in this direction. We have the right to lay down our own rules in this country and they are based on the inalienable rights of people that no one has given, but on what every person has already been born.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U116	Peter Ernits, please, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U117	I will come back to the same question. If the state prosecutor's office says that female genital mutilation does not fit into our existing crime catalogue, I ask why you are still pressing it there. And are there any other abominations in the meaning of the Estonian cultural space that have spread to other cultures of the world and which could then be included in this catalogue? Do you have that list? Name those things again, no abominations!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U118	There is certainly a great deal of disgust in the world, and the whole purpose of penal law is to block these abominations, to ensure that these abominations are not committed to our fellow people, in the area of application of our penal code. If there are any disgusts in practice that are still to be discussed and not covered by the Penal Code, they must be discussed. We discussed here in Question Time whether the sexual acts committed against a minor are adequately covered by our legislation. After all, the issue is not that the criminal law is closed. What I want to say is that I believe that the Penal Code should strive for this is my ideological starting point, rather than my general understanding, so that people can understand what acts are allowed and what acts are not allowed. Figuratively speaking, there are perhaps reasons for our earlier very academic approach to penal law, in which some structures become very theoretical. Let's say that law enforcement lawyers can cover what kind of sanction is prescribed and what some act specifically contains, but as far as the understanding in society in general is concerned that it is the act and that such punishment is provided for, I would not be afraid of this sort of profitistry here. What we are talking about is an act, it is not an engineered act that exists in fiction. The victims of this act are of the order of 100 million women worldwide, as research shows. If we want to transpose this Convention, it is reasonable and appropriate to regulate this matter accordingly in practice, as the Convention requires of us. How does it differ from other physical integrity attacks, crimes that are also included in the Penal Code? The prosecutor's office indicated that they could be applied by interpretation. You see, there may be such a leader that the victim himself agrees with this act. The victim's consent may be, the victim himself says yes, he wants it. He is placed in such a context in his cultural environment; he is under such psychological pressure that his choice may not be decisive in qualifying this matter. It's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U119	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I would like to ask for a presentation by the committee of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaidi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, A meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs took place on 7 March. There was no such discussion on the catalogue of types of crime, there were only a few specific issues concerning harassment and state legal aid expenditure. Four decisions were taken on the draft: to put it on the agenda of the 15 March plenary session, to propose that the first reading be closed, to set the deadline for amendments to 29 March (all were consensual decisions) and to appoint Jaanus Karilaid as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U121	Thank you. There are no questions. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? Yes, it is. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Heljo Pikhof, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is most gratifying that issues relating to violence against women and domestic violence have come to the heart of public debate in recent weeks. Raising this painful problem at the level of the Head of State alone will strengthen all those who have been supporting victims for years and who have stood for less violence in our society. The Riigikogu has also awakened. Last year, the Riigikogu legalized the provision of various services to victims of violence, together with public funding, and approved the Lanzarote Convention. Today we are taking a strong step towards ratification of the Istanbul Convention and better protection of women if we bring Estonian law into line with the requirements of the Convention. Amendments to the Penal Code and the Aliens Act criminalise harassment of women, female genital mutilation and forced marriage. In addition, buying sex from a victim of human trafficking becomes a crime. But there is every reason to discuss further what still needs to be changed in our legislation, our attitude and our way of thinking. If someone is raging in a bar, cafeteria, bus station waiting room or public transport, they will be asked to leave or expelled, if necessary with the help of the police. Constant peacebreakers may not even be allowed in later. Perhaps if someone disturbs the peace of others, endangers their lives or health in a public place, customers are advised not to leave, but if the same is done for their family members, the victim will be offered the opportunity to go away, to go to shelter. The perpetrator has the right to return home in 48 hours, where he has the opportunity to finish what he started or to punish the family member for challenging the police. Why must the victim leave his home and seek refuge with his children, but can the beating continue to live there? Since witnessing violence is direct violence against children, how does fleeing from home affect children who are already shocked and traumatized? Instead, the police should have the right to send the perpetrator away from home, to prohibit him from coming back and to impose a restraining order for at least a few weeks. However, the victim must be guaranteed safety in his or her home, he or she must be reassured, heard and counseled, including psychologically, and he or she must be provided with legal assistance. There is also a need to deal with the perpetrator of violence. Safe should be home, not shelter. Such a system requires close cooperation between police and support service providers. The removal of the perpetrator from the victim and home and the longer term cooling period have been successfully implemented in Austria, Germany, Spain, the Czech Republic, Slovenia, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Latvia. Of course, the victim can also go to shelter if he is not convinced of his future security. In addition, in the near future, we must reach out to women who suffer from mental and mental violence as well as from professional help. In this way, Estonia could meet one of the requirements of the Istanbul Convention to protect all victims from any further acts of violence. Of course, combating violence against women plays a major role in providing more effective information, prevention and training so as to change the misguided mindset and attitude of many men. Regrettably, there are still many who consider violence against women to be a pseudo-problem. Doesn't the way outsiders talk about violence sometimes give the perpetrator a reason to justify his violent and controlling conduct? The causes of violence against women are often sought from childhood or accused of harsh parents or bad friends, thus trying to apologize to the brute. If a shoplifter gets caught, it is not claimed that the merchant is guilty because he put the goods in the available place, but in the case of violence, it is very easy to say that the woman was nagging, irising or yielding, in other words, provoking the violence of the relationship. That is probably why 42% of men think that women can prevent violence if they keep their mouths shut. Every six-seventh man finds that women themselves invite men to violence by provoking behaviour in order to gain the sympathy of others. Listen, doesn't everyone want close and warm relationships, support and understanding? Who, though, wants to experience humiliation, slander, threats, or defeat just to find compassion outside the home? The issue of violence against women is obviously irritating, as it is often attempted with sentence breaks 'Men are also victims. Why aren't they spoken of? '. Yeah, it happens. For example, of the more than 2,000 men interviewed in 2014, even six had experienced violence in a relationship. At the same time, 1 in 10 men admitted that they had been violent themselves. This survey dates from 2014; it is a survey of the attitudes and behaviour of Estonian men. These violent men have not come from Mars; they have grown in our society. You should not believe in myths that violent behavior comes from childhood experience, that alcohol is to blame, that men cannot control their anger, that a violent person lacks confidence or a sense of security. One reason certainly does not exist and should not be sought. Each case is in its own way, but violence against women in a relationship is a pattern of behavior that is used to control another person. We should agree on how to teach boys, young men, and men that violence is not compatible with masculinity. In society, the notion that violence against women and within the family is not justified in any way must take root. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U123	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 385. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 385 amendments, including 29 March at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U124	The seventh item is the first reading of the draft Act 384 on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask for a presentation by the author of the speech chair, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U125	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The idea of this bill is simple: there is no point in providing duplicate public services in the country, and if the public service is provided by the holder of a free office alongside a government agency, it is worth leaving the provision of this service to the holder of a free office. More specifically, it concerns access to the data and operational documents of the judicial registers and their obtaining of printouts. We are currently able to obtain printouts from the court register office, notary office or through the respective website. The proposal is that in the future they can be obtained from a notary office and through a website, and in the registry departments this activity could be terminated. Does it impair people's access to printouts? No, it does not impair the availability of print-out services, because there are 92 notaries in Estonia and they operate from morning to evening. In itself, these printouts have so far been needed in a total of a few thousand cases a year. When a person deals with a notary, it's really an electronic thing, a notary detects the identity of an entry electronically, and a person doesn't need a printout. However, a person may also want a printout if he becomes a house owner at a notary, for example, because this printout is beautiful, it is a paper with a seal, and people generally take it. In fact, there is no need to take this paper; it has more psychological meaning for people. True, sometimes it may be necessary, especially for entrepreneurs in international affairs. In international affairs, however, it is still necessary in most cases to prove this in the sense of 'apostille', and to do so, we need to go back to the notary. So this thing has such a practical purpose. What is important is that this law imposes an obligation on the Chamber of Notaries that one in Harjumaa, one in Tartu County, one in Pärnu County and one in Ida-Virumaa must have access to registration data without any money. In general, if I look at the registration data, the business records on the Internet, it's subject to a fee. I'll pay a transfer fee at the Internet Bank, and then I'll be able to access the data on a case-by-case basis. However, if people want to make more inquiries, it can be driven by journalistic interest, a journalist trying to derive some cross-linkage, for example, or some community representatives want to get to know the background in some cases, then now this possibility is guaranteed without a financial burden. In particular, in four points across Estonia, a person has the possibility to access the registers further by computer when he or she arrives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U126	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask for a presentation by the Commission of the Chair's member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Draft law 384 on amendments to the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 7 March. The bill was also presented by the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu in the Commission, but was also accompanied by Berit Loog, Adviser to the Office of Judicial Records of the Department of Justice Administration Policy, and Margit Veskimäe, Head of the same Service. The Minister has explained everything in principle and in detail, but I will repeat that, after this law enters into force, only notaries can consult the court records and file documents. As has already been mentioned here, there are many more of them across Estonia than there are offices in the registers: there are 92 notaries and they exist in all counties. As was said before, four notaries also have free access to the data; other services are, of course, for a small fee. A few questions were also put to the Commission. One question was that, if there are private data registers, would there be any information left to the data owner who had an interest in his or her identity in, for example, the matrimonial property register or the real estate register? In response, it was said that public computers at notary offices would leave a trail, indeed, with the precision of the notary office. The Minister noted that in those cases where we are talking about a paid service, if you go to a notary office or a registry department, which still offers this service, physically and are required to print out, there will be no trail, but the name of the notary or the registrar will remain. Berit Loog stated that in the case of a certified printout, the trail remains that a particular person has asked for a printout. It was also asked what the willingness of notaries to take full advantage of this service and whether this change would entail costs. The Minister's answer was that there is a complete willingness because the volume of work is not very high and the number of people who need this paper print is decreasing year after year. The rates have been discussed with the notaries. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session on 15 March and that the first reading be closed. The Commission also decided to propose a deadline of 29 March for amendments and to appoint me, Urve Tiidu, as rapporteur. All decisions were made unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-15_U128	Thanks to the waitress! No questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 384. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 384 amendments. a on March 29, 2004 at 4 p.m. Our trial today is over. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 3.10 p.m.
