ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 50 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Among the members of the government are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Toomas Tõniste, Minister of Finance. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U2	The first questioner is Eerik-Niles Kross, the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Eerik-Niles Kross!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U3	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! I was actually going to ask you for a position on the results of the analysis, which proves that broadcasts made on TV channel PBK for public money often convey Kremlin's points of view, not neutral information, but you said yesterday on Vikerradio that you were not familiar with this analysis. I have this analysis printed here, and I'll be happy to give it to you after the briefing. This is therefore the question for the time being. The foundations of Estonia's brave policy, which your government has approved, believe that there will be a sufficiently aggressive information war against Estonia through, among other things, Russian television channels. Do you in principle agree with the view that such aggressive informational activities against the interests of Estonia take place, inter alia, through Russian television channels?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. First of all, my pleasure was great when I saw you asking about the information war. You never know exactly what this is about. I thought you were asking how we are applying for non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council for the years 2020-2021. After all, we had a serious discussion on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs; you also gave me the task when I went to the European Union-Africa Summit. But now I understand what you're asking me about. I mean, are we at risk of an information war? Of course it is. There is no other way to think about it. The question is, on the one hand, where this threat comes from, which channels, and, on the other hand, how much information we ourselves can provide in Estonia about what is happening in our defence activities, security activities, internal security, social affairs, education. In my opinion, we must all, of course, both members of the Riigikogu and members of the government, be very active in sharing this information with the press when asked for it. The government regularly holds press conferences on Thursdays at 12 p.m., where the government announces its actions and decisions. It has to be said that government press conferences always have a lot of journalists from a number of publications. I also think it is important that we reach both language communities in Estonia. Everything must certainly be done to ensure that, for example, ETV+ goes forward in its development and Radio 4 has more listeners. This job is, I think, continuous.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U5	Eerik-Niles Kross, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U6	Thank you. As far as our cooperation on the Security Council is concerned, in Africa we are both probably better defending Estonia's interests, it turns out that way. But here's the question. On 9 May 2017, you said exactly this: 'In recent times, hostile propaganda and influence against democratic societies have become increasingly powerful and we see signs of this in many parts of the world. Unfortunately, this is also true in Estonia. ' After you have examined this analysis, is it possible to reach an agreement that PBK is also a problem? Or are you going to rule it out in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U7	Thank you. After all, the general principle is that if a member of the Riigikogu wishes to meet, a member of the government will meet him. Of course, it is possible to meet and discuss these issues with you, I hope, as effectively as we have had our earlier discussions, which have perhaps been too brief for some reason. But now I understand which way you're asking. You are talking about PBK and whether PBK should somehow reflect what is happening in Estonia. I think we should reflect. After all, PBK has been attending government press conferences, and in recent days, I have tried to study it somewhere since the early 2000s, perhaps since 2002, quite diligently. I admit he's been one of the busiest runners in the world, and he's been a part of the government. The question is, I don't think we should take anybody down here or not. The question is also, of course, what I have in my heart, as I said when I answered your first question, how, for example, we can increase the audience of ETV+. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't be satisfied with the 0.6% rating they have right now. I think that it is important that the ETV+ channel has more viewers in the future, but it is also important that we reach as many people as possible who live in Estonia through our communication. If PBK asks me for an interview, of course I'll give it. I think all Estonian politicians have done this, and I think it is right. On the other hand, I know that there are authorities in Estonia, such as the Rescue Board, who has seen there an opportunity to reach the people of Estonia who speak Russian and have made certain information notifications on the channel. I think that's right too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U8	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U9	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! It is still very different to go to a press conference and be a propaganda channel or a communication channel that sends official messages to the state. I, too, listened to yesterday's Prime Minister's class at Vikerraadio, where journalists allowed you to answer on quite a different subject rather than go into the'say' of the subject. I hope that you will be as specific as possible in front of Parliament here, in public, and will you say whether you are even aware that PBK is, in a sense, a hostile propaganda channel. Are you aware of this? If you are aware, do you approve that the official notification of the Estonian state will take place in a hostile propaganda channel against Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U10	Thank you. So, the Prime Minister's class at Rain Radio still matters, they're listening. Thank you for listening to this and for your feedback! I have to admit, I also listened to this show when you were there as Prime Minister. It's always been a very interesting show, I think. When I was driving around Estonia and I didn't have any meetings, I always listened with interest to your answers. True, I didn't always agree with you. Now, about what you said about the two hostesses who ran that prime minister's class on Rainbow Radio. You attacked them a little, they kind of didn't ask the right questions. I don't know about your time, but in my time, it's not like I have to tell the two showmasters that they have to ask these or other questions. They ask exactly the questions they want to ask, and I think they're speeding up the show. I'm sure I'll protect the national broadcasters from this attack. The next question was about PBK. I'm not a very big PBK viewer, point one. Point two, the experience I have had when giving interviews to them, is that I have never met an interviewer's hostility to the Estonian state or the ridicule of the Estonian state. I haven't really met that in the interviews that I've been interviewed. For example, I am coming from the final briefing of the Presidency for journalists right now. There was PBK over there. So what do we do now? Shall we close the doors and say that you will not be there knowing that this information will then be known only 0.6% of the Russian-speaking population, those who watch ETV+, and 5.5% (this is PBK rating) will not know this? In my opinion, a balanced transmission of information is important. But, as I said, I generally don't know how to evaluate this program and the TV channel, because I'm not a viewer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U12	The next question is asked by Artur Talvik, and the question is addressed to Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U13	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! It's Christmas time. Traditionally, the Christmas table in Estonia is usually covered by pork roast. This year, it seems that this pork roast is particularly greasy, as the pig farmers receiving the breeding aid are worth as much as EUR 200 and more per sow, the difference with the cattle farmers being multiple. In society, however, there is a very clear suspicion that the people who are close to you, who are involved with pig farmers, have influenced this decision to pay so much support and have taken advantage of internal information. Tell me, please, is it or is it not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U14	Thank you, dear Arthur Talvik. I completely agree that the traditional Christmas dish of Estonians is pork roast. I hope it stays that way. I believe that it is also important for very many people in Estonia that the pork roast they eat in the family circle during Christmas is made of pigs grown in Estonia. This has not always been the case this year, and this has not always been the case, because Estonia's capacity for self-supply has remained below the demand of Estonian people for consumption. I have to admit that over the last two weeks, I have become much more aware of the problems in the pig sector than before. I believe that in the Riigikogu, too, many people have brought themselves up to date on this issue, and that is only good because the sector still has problems. The agricultural sector is still in a difficult situation because there are sanctions against Russia, nor has the African swine plague disappeared from Estonia. This is why last year the agricultural subsidies came to the table at the coalition talks. Did we invent something that isn't anywhere else in Europe? No! You were already in the Riigikogu when, during the previous government, all the farmers' representative organisations came to the Riigikogu to complain about their concerns. Unfortunately, the previous government didn't listen. What was the source of this concern? Not that Estonian farmers would not have done well and would not have tried to fight nature with their vigor. This was due to the fact that in the rest of the European Union Member States the national contributions paid from their own budgets were considerably higher than in Estonia. There were almost no grants in Estonia. Now for that breeding aid. I've been trying to figure out where it came from. I am reading an interview published on May 29, 2015 in Maavaleht. The then Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, today's chancellor, said such a thing there that, yes, we are down even from the southern neighbour of Latvia. He said that the Latvian state paid 360 euros per person per year, and stated that the rate of breeding aid in Latvia was much higher than in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U15	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U16	Thank you! Good minister! I have had the honour of dealing with pigs and also with political hogs since the very beginning of my entry into the Riigikogu. I have a suspicion that you lied when you sent the Forum when you said that the agricultural organisations demanded this kind of breeding aid. The agricultural organisations had three points: one was talking about top-up, with a very precise number, and the other was talking about crisis aid, with a very precise number, but the breeding aid was open. This raises the suspicion that this very large amount of breeding aid has come about precisely because you have a very close relationship with pig farming.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U17	You know, my relationship with pig breeding is much more modest than your relationship with livestock farming, for example. You have also had the opportunity to be at the table for coalition negotiations. It is true that the Free Party did not stay there long in previous negotiations, but you were at the table, and you can certainly still be there in the future. Now I'm just going to admonish you because you're trying to incriminate me of a certain approach. I don't know what your father-in-law or your mother-in-law is up to, but you are a volunteer marine rescuer and you shouldn't be involved in the debate on the chapter on internal security. You have animals, so you should not participate in the debate on the rural chapter. Your daughter, as I read today, wishes to go to space. Space is part of the economic chapter, so don't take part in the discussion of the economic chapter as party chairman. Your wife is a doctor, so medicine and social issues are excluded. You've been to the theater school and you're a well-known filmmaker, culture out! In fact, coalition negotiations do not go into such details. This support has been developed on the basis of common rules for all farms. I have not stood for one company to receive more support than the other. In that respect, I've been telling the whole truth. About that letter, you said you had doubts that it would not be found online. When the first hesitation came into question, I Googled and found this letter. Indeed, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation have sent these proposals to the Government Coalition. Since we came from the phase where the farmers were in front of Toompea and were very dissatisfied with how their sector was allowed to fade, I think it was a completely consensual decision that Estonian agriculture should be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U18	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Neither you, Prime Minister, nor the Minister for Rural Affairs who appeared before us the day before us, have been able to refute one beautifully colored time series that appeared in the newspaper Postimees. It says that at the coalition talks, it was decided to allocate EUR 2 million for pigs on 14 November 2016. Two days later, the Baekon of Linnamäe took a step towards becoming a member of the Breeding Association of Estonian Breeds. How do you reject the fact that there was no provision of information, that there was no conflict of interest, that there was no connection? Why didn't they do it before, made themselves "supportable" before? Why is this time series exactly as it is presented?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U20	Thank you for your question. I heard you asked the Minister for Rural Affairs the same thing on Monday. I was under the impression that you haven't studied these news since recently. Teet Soorm, my partner, is not a member of the City Hill bacon. His father is active in the agricultural business. For the time series, which I read about Postimees, there was an immediate explanation that this farm was purchased from Atria, a Finnish producer. As I understand and have read from public sources, Atria and another Finnish company have registered pigs in the Finnish performance control register. When Estonians became owners, they started working to get these animals to come to the Estonian performance control register, whose name, if my old memory does not deceive me, is Possu. It doesn't go overnight. The owners of the farm have explained how they took action and how they got to it. It is also clear that every year the deadline has been 1 December. It was not a novelty that we would have changed or agreed upon in the coalition talks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U22	Next, Arno Bridge will ask the Finance Minister, Toomas Tõnis. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U23	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. This problem has been discussed for a long time already during the previous government, and it has now been continued, so that there is not enough funding for veterinary training and it would be necessary to find an additional half a million euros so that our veterinarians can be taught at international level. This was also stated by the rector of the University of Life Sciences, who went to our committee to address this issue. On Monday, the Minister of Education and Science stated that he did not object to this issue being resolved in this way, but the only one who opposed it was the Ministry of Finance. Now I'm asking you, what about these silo towers when one speaks the same way and the other one speaks the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U24	Thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U25	Do these silo towers still exist, or can't you talk to each other about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Arno! In short, I can say that education will receive EUR 77.5 million in next year's budget, which is 13%. I am glad that we do not forget the teachers, but invest in them. They will receive an additional EUR 36 million to raise their average wage to EUR 1380. Higher education institutions also receive additional funding for operating costs, an amount of 159 million. Coming back to the question, as you mentioned once, this is more about the Ministry of Education and Research, but the questioner will not be put to his mouth. If we were always going to give the sums that we're being asked for, we wouldn't get far. But the message is that all universities set priorities and allocate money on the basis of them. I have heard that the parties have met and are trying to find solutions to this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! Continuing on this subject: in the past, it was the impression that the Minister of Finance was still the person who did not give the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Rural Affairs the opportunity to agree on how to finance veterinary training in terms of sustainability and maintaining its international competence and level. Can you tell me who this thing is really behind? If the representatives of the three ministries sit at the table but cannot agree on how to finance such important, and precisely, training to increase the potential of agriculture, what is the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U29	Thank you. We heard here earlier that it was Christmas time and that there were elves going around. They're also going to the Treasury Department, but I checked this morning, they hadn't brought any money into our stockings. Now there's little hope that when Santa comes, maybe he'll surprise us positively. We have foreseen an additional EUR 77.5 million in the budget of the Ministry of Education. As I said before, the frames have been set and priorities set. If there is a priority, a solution will be found, and that money will also be found.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U30	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U31	The next questioner is Urmas Kruuse, responding to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson. Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honorable Minister! Listening to your answers gives you the impression that you are not really aware of the anti-corruption law. Paragraph 11 (1) of that provision clearly states that if a decision or act is taken against the authority itself or a person associated with it, it is objectionable. I am amazed at one thing in particular when you say it. You have not admitted to the public that what has happened in relation to these decisions would, in your opinion, be at least an ethical conflict, not to mention the notion that decision-making must be fair and transparent and also seem fair and transparent. How do you comment on this in the context of the Anti-Corruption Act?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U33	Thank you, dear Urmas Kruuse. The people of your party have also participated in coalition negotiations. I understand that the issue now is that today's government found funds in the state budget to increase transitional support and support breeding that the previous government did not do. I have had talks and asked what was wrong with the previous government, that agriculture was not supported in a crisis situation. It has been said that both the Social Democrats and the IRL wanted to support Estonian farmers already in 2015, but the Reform Party was opposed, he said that they would not find any money for this, that the support of the European Union was and that they would not put more national support. With this, we stood out very badly in the region, because all the rest of the region's countries supported their farmers. Then the IRL and the Social Democrats said that in this case they would have no rural caring people who would accept the position of Minister of Rural Affairs, and the Reform Party said that they would find a person who could be the Minister of Rural Affairs without being deeply hurt by the fact that the sector would be allowed to fade. You were the person. How could you be a minister for two years, see what happens in the sector, and not be able to stand up for subsidies coming from the budget as a member of the Prime Minister's Party? I think this is about you and your party. I participated in coalition negotiations, where no decisions were made in favour of one company, but what had not been done by the previous government was put on the table. These are burning problems. We can start with rural issues, we can talk about tax policy, that people whose incomes were low were taxed too high, we can talk about how they could operate in Estonia without paying taxes. We discussed a variety of issues, but you should be ashamed of the rural issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U34	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, don't give me that epistle about the Reform Party. But you didn't answer the question at all. How did you allow such a conflict of interest to arise against yourself? Why was the support you decided to pay on 14 November selective? How was it possible that a related, intimate, property-related farm through your father became one of those who received support because of selective and very quick decisions? He wasn't fit for it before.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U36	Thank you. The government supports a number of rural areas that were not previously supported. Yeah, pig breeding is one of them. In addition, we support all Estonian rural economic operators with transitional support, which is paid this year at a maximum amount of 19.9 million, and next year at 18.4 million, also at a maximum amount. We didn't get any more detailed than that in the coalition negotiations. If you want to know if I knew a year ago how breeding premiums were distributed, I'll say I didn't. It's true, I've gotten myself up to speed on this to figure out what they're trying to build right now. Now for the conflict of interest. At first, it was argued that, like the Peekon of Linnamäe, which was bought by the owners of Estonia from Atria and whose minority stake is held by the father of my partner, there would have been some disproportionate support. No, it's not! The owners have explained how the process was carried out to get animals from the Finnish performance control register to the Estonian performance control register. Journalists have called several pig farmers and asked if any steps can be taken in two days. They have received a clear answer that, no, in this sector, things do not work out the way that there was a political discussion on Saturday and that on Monday the farm has already reached the point where it had reached, because things are happening more slowly in this sector. But I think it is important that the coalition negotiations were about the area, the rural area, not about one or another company in detail. I'm sure they didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U37	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister, I understand your incompetence in rural matters. But today's government has not laid its hand on more than EUR 460000 out of all 30 million crisis aid, and this 460000 was given directly and again to pig farmers. Not to mention that the so-called performance testing can really only be carried out through breeding and the breeding cooperative is run by a middle party, but you claim that there is no connection. You're trying to make the public think they didn't do anything like this. The farmers who sent the letter also made it very clear that there was cattle breeding and breeding. Today's government has given zero euros to bovine breeding. Zero! In South Estonia, the legend 'Estonia's first pig farmer is Kadri Simson'. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U39	Thank you for your question. I don't mind if the humorists say that I'm the spokesperson for pig farming in the government. All this bad reflection must also be of use. I think people have realized that this government has a much better view of rural life than the previous one. Now the question is whether this support is needed. Yes, it is. This has been confirmed by the sector; this has been confirmed freshly by these attacks, such as the Chamber of Agriculture. Speaking of the fact that you did something, too, when you were Minister for Rural Affairs, I remember the time when Estonia was hit by a swine plague and many farms were closed, but there were also a lot of clean farms that could no longer trade their pork, because with the third zone they were actually placed under the so-called church oath. Then you proposed a solution. Was it called canned aid? Only two companies replied. At present, all farms operating in this sector and meeting the requirements receive equal support, and you only supported Atria and HKScan.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U40	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U41	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You'll have mud spray from the activities of the other members of the Central Party. The previous question was also in that direction. But you are not only the chairman of the Centre Party, but also the chairman of the Tallinn Council or something like that. My question concerns this infamous audit of the Tondiraba fitness centre and its concealment over a long period of time. I would like to point out that this was also a pre-election period, and Jelena Glebova, the manager of the same sports centre, was nominated for the Central Party list, including the related assistant mayor Mikhail Kõlvart. Would you give your assessment of the unsubstantiated concealment of the audit that was completed, as the city of Tallinn did before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U43	Thank you, good questioner! You'll see better what's on my coat and what's not. If you referred to the questions previously asked in Question Time and to the answers given by Kadri Samson, I can say, being aware of this and having questioned a great many parties, that I agree with what Kadri Samson said in any case. I may agree most with this (as strange as it may be that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure said this): Estonia's rural and agriculture needed to be given additional moves. Your question was about the centre of Tondiraba and whether it relates to suspicious transactions or corruption. For the sake of less corruption in Estonia, I think we are both standing firm. You specifically asked about a branch of a municipality office. This assessment must be made, point one, in particular Tallinn City Government, and, point two, internal control initiated by the city government and certainly the audit committee of the city council and city council. These are the authorities that have to assess the audits carried out in local governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U44	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I am not asking about the specific aspects of this audit, many of which have been discussed, I am asking about the fact that in the pre-election period, the Tallinn City Government concealed this audit, with no justification. The members of your party, to whom this audit inevitably gave a bad light, including Glebova and including Kõlvart, were candidates for local elections. Their constituents did not know that this had happened, nor did the members of the previous city council know this. It's a very alarming signal. Did you decide, on this point, that Mikhail Kõlvart would not continue as an assistant mayor, but would receive the office of chairman of the Tallinn Council as a great compensation and a briefcase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U46	In answering your question directly, I say that this was certainly not the consideration. If there was any consideration, it was the result of the election, it was 25,000 votes from the area of Lasnamäe. We don't choose the chairman of the city council, we choose the chairman of the city council. We really did make this proposal, and the city council majority supported it. If you ask me what was the consideration, that was the consideration. Coming to the introduction to your question, after all, the question was not really a question, so I think that any openness is important and important. Whether it is Tallinn or any Estonian municipality or state institution, openness is important and important in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U47	Honourable Riigikogu, you are, of course, free to ask what you want, but let me remind you, however, that we have Question Time for the Government of the Republic. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! When we looked at the period before, during and after the election of the Tallinn Council, we noticed a very clear pattern of force: the Prime Minister put together coalitions, carried out coalition negotiations and even put ministers in place in Tallinn City Government. Today, the honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia is trying to make it clear to this hall that he has no contact with Tallinn City Government. From here on, you can ask: do you really not feel embarrassed about the possible cases and corruption mentioned in this House?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U49	Thank you. I will return to you what I said to Mr Herkel. In the fight against corruption, I'm sure you and I are done with the front line. It is important to ensure that there is as little corruption as possible in the public sector, as well as in the private sector. The ideal is if it doesn't exist at all. This, in my opinion, is not a matter of any kind that separates us. On the contrary, we have a very similar position. I will support it in any case, with all my heart. You referred to the pre- and post-election period. I also carry out the duties of the chairman of the party. Of course, as the chairman of the party, I support the well-being of my party across Estonia, in the municipalities and cities, including Tallinn. I didn't run for office myself, and I think the principle or the unwritten rule that the Prime Minister doesn't stand for local elections is the right one. What happened after the election? We were judged by the highest authority, the electorate. You always want to bring the subject of Tallinn into question. To be honest, I sense that I am even a little embarrassed in front of the Riigikogu, because this is not the City Council of Tallinn, but if you ask me about this, I have an obligation to answer. Indeed, a very large mandate was given to the Centre Party in Tallinn, 40 out of 79 places, and I am grateful for that. Of course, the party is analyzing who the deputy mayor is and who is in charge of the district manager. The mayor's candidate was out of our league. I recommend that every party deals with the staff issues of its own party. But what made the choice was still a program and an idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U50	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U51	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U52	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! In the first half of September, the European Commission proposed to Member States that, in 2018 and 2019, 50,000 migrants could be accepted voluntarily by Member States and directly from North Africa, so that no one would have to risk their lives, thus opening up a legal way of migration. Sweden and some other countries first adopted this proposal. Last Thursday, 14 December, there was a meeting of the Government of the Republic, where the government agreed to take 80 persons to Estonia within two years of the same programme, although we have no obligation to do so, it is a completely voluntary act. Please explain here in greater detail why we voluntarily accept 80 people, although it would be far more cost-effective to provide assistance for people in crisis zones and refugee camps.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U53	Thank you for this serious question. I start with you talking about financial assistance at the end of your question, you were talking about the external dimension of migration and solidarity in the external dimension. In this sense, it is right that your question is right that there is no question in the external aspect of the migration dimension and in finding solidarity there, all 28 Member States say that, yes, there is more need to contribute to the external borders, to the agreement with third countries, to bilateral agreements between countries, to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey and to the African Trust Fund. At the beginning of July, it was evident that countries were not contributing enough to the African Trust Fund. The Estonian Presidency took a very strong political lead here. Our Minister for the Interior, I and the wider administration, we asked all European Member States to contribute more to this, so that we could get more support for the African Fund. They were hoping to get 110 million, got 150 million. That's a good step. But there is still an internal dimension and a dimension of the internal dimension of migration, where solidarity is also important. I believe that our debate will proceed immediately with your next question. But if you ask more broadly why one, another or third Member States contribute to the internal dimension of migration in terms of their solidarity and at the expense of their solidarity, this has been one of the fundamentals of building the European Union: there has been solidarity on such complex issues, but also on positive issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U54	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U55	Thank you. Of course, admirable is your round talk, and especially the fact that you spent two minutes on it. You should have answered the direct question of why we have to accept 80 people within two years, if we have no obligation to do so, and if there are countries in the European Union that say that they are willing to contribute to solving the problem on the ground, but they are not willing to hide their heads in the sand and deal with things that do not solve the problem. Our actions do not solve any problems because there are nearly 70 million refugees in the world. Such action will not solve any problems. The question is how can we spend money as effectively as possible? If you do not want to answer that, well, answer this question: is it because the German Chancellor Angela Merkel said last week that he did not accept selective solidarity? Is it how to say, kissing or fawning to be solidarity in any case, and at the same time we are looking at Poland and Hungary, for example, who are sending this plan for a long time? What is your attitude on this issue? How do we feel about Poland and Hungary, which do not agree with us on this issue of solidarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U56	Thank you. I'm going to go straight to the idea that I'm about to violate it, that it's not nice for members of the government to tell their superiors whether it's appropriate or not. I am telling you, Mr Madison, that I do not believe that it is absolutely right or fair to label one or the other or the third Head of State on his political path in this way. I think it is much better to build bridges and find allies in politics, including foreign policy and European Union politics. I've read your Facebook comments about a head of state. They've always been negative and derogatory. Is Poland an important partner of Estonia in the European Union? Yes, it is, as is Hungary, but so is Germany. So I think, or at least my recommendation, is a honourable member of the Riigikogu, so you might want to think a little bit before you use such sentences. I answered your first question. You said that I did not respond to what is the reason why Estonia is proposing, of course, through the Riigikogu and the European Union Affairs Committee, that in 2018 we should receive 40 people and also 40 in 2019. This is because of solidarity, as I have told you. There is only one reason, and that is solidarity. Next, when we are talking about this adoption, I would like to remind you that, on the basis of the joint statement of the European Union and Turkey adopted on 18 March 2016, Member States have until 9 January 2018 to comply with the resettlement plan. Estonia then undertook to resettle 160 people, about 10 of whom we have displaced, which is 6%. In addition, on 20 July 2015, the Council of the European Union decided on the basis of which we promised to resettle 20 people. So we've resettled 30 people, but we've committed to resettled 160.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U57	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U58	Thank you. Yeah, you must have devoted a lot of your speech to that one word, it was "pussy." I'm sorry, that's how government steps are defined. We cannot talk about any kind of solidarity or problem-solving until Europe's borders leak like a sieve. Our money, which we are giving to Frontex and EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia, is simply being wasted because both the military mission and the border guard are simply operating as human smugglers' logs, bringing dozens and hundreds of thousands of people across the Mediterranean. Moreover, the agreement you referred to will immediately end and we will have no obligation. Do you really find that this kind of false solidarity, the consequence of the liquidation...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U59	That was a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U60	...not dealing with the causes is appropriate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U61	One minute should be done. I ask the Prime Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U62	Thank you. No, I don't think some kind of false solidarity is fair. And I'm not talking about fake solidarity at all. If I may, I will finish the answer to the previous question. We've received 30 people. The government really proposed to the Riigikogu that we relocate 40 people from Turkey in 2018 and 40 people in 2019. As I know, the Riigikogu will discuss this in the European Union Affairs Committee next year. Even if we fulfil this promise 100%, it means that by the end of October 2019 we have relocated 110 people. The initial agreement was actually 160 people, so it's 70 less people, point one. Point two, if you have data on what you have just mentioned on your question, that Frontex and Sophia are doing, I do not know, working with smugglers and this contribution or support is going to the wrong place, this information must be made public, they must be handed over to the investigative bodies, not to throw words. I know that migratory pressures, the migration crisis and migration flows in the Mediterranean have decreased. It's severely reduced, point one. Point two, we cannot talk about solidarity in just one key, which is solidarity in the external dimension, we must also talk about solidarity in the second key, which is solidarity in the internal dimension. We need to work together in both directions. It is not a question of what one, another or third country thinks. The question is how 28 countries go forward together. If each country puts down such red lines and says that we are not doing this or that, then at some point this European Union will no longer make sense. I think finding a joint part is that value. Estonia has made a concrete proposal on this very migration issue. Our proposal today, while we are still holding the Presidency, is that refugees can only be accepted if the host country agrees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U63	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U64	The next question is the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõnis. Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Finance! You are probably surprised why I ask you about the funding of health care, why I do not ask the Minister for Industry. But there are two reasons. The first is that you are responsible for the health of public finances as a whole, and, on the other hand, you are a member of the Board of Health Insurance for your position. As we know, our health care has been in a deep crisis for years, which is reflected in the 34 million minus of the budget, and unfortunately it is a growing rather than declining trend, which is also due to our demographic situation. Here comes my very specific question to you. You, as Minister of Finance, should certainly be concerned about the fact that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund is far below. Do you have a strategic long-term vision or an understanding of how to finance health care, and what changes should be made so that we can say that the health financing crisis will not lead to a crisis in our public budget and finances?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U66	Thank you, good manager. Good Monika! Health is certainly one of the priorities of this coalition. Healthcare will receive over €300 million in additional funding over the next five years to improve access to healthcare, of which €34 million will be allocated in 2018. The additional funds will provide an opportunity to reduce treatment queues and improve access to healthcare, continuity and quality of care by broadening the income base of the Health Insurance Fund. This will certainly significantly alleviate the long-suffering underfunding problem of the health care system. The Health Insurance Fund has a budget of almost €1.2 billion in 2018. It is growing by nearly EUR 170 million, 81 million of which is the result of an increase in social tax income from health insurance, and EUR 91.3 million comes for non-working pensioners, with additional liabilities for the sickness fund of EUR 54.6 million. These additional obligations are emergency care and dental care. The amount of ambulance services is approximately 37 million and the amount of dental care services is 12 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U67	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U68	Thank you. Good minister! There were two places I wanted to argue with you. 300 million extra money is not really extra money, but we are simply taking money from other lines and transferring it to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The additional money will be 34 million next year, certainly not 100 million. Maybe it's such a little PR trick that we're bringing in a lot of money. On the other hand, what we do to raise this money is obviously filling holes, or patching these deep holes. My question was that this is not a strategic approach that would help to emerge from the crisis. But my question concerns the use of the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund to meet the state budget's so-called current expenditure and liabilities, referred to by the Chancellor of Justice and, in fact, the National Audit Office. As Minister of Finance, do you consider it reasonable and justified that we violate the law and do what we really should not do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U69	Thank you for your question. We are not breaking the law, the Ministry of Finance is acting in accordance with the law, and the budget law is superior to us. The real problem today is that the Law on Health Insurance and Unemployment Insurance should be amended, which is what the Ministry of Finance has proposed. In any case, I think it is reasonable that the Ministry of Finance also pays interest for this money, especially in the current situation of negative interest, where the Health Insurance Fund earns because it keeps money in a group account of the Ministry of Finance. So there is nothing exceptional about this, since 2011, these things have been going on like this. I would correct the little criticism that sounded at the beginning of the second question. I stressed that we have foreseen more than EUR 300 million to improve access to healthcare, of which 34 million will be allocated in 2018. I said that the extra money allocated to the sickness fund is EUR 34 million, which can alleviate the situation in areas where money is missing, either by raising the nurse's salary or by doing something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U70	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! The question of a good colleague probably referred to the fact that you are dealing with an illusory subject and showing that there is money, although there is not. But people have practical problems. As a member of the Health Insurance Board, do you know that people didn't get their digital prescription medications this weekend? People were advised to visit a family doctor on Saturday. As a member of the Health Insurance Board, what do you say to those people who were left without prescription? What was the reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U72	Thank you. As Minister of Finance, I do not participate in the work of the Health Insurance Fund on a daily basis, for which the board of directors of the Health Insurance Fund is responsible. What would I tell people? I'd say I'm sorry this happened. If they have concerns and suggestions, they could write to the board of the Health Insurance Fund and inform the relevant authorities. We just have to take this into account, we want it or we don't want it to happen sometimes, just like we're looking forward to.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U73	Honourable Riigikogu, I will stop dealing with this issue. This was the last Question Time of this year. We thank the Government of the Republic for answering questions and thank the viewers for watching the Question Time! Happy Christmas to everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U74	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U75	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the Riigikogu to the proceedings of the Riigikogu the "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund and the appointment of a new member" draft decision. It will be initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The situation is that two members of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund are appointed by the Riigikogu, as provided for by law. It has always been good practice that one of them is part of a coalition group and the other is a representative of some opposition party. We have had two representatives of the opposition in this fund over the year. So we propose to recall Aivar Sõerd, a member of the Supervisory Board of the Guarantee Fund, and to appoint Dmitri Dmitriev as a member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U76	There's no more calls. I've adopted a bill. If it complies with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will take it into procedure. Incoming check, please! There's 87 of us here right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U77	Let's go to today's agenda. First of all, the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is the third reading. I'm opening negotiations. Erki Savisaar on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Let me briefly remind you what our objectives are for the amendment of the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act. The first objective is to make it more difficult for minors to access alcohol. Therefore, the possibility of a control transaction has been included in the draft law. The reason we're doing this is very simple. A study by the Institute for Health Development showed that 18% of young minors in grade 9 and 43% of young people in grade 11 have alcohol available at the store. These percentages speak for themselves and show that young people still have easy access to alcohol. In order to affect a wider range of people, it is necessary to place alcohol in future shops separately from other goods and in such a way that the consumer is not necessarily exposed to it when shopping. In order to achieve this situation, traders will be given a period of one and a half years, to be achieved by July 2019. We had long and heated negotiations on this subject, which I have talked about before on this platform. In fact, small village shops often find it impossible to sell alcohol under such conditions. In order to keep the land shops and thus the countryside, derogations were granted to those shops where these obstacles are insurmountable. We have come up with specific scenarios that small shops may continue to use when selling alcohol, such as the sale of alcohol behind the counter. This way of placement prevents the buyer from simply raising the bottles to the basket and therefore making emotional purchases. We also found that in small country shops wall-side refrigerators may remain for alcohol, with a slight change so that neutral opaque doors could be used instead of transparent doors, and these cabinets should not be combined with alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks. Nor will the law limit the activities of small shops where it is not possible to hide alcohol placed on euro-area vessels. Otherwise, the closing of shops within the working day should be considered in order to bring the goods to the sales hall during the day. These are concrete examples of what possibilities, both individually and as a set, can reasonably be used in small shops. Third but not least, we have introduced restrictions on alcohol advertising. This may sound idealistic, but the health and future of our young people depend on it. I dare say that because it has been proven that alcohol advertising increases consumption throughout life. Therefore, only product-oriented and neutral information may be provided in future alcohol advertising. The start of the alcohol advertising on TV and radio is also pushed from 9 to 10 o'clock so that the younger ones of the family are not necessarily exposed to it. Advertising restrictions will take effect from July next year. Now the big question is, why are we doing all this? Alcohol policy has long been a source of much debate in society, and often a misunderstanding as to why the state is taking such strong steps in taxation, price policy, regulation of access to alcohol, as well as regulation of advertising. The answer is statistics. In Estonia, 8.3 litres of pure alcohol per capita in 2016, and for every adult person, 15 years and older, 9.9 litres of iodine. If we continue with the statistics, it can be said that during 2016, drinking driving was fixed at 5,875 times and 8663 people were approached by a specialised doctor and a general practitioner due to diseases caused by excessive alcohol consumption. It is estimated that alcohol causes, directly or indirectly, more than a thousand deaths a year. For example, the total number of deaths in Estonia in 2016, which was 15300, indicates that at least 6% of all deaths are caused by alcohol. It's definitely not a small number. Studies carried out by the Estonian Institute of Economics last year show that three quarters of the Estonian population find that their compatriots drink too much, and 85% is in favour of alcohol policy with restrictions. If the question of why there is a need to tighten up alcohol policy should now have been answered, then the idea of using tax measures and behavioural measures together, but not choosing one or two specific goals and putting your cards on it, will remain in the air. Current practice in the world has shown that it is the combination of many restrictions that will ultimately lead to better results and reduce alcohol consumption and the accidents caused by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U79	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the Toomas Kivimägi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U80	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The more restrictions, the less freedom. It seems to me that today's government coalition does not trust people or entrepreneurs, but wants to decide everything on its own, to order and prohibit and regulate. This draft is one such example. My previous speaker, my good colleague Erki, introduced a new and peculiar term, 'neutral opaque doors'. It's a fancy and exciting wording. What does that mean? I think the philologists would have a piece of work on that term. It shows the degree of detail that one law wants to go to. At the same time, I remember one of Toomas Tamsar's writings before the Riigikogu elections, which was entitled 'Teeme halved'. The point of his writing was that we could pass half the laws that we've done before. No member of the Riigikogu dared to go along with this idea because there was fear that you would be expected to do half the work. But the point of this article was, in fact, that there could be less regulation. The purpose of today's draft is the opposite of that. Secondly, I am disturbed by the blind belief in this draft that if we put alcohol behind the wall, the problem has been solved, despite the fact that there is no research or impact analysis of how much alcohol consumption would be reduced as a result of this measure. Yes, as a result of the good work done by the Committee on Economic Affairs, this provision has received somewhat less restrictive wording and, by that, is less costly for businesses, but hiding alcohol behind the wall than it is left behind. I have a question here, or rather a fear that what's next. Candy and cookies behind the wall? Overeating candy and cookies is clearly an important problem for children's health. What is the emotional and psychological impact on a child who walks around the store and watches candy shelves? It's really hard for Mom and Dad to say no to a kid if it wants that candy. I don't want this kind of society, but I'm afraid we're moving towards it. Against this background, it is quite good to remember our northern neighbours. Yesterday, the Finnish Parliament adopted a decision on the basis of which to return to both grocery shops and to pay attention! For petrol stations, beer and cider of an alcohol content not exceeding 5,5%. It would be quite interesting to know why the Finns made such a decision, because it is quite the opposite of the original idea of the drafters. I think it would be worth asking the Finns before rushing to apply all kinds of restrictions. What else is bothering about this bill? I mentioned that there has indeed been some kind of relief in relation to the display of alcohol in shops, which makes perfect sense, but I must say that the wording has become more confusing. The concept of 'visible', which was initially in the draft, is self-evident, was, of course, an excessive requirement for economic operators, but what is'showingly visible'? I repeat myself: I think there are 101 opinions on this in this Chamber. Or what is reasonably feasible or what is not reasonably feasible? I think it is very bad legislation and legal practice to write such vague terms and terms into the law. Once again: I am not opposed to this relaxation and I think it makes sense, but this wording is not unambiguous for those in this Chamber, even though it is not for those who have not been involved in the procedure of these drafts. But the law should be simple, transparent and understandable, so that everyone who reads it can understand clearly what the legislator has meant. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U81	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U82	All of this reminds me that there are quite a lot of things that you could say "replacement." In my opinion, the biggest problem in alcohol policy today is the failed excise policy and it has resulted in unprecedented border trade. Excise policy itself is, of course, one such measure that can influence alcohol consumption, but it works to a certain extent. If it goes too far, as has now clearly been the case, both in the direct sense and in the transferred sense, there is no point in shouting that alcohol consumption has decreased. Alcohol is simply no longer purchased in this quantity from Estonia, but is purchased in Latvia. It was said at second reading that even the rivers of alcohol flow from Latvia to Estonia. If anyone wants to punch on the chest with a fist, that the bill has already made people drink less, and people die less already because the bill if there is one, I say again: the holidays are coming, I suggest you drive to Ilska or Valka and see what's going on there and what's real life. I am very sorry that not enough attention has been paid to this. However, there are also things in this draft that we will definitely support. In our opinion, it is very right for the emphasis to be placed on minors. Indeed, the possibility that minors will see or hear alcohol advertising is considerably greater than it was perhaps 10 or 15 years ago. I think it is reasonable and right that the state intervenes in social media, where minors may be most affected by alcohol advertising. I totally agree with that. I also agree that lifestyle advertising as such should disappear. I also agree with the fact that soft alcohol advertising has to disappear from public city space. These are the positive and the right things. So this bill as a whole is, as has been said repeatedly in this Chamber, just like the Brezhnev package. There are a whole lot of things that we would like to support with two hands, but there are also things in there that have no justification whatsoever. Why some things are put in there has been called someone's egotrip. Since there are things here that we like, but there are also books in this package that we would never read, much less buy, that is why, and that is why the Reform Party Group alone cannot support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U83	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U84	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna take the word, and I'm gonna go back to Thomas right here. Let's do half that, and maybe we'll drink half that! Our view is that restrictions and regulations do not reduce alcoholism. It may be reduced by this, alright, if there is less advertising, and it is certainly positive that the availability of alcohol among children is restricted to all such things positive. But maybe even more than advertising affects parents' behavior at home. If they consume alcohol in front of their children and do so with pleasure and persistence, then as a next step, if we continue such a ban, we should also ban drinking in our homes. The faction of the Free Party also considers that there are positive things in this law, we are thinking in particular of the places that concern children, but at all, we are also against a highly over-regulated society. We believe that serious social problems must be solved by cultural change, by creating a pleasant environment, by means of a global positive world. It's much more complicated than writing a couple of regulations into the law. That is why we are opposed to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U85	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U86	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been breaking peaks here for a long time, and there have been a lot of intelligent objections about why problems cannot be solved and society must be guided by such a vulgar method of prohibitions and orders. Of course, if there are problems, they have to be solved. There are problems in our society with alcohol, tobacco, etc., but they must be approached sensibly, using common sense. While there are some positive aspects of this draft, it cannot be denied and we certainly support it, as a whole, such tar drops are still hidden inside it, if not to say'swell', so that it cannot be supported in this form or adopted as a law. I do not want to talk any further, because the previous speakers have highlighted the importance. Important points were also raised at second reading of the draft. They say a long story is... a story. I would instead appeal, ladies and gentlemen, to your common sense and, as I said last week, to your gray brain cells. The Conservative People's Party of Estonia does not support this draft in this form, and we, like the political parties of the two previous speakers, will vote against it. I hope that the coalition will abandon its road roll policy and use common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U87	Hardi Volmer on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U88	Honourable President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to take my call today off the record. Unfortunately, I do not consider myself such a skilled rhetorician, and I know that it would be very long. I had a well-known, talented historian who owns a legendary saying that you have to drink so it doesn't stop you from drinking. Sadly, he was unable to follow his own brilliant wisdom and left us for drinking. And he didn't drink out of despair or free will, but because he didn't become any different, being one of the many who would become a so-called physiological addict. The plague of wine and the plague of Villu is this Estonian's inseparable ethos. A study was completed at the World Health Organisation a few years ago, which estimates that the number of addicts among Estonian men may be 11%, so the addict is one in nine Estonian men. This is not only part of the endemic diseases of Estonians, but one of the peculiarities of the Finno-Ugric genotype, as we know. It's nice to be smart about a guy taking vodka, but another guy taking vodka. The availability of alcohol in Estonia is excellent. According to the Institute of Conjuncture, more than 85% of people reach the nearest liquor store in less than 10 minutes. Unfortunately, it also stands out for a child or an addict who fights temptations. Some of my friends and acquaintances who have given up alcohol completely in order to knowingly avoid alcoholosis claim that when forced between the series of bottles in the grocery store, their determination is tested, and I have no reason to doubt their sincerity. Another reason to keep the mind poisons away from the field of vision relates to our children. A child raised in a vodka environment will later find it much harder to make healthy choices in life. In determining the price of alcohol, excise duty is the determining component; everything else is marginal. It has always been played in every society, sometimes successfully, sometimes not. Even the Soviet plan economy could not get along without this lever. Some little Hardi wrote 40 years ago: "The wine has become expensive, how expensive wine is. The hair is torn gray by a lasting beer. " I still patronize this song by presenting it as though it were prophetic, and it is a pure demagogic lie. The same prophecy could be made by the phrase that the sun will rise in the morning. The song is actually about a cologne produced in Latvia called Kasevesi, or Berzu Udens. Everyone at the time knew that this product could not be used for a wide range of targeted uses, mostly just iodine. Older ones remember that the same joke was with famous drinks Hardi and Frigo, also called facial water and continued to be advertised on television. Then they didn't ask, "Why, oh, why? Nor can any government be mentioned in Estonia today, which would not have evenly increased excise duties on alcohol. The latter, as we know, did so disproportionately that the ears of beer producers seemed to have appeared behind this paper. In 2002, the amendment to the Alcohol Act entered into force, according to which the sale of alcohol in stalls was discontinued. In 2008, the amendment to the Alcohol Act entered into force, which imposed a restriction on the sale of alcohol at night: the state banned the retail sale of alcohol throughout the country from 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. in the evening. By the time the state banned the sale of alcohol at night, many municipalities had already imposed this decision. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U89	I'm finished as soon as I can. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm so sorry, I couldn't keep my mind to the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U90	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U91	The ban on the sale of alcohol at night directly reduced offences and improved traffic culture, as we know. It could be said that there were victories. But since then, there has been no significant victory in the country's alcohol policy. In fact, there is also, as always, a question of the need to direct human behaviour. This is a real problem because it is known that an attempt to influence people's purchasing behaviour through their consumption habits is a genuine magic, the results of which can be expected. Yet it is possible. It would be good if it could be done in a very delicate and unnoticed way, but it can't. The question isn't 'Why? ', but still 'How? '. As usual, it's a single point of balance, and that's the swing that, unfortunately, will never stop. Extreme interventions have had disastrous consequences, as we know from history. The functioning of the world is highly complex and there is always a question of where we can go by simplifying it. The holy war with the devil has been going on since the beginning of time. Already in the first country - language papers, drunkenness and the moral limpiness associated with it are being driven. The first official abstinence societies in Estonia were created 130 years ago, but by then the manors had been burned for over 100 years with the tsar ukase. It was a hard business and a state monopoly. It has been proven that by introducing small additional rules for alcohol outlets, we can significantly limit the use of spontaneism and save children and people fighting addiction from temptation. It is clear that the consumption habits of an old villain like me do not change with any pictures of beauty, twisting girls, or trade placement, but it is still possible in the case of an evolving personality. If we want to make a difference, it can be done with the next generation in mind. All studies show that the temptation of vices is cross-generational. There's a difference in availability. Hence the banal conclusion: in order to reduce alcohol harm, total consumption must be reduced. The latter is limited by the three measures: price, advertising, terms of sale. I'm sorry to remind you of this annoying truth here again. But these measures always work together, they're inefficient when they're alone. Now, with your permission, I'll skip the part. 'Jaan drank himself to death. Someone had to drink, somebody had to bring money to the treasury,' wrote a beloved poet in the late 1970s. The final conclusion should be clear to the fellow citizen, the alcohol producer and also the shopper that the selfless death of Jaan was not then and is not in anyone's best interest now. It is true that we drink, either from depressing concerns or from intense joy, but our drinking culture is second to that of many variables than in other parts of Europe in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U92	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U93	The final phrase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U94	Let's just say that may I be allowed to paraphrase the classic: sluts hit a slut, thieves steal, drunken drink, and some of them, chosen, try to create rules for modeling our expected co-operation. Honourables, I invite you to understanding fellowship and co-ordination on this matter. That would be one single call for a Christmas peace. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U95	On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Association.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U96	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Having listened to the speeches of all the political groups, it must be said that there was truth in all the speeches, only one thing was forgotten by all the waitresses. If you look at how this draft came into the Commission and what has become of it today, you will see that there have actually been a lot of compromises. All parties who have taken an interest in the matter, on the one hand or on the other, have been to the Commission, and the Members of the Commission have worked very hard. But one thing really is that 101 members of the Riigikogu often vote on the opinion of one, two or three politicians or officials and this changes certain ways of thinking in Estonian society. I think the bans have gone too far in some respects, but I also have to say the other way around that the version of this law that we are voting on today is now in a package that suffers from voting. However, every draft vote and debate must look at the whole package as a whole, cannot simply hide or prohibit, while at the same time playing with excise duties and increasing or reducing alcohol tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U97	There is no more chance of negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 381. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 381. Please take a stand and vote. There are 49 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 381 as a law, against 40. The Law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U98	Second reading of the draft Act 537 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. Financial Committee waitress Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U99	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 November including. This was discussed by the Commission on 13 November, with the first reading on 6 December, and after that, we had two more debates on this draft: 11 and 18 December. On 11 December, procedural decisions were taken (consensually): to send the draft to the Chamber and put it to the final vote today. On 18 December, we sat down just in case and looked at whether or not there were amendments. There were no amendments. So there should be a final vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U100	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? It is. Deniss Borodich.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U101	Thank you. I just have a general education question. This is a very good bill, and we must definitely be in favour of it. Can you tell us, or did it come to debate why it has taken so many years for the two countries to come to ratification?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U102	Thank you for your question, dear colleague. It would be more interesting to ask for this in the debate on the next item when it comes to an analogous agreement with Japan. In this respect, we were told that the partners had no interest in our economy. But it can now be said that when we asked the committee before the first reading how much the Kyrgyz companies have invested in Estonia, a solid number found out: 13 are companies that have invested directly or indirectly in Estonia. But it cannot be said that someone who would have invested seriously in Kyrgyzia from Estonia would have been found. So, yeah, it's the 58th kind of contract. Some things just take time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U103	No further questions, I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 537. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 537 on the ratification of the treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 75 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U104	Second reading of the draft Act 549 on the prevention of double taxation and the ratification of the Treaty on Tax Avoidance and Prevention of Tax Fraud and the Protocol thereto initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and Japan. The Commission's rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U105	Mr. Chairman! The previous and this draft moved in parallel with the Commission, so all dates are the same. I will only repeat that the preparation for second reading took place in the Commission on 11 and 18 December. On 18 December we simply stated that no amendments had been received, and on 11 December it was established that a second reading should be carried out today and put to the final vote on the draft. There was no substantive debate in the committee before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U106	Questions. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U107	Thank you! Dear waitress, In the case of the previous draft, you brought out very nicely how many Estonian companies there are in Kyrgyza and vice versa. It would also be interesting to hear how many Estonian companies there are in Japan and vice versa. Did this information go through the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U108	Thank you for your question. We did not ask for this in the case of Japan, because before that it sounded like there was not much interest from Japan. I asked a question about pension seniority and the mutual consideration of pensions, because I myself have two acquaintances who work in Japan, and one of them even lives there constantly. So there was talk, sometimes it was also interesting, but the specific number of companies we have from Japan and Japan, unfortunately, did not sound like our companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U109	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U110	Good manager! Good waitress! There were no amendments. Does it make any sense for these types of contracts, or would they dismantle the whole system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U111	Thank you. Well, there was also the question in the Commission that, in fact, the text we are voting on is this, not the text that is being ratified here, this big treaty, but that. [[Shows the text of the draft.]] So it's more of a text that needs to be reviewed linguistically and in at least two languages. Amendments, yes, are practically impossible to make here. But we have to be prepared for someone to want to change something on this first page. I once had an acquaintance in this Chamber who proposed amendments to every bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U112	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U113	President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I have a question: has Japan already ratified this agreement and do they even have to ratify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U114	Yeah, they did that this summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U115	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U116	It was a mistake, it just hit me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U117	No further questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations, no calls. The Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 549 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Estonia and Japan on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion and tax fraud and related protocol initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 549 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U118	Second reading of the draft law amending the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 520. The Cultural Committee waitress, Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U119	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems to me that a smooth introduction to the subject of private school law has already been made today. In fact, the article by Mr Ahto Kivi, representative of private schoolkeepers, 'The private initiative in schooling is important' appeared in Postimees, and although I do not agree with many of the views expressed there, it is in any case a nice introduction to the subject. But let me remind you a little bit about the procedure for this draft. The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Private Schools Act on 27 September 2017. In particular, the draft provides the basis for public funding of the operating costs of private general education schools in addition to the education support granted from the state budget to general school managers. However, the draft does not interfere with the law of local authorities to support private general education schools for their part in covering operating costs. The first reading was closed in the Riigikogu on 19 October and the deadline for submitting amendments was 2 November. The amendments came from Priit Sibula, a member of the Riigikogu, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, the Group of the Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The Committee on Culture also asked the Association of Estonian Municipalities, the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Private General Education Schools, the Association of Estonian Christian Private Schools, the Association of Estonian Free Waldorf Schools and kindergartens and the citizens' movement from Public Education for proposals on the draft and all these also sent their ideas to the Commission. In total, this draft was discussed in the Committee on Culture between first and second readings at five meetings. I can say that most of the discussions took place in parallel with the debate on legislative changes concerning children with special needs, and this debate also took place in this Chamber yesterday. While the amendments to the legislation on children with special needs could be said to have been in the role of a big brother or sister in the Commission, the amendments to the private school law were more like a smaller sister or brother. Before I introduce the amendments separately, I will say that there are at all more than 20 amendments. I share them by subject: fixed-term or permanent licence, the amount of tuition allowed, the part of the local government and the time of entry into force. So the four main issues, so these amendments could be shared. I will now begin with the introduction of the amendments. According to the bill, a private school must be authorised without a time limit in order to be eligible for the allowance. As explained by the representatives of private schools during the procedure of the draft, one of the most common reasons for not granting an open-ended licence to a private school has so far been the fact that there may be a teacher in a private school, perhaps a couple of teachers who do not meet the qualification requirements. I admit, one way or another, it's a painful question, the other way around it makes sense. When it comes to alternative pedagogy, the process of becoming a teacher may not be as smooth or as average. It seems to me that it doesn't always have to be like this, that when a teacher is fine, he's a good teacher or a very good teacher. I believe there are those in this hall to whom the legendary Tõnu Luik taught philosophy at the University of Tartu. He was characterized by two things: first, he usually did not go beyond Plato in his lectures, and second, he had not completed his degrees. But he was in everyone's opinion a legendary, recognized and loved faculty. In any case, the amendment proposes the possibility of establishing, on a case-by-case basis, an assessment of whether the qualifications of teachers involved in teaching are sufficient to ensure compliance with the curriculum in the course of supervision and the issue of an operating or training licence. The burden of proof lies with the supervisor, the Ministry of Education and Research. In the case of an open-ended licence, it will no longer be so strict that all teachers are qualified. Thus, an open-ended licence can also be issued in a situation where some teachers do not meet the qualification requirements, but the completion of the curriculum is nevertheless guaranteed. Secondly, the tuition discounts were discussed, as the original draft contained a possibility that the tuition ceiling would be 20% of the minimum wage and higher if a certain number of students were either partially or completely exempted from the tuition fee. According to the amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture, instead of this distinction, it was preferable for the ceiling to be higher if some pupils are exempt, that the private school law should be supplemented by the requirement that the private school holder disclose on the school website the amount of the tuition fee and the target groups in which students can study in private schools by receiving a tuition fee or not paying tuition fees. Next, the amendments concerning the authorisation for an indefinite period of time. In general, if someone establishes a school, they will initially be granted a fixed-term licence for three to five years and three to five years after the examination of the Ministry of Education and Research has established that everything is in order, then for example, the first school level may be granted an open-ended licence. In the Committee on Culture, we discussed this issue and came to the conclusion that it is necessary for a private school to be authorised for at least one level of school for an unlimited period of time and that the school should have been active for at least four years. So if the school has worked, say, four years and has obtained an open-ended licence for the first level of school, it can also apply for an operating cost subsidy. Now the amendments concerning the amount of tuition fees. The proposals varied from 20% to 35% of the minimum wage. This is a question where there is probably no final or clear position. After all, there are between 20% and 35%, for example, 21%, 22%, 27% or 33%. Of course, private schools want the ceiling to be as high as possible. At the same time, it is understandable for the state to want the tuition ceiling to be low enough so that children of families with lower incomes can also study in private schools. I'm just saying that at the end of the day this percentage was 25%, but as I said, this is a question that can be spoken of endlessly. There was also a proposal that it would change over the years, so that next year, up to 35% would be allowed tuition fees, 30% would pass the year, and then it would reach 25%. Next, the local government agrees to grant the grant. This was the subject of four amendments; I have them listed under 13/15. There was no doubt in this committee. Everyone believed that the local government must have the right to say either final or almost final word on the allocation of operating grants. In short, we have a free country and cannot prevent anyone from setting up a private school, but if, for example, this is directly in conflict with the local government's school network plans, then the mayor can pat the director's shoulder and say, well, do your job, but we are opposed to giving you operating support, otherwise competition is too in favour of one side. Everyone agreed that the local government must have this right. In conclusion, if the municipality agrees to grant operating grants, this is usually the basis for the Ministry of Education and Research to refuse the decision to grant operating grants. Only for the reason that the Ministry has reasonable doubts that the creation of private school places is seeking to replace the obligation to ensure access to education imposed on the local government, the Ministry of Education and Research may not grant operating grants. Now I got a little ahead of myself. This is the case where the local government, through a private school, wishes to ignore the constitutional obligation imposed on it. But what I spoke about earlier, in which case the Ministry of Education and Research may still deviate from the decision of the local government, is linked to educational diversity. The Ministry of Education and Research has the right to decide whether to grant an operating grant without the consent of the local government unit in order to ensure the diversity of education or other public interest. We understood in the Commission that this could only be a very exceptional case. Then there were amendments to the fact that what is included in private school tax should be uniformly understandable and there should be no possibility that private school tax would also include a fee for tours, school meals, etc. during the year. What is included in the private school fee must be unambiguous. There was also the question of the operating cost limit. After all, it has been a long time since municipal schools in Tallinn and Tartu have perceived a certain injustice, since the operating cost subsidy in Tartu, I know, was 63 euros per student a few years ago, I think it was 57.58 euros in Tallinn, but private schools in the same city received support according to the average in Estonia, i.e. 92.93 euros. Yes, there was a certain sense of injustice in municipal schools, but now, according to the draft, operating grants are awarded according to the local government average. According to the proposed amendment, there is an additional clause that this support must not exceed the average in Estonia, because in some municipalities it may have been more than that. So, we have come to the amendments concerning the application of the law. Finally, the amendment that the law will apply in general terms, i.e. it will be published in the State's Official Journal and will be valid 10 days later, remained in the Commission. Procedural decisions: it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 20 December, to propose the termination of the second reading, and when the second reading is closed, we will be proposing that the draft be put to the final vote on 10 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U120	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U121	Good waitress! You talked so hard about this operating grant that I was watching, but I really didn't get it. Now tell me, does anyone have the right to refuse to receive or pay an operating grant? How does this thing really happen? So far, there has been an automatic legal guarantee that this operating grant will come. Is that how it's gonna be now, or is it gonna be different?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U122	At the request of an operating grant, if the private school submits it, the local government's position must be present. If this position is negative, as a rule, no operating grant is paid.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U123	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I looked with interest this morning at the debates on the financing of private schools in the Chamber of the Riigikogu in 2015, reading these verbatim reports and protocols. The Social Democrats were then very clearly opposed to private general education schools being able to finance public funding in the first place, but it is a question of operating costs. What fundamental views have now been re-evaluated, or what new one has shown that this position has changed radically?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U125	I admit to my unfinished work, I really haven't read those previous protocols since I wasn't here so carefully. I remember then sending a letter to Mihkel Raud, who was then on the Committee on Culture. His answer was rather that this is not our fight. I interpreted it as seeking a compromise. It seems to me that a certain compromise was also born. Maybe I hurt Mikk. There was something else in that e-mail that I can't quote from my head right now. It seemed to me that the Social Democrats were rather seeking a compromise on this issue. But I admit my mistake again, I haven't read all those protocols. I promise I'll do it for a long Christmas break.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U126	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U127	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Private schools currently deal with tuition fees in very different ways. In some private schools, tuition is the only money the parent brings to school, but in other private schools, there are many other paid services besides tuition fees. You guys were talking a little bit about the definition of tuition, but I'm gonna ask you again. What was the definition of tuition as of now? What does the draft treat as tuition fees, from which this percentage will be calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U128	The 16th Amendment, the Commission's position, is to take full account of. It reads: 'The tuition fee for the purposes of this section is any fee required of a student or his or her parent for the admission to a private general education school or for the completion of a curriculum, including the establishment of a learning environment. The tuition fee shall not include the costs of activities outside the curriculum, including the costs of activities of interest and after-hours, and the costs of school meals, accommodation, transport and other services supported by learning. '
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U129	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U130	Thank you. Good waitress, you've just betrayed a political secret with a reference to correspondence with Mihkel Raud. I can assure you that the Socats were unambiguously in the same position as Minister of Education Ligi and the Ministry of Education at the time, they were very critical of the financing of private schools in relation to this scheme and very willing to compromise to cancel it, they agreed with the transitional compromise. In case Mihkel said that, it only had the message that let's not do it, we're friends with the IRL, not sticking to our position. That's what it meant, it's not our fight. But my question is about your introduction. You referred to a newspaper article, and there was a hopeful introduction that you would disagree with everything that the lobbyist wrote there. What do you disagree with? I'd like to know what this conceptual concept is. In private, they have repeatedly confirmed that they agree very much with me. But please try these nonconsultations then...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U131	I admit I haven't said this in private, but yes, maybe it was a little easy to quote this newspaper article at first. One of the main things was that I felt that this newspaper article underestimated the desire and ability of the local government to design the school network in a city or rural area and also to shape educational diversity there. It seemed to me that it was against local governments and the state, too, after all, the state holds general education schools and upper secondary schools a little unfair, not even a little, but rather an average injustice against local governments and the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U132	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U133	Thank you. Good waitress! Please specify how many private schools this bill concerns. Or rather, how many of the current private schools fulfil the conditions laid down by this legislative amendment? What is the overall budgetary impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U134	Yeah. I have an Excel table here, but there's no numbering. It's just, if you'll let me, I'll probably tell you. 10, 20, 35, 50, I'm guessing there are about 60 schools here, for example, where you can talk about filling in this 25% tuition fee. At first glance, if this percentage is 252 at an international school, it is clear that there will be no tenfold reduction. Now, if somewhere there is a tuition fee of 46% of the minimum wage, just as there is a private school on the Success Formula, I admit that I don't know anything about this school, it seems to me that they have to work hard. There are also schools where tuition fees are zero, i.e. they still take nothing from the student. In this way, at first glance, you can see a dozen private schools where taking account of this tuition fee is not very easy. But they have several years of transition because 35% is allowed in the first year, 30% in the second year and 25% in the third year. With regard to the operating cost forecast, what it means to the state budget, I have one scrapper, but... [[A voice from the hall.]] I have one... No, for me? Oh, no! Viktoria said to say it louder, but I started to make sure I was talking to the microphone anyway. If you'll allow me, I'm asking you to send it, because I'm not so sure about the numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U135	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U136	Thank you very much. In Europe, private schools are funded differently, with different systems developed. How will you assess where we will belong in Europe, based on the funding of our private schools, in which area if we adopt this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U137	Yeah. I know Scandinavian principles a little better. It is often the case that operating expenditure support can be obtained when tuition fees are not charged. I remember Denmark and I think it was 15% in the Swedish version. But then they look at it so that there's not much difference between spending on one student in municipal school or public school and private school. In Estonia, we look at the costs of a student. There is, of course, an international school, but let's look at, for example, Waldorf schools, Christian schools, or certain alternative pedagogy schools. At least according to the data I have, the costs per student are not very different. You're asking where we're going. Here too, a great deal is also a personal experience. I think I've been to about 20 private schools, and what I'm denying in luxury they don't bathe. Let's look at the Sturdy School or the Catholic School of Tartu. It seems to me that we do not quite fit into the Scandinavian model, maybe we're a little more generous on support. But education is dynamic, not static. Indeed, maybe in five or ten years we will have to revisit these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U138	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U139	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! From what you said, you could expect yourself to find that the local government is "competent to shape the school network," also in terms of diversity. How, then, does this bill end up with an adequate say in the local government? If the municipality does not want such a school, is the State still forced to cover these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U140	My clear understanding is, and at least according to my interpretation, the position in the Commission was that when the local government showed a red light, it was once an expression such as the early red light for the HTM. Yes, it really goes against the same aspect of diversity. I may have taken too much of an article when I said that the local authority can always guarantee the aspect of diversity. In short, in answer to the question, I say that at least I have understood that the red light of the local government also means red light to the HTM, except in some exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U141	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U142	Thank you, dear waitress. If you already have this important table on your desk, would you please look where you can study at a private school free of charge or with a zero tuition fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U143	Ohh! Now, I have Kohila Manor School here, now it's getting sad, now it's tearing in the eye, because it says Krabby School, where I myself have taught for six years and what I no longer have, Käo Elementary School, Village of Inventors, Mikkli School, St Michael School and Rakvere Eragymnasium.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U144	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. It wasn't mentioned in the Commission, but how do you appreciate it? One of the problems we were having came up with was for a moment. How can this quality, diversity and the level of private general education schools be developed and have already become a competitor to the public school network? You yourself have worked as a teacher on a public school network. How serious is this problem in terms of competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U146	The question also concerns educational stratification. I'd be a very poor Social Democrat if I didn't think about it. I will now say two figures, which are actually not statistics, but just two-year extracts. The questioner knows, and I think most of the hall knows that I've been teaching at a very good high school in Treffner for 20 years. If students choose after primary school, Treffner is still one of the first choices. If the level of private schools were to exceed the level of municipal schools or if it were to be seen that there were better conditions, then a pretty high percentage of these children should come to Treffner School. In Tartu there are 12% of children in private schools. Once again, it is not statistics, it is two numbers. In 2015, there were three out of 180 admissions to HTG from private schools. It's over 1%, but less than 2%. 13 children came in 2016. (Sometimes the class starts running after one lead, and they all come.) Yes, of course, I say, this is not statistics in the sense that children are coming to Treffner from South Estonia. But this percentage of students from private schools shows that I do not yet see that the study conditions are better there or that competition is somewhat unequal with municipal schools. I can't see it yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U147	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned earlier that there are certainly certain schools that do not fit into this criterion, I mean 25%. Can you say, however, that if you look at this list today and in two years' time, what do you see how many schools have brought themselves into line with this law? How many really could there be such "good people"?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U149	Yeah, well, the gut tells me that international schools are still on their own. The fee at the Estonian International School is 252% of the minimum wage, 143% at the Tallinn European School. Well, they probably don't. But take Rocca al Mare School, for example, with a fee of 35% of the minimum wage. I'm not quite sure, Liina asked about what was included in the tuition. I admit, I don't have the guts to do divination here. I think 90% is going to get operating support, but 10% is going to be that and that. I dare not say. This is the future, and predicting the future is always one of the most uncertain things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U150	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U151	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In your answer to my question about the future decision-making power of the local government and the state to finance private schools, you were a little vague. Do you not think that the situation that we are creating with this draft will be vague and will be followed precisely by similar litigation as those that are being avoided today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U152	I'd be lying if I told you I wasn't afraid of that at all. Yeah, I know it's a bit of a distraction. But in general, I believe in cooperation in school matters, I believe in cooperation between local government and private school. I think it's possible. Quite clearly, at least in the Commission, the local government's 'no' is also 'no' for the HTM. Yeah, except in very exceptional cases. I can read this place out again: 'If the local government does not agree to grant the grant, this is usually the basis for the Ministry of Education and Research to refuse the decision to grant the operating grant. " At the same time, I admit that in education, I'm a little afraid of things that were finally locked. Education is complicated and exceptional things sometimes happen there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U153	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. We remembered your New Year's promise to delve into former protocols. I am sure my colleagues will not forget this promise. I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Not only does this law look bad, it is also very bad. Here there are rights, freedoms and obligations completely hopelessly upside down, and the worst of all, following Thomas Jürgenstein closely, it turned out that we do not know how confused. We do not really understand what will be decided by the Riigikogu because the rapporteur for the commission says that he hopes, he knows and he thinks. But what's going to happen is actually very important. It is also very important to decide whether this law is necessary for anything at all. Why was it necessary to go after the autonomy of the local government when, in the end, this autonomy is and does not exist, is and is not? Just as it seems better at one question or another. The Scandinavian model it certainly is not because Scandinavia has very strict restrictions on private schools. There are either tuition bans, restrictions on funding or restrictions on teachers' pay. This will ensure that the public service is provided in accordance with the private sector. And what exactly is this messed up? First of all, the state has a duty to provide a free school place for the child and has been able to offer it together with the municipality at world-class level. Top-notch! All the indicators are excellent, there's nothing to complain about, nothing missing. On the other hand, we have always had a very liberal attitude towards any private initiative. There wasn't anything to complain about for a while here either, in the last decade. Private schools received teachers' pay, they received educational resources and more nipple-tips in the same way as municipal schools, but still, the private sector remained private, it created some kind of risk and assumed some kind of contribution that allowed fairer competition. What has happened now is that if we compromised during the previous government that the way of saying, over-funding or over-guaranteeing will gradually disappear, the municipalities will be able to decide for themselves whether or not they will pay for the boxes, then the new government first decided to do things backwards and break this difficult compromise. We still do not understand whether or not he is engaged in the restoration of operating aid. It does not make sense that the state competes with municipal schools to the extent that municipal schools have responsibilities and private schools have rights only. It does not make sense to have a management model where one decides and the other is billed. One decides to set up a school and the taxpayer is billed and has to pay automatically. We don't know exactly what's going on with this right now. After all, the crime is that the country does not have a serious problem of quality, because we provide a very uniform education. We already have no problem with real estate: there are very many schools, there are extra school space, there are fewer children and there are too many school spaces. We pay for local governments to reduce school space. At the same time, we pay innumerablely to increase the number of private schools. This prevents the optimisation of education costs, the targeting of money to improve the content of education and teacher's pay. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U155	Please! Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U156	We are in a situation where the private sector is in every way more national than the public sector itself. According to the law, he has full state guarantees, he is not subject to the inevitable reform of the school network and will also receive more rights. The state has the right to charge tuition fees and operating expenses and the money for teachers' salaries and educational resources is its name. Incontroversial. The law has dealt with nonsense again. Why does everything need to be regulated? Again, it's a private sector, but we regulate it like a state. Even the website will be regulated by law. We regulate tuition. Why do we have to deal with them in this place? If they are to be sustainable, we will give them a better opportunity to develop economic activity. No, we're going to regulate basically the level of tuition and also what you get for that tuition fee! We're going to regulate the school's own budget! Where else do we get into the private sector like that? This is bullshit. Think, the Committee on Culture, what do you do? These are not sections of the law, this is not the logical structure of the state! Yesterday was just like that. Incontroversial. When Mailis Reps comes and says that he is in favour of increasing the responsibility of local governments in HEV schools, the next draft says no, he takes this responsibility or discretion away from the municipalities. I don't know if it's returned or not. This, however, would be asked to be made clear to the legislator. Of course, there are serious risks of education stratification. There is a kind of social networking, like in Russian school, some more favourable funding conditions will certainly grow society in a different way, and our school of convergence is actually in some way under attack. I'd still like to knock on the conscience of the Sots. It's ridiculous to go to a private school and tell them he has to have free seats. Pay for this place if you need it! Pay for this student position, but don't give him any free place assignment! That sucks! It's some kind of Brezhnev package, some kind of socialist national regulation, even though it's the private sector. Why can't he choose if he's gonna do it? Why do we have to write things like that? I would remind you that there have always been very critical local governments, the President, the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office in relation to this law. I'm not making any party obsession here, it's the most translucent regulation ever. We're making a big mistake and a very confusing system. And there is no understanding of what that purpose is. The aim cannot be to make paid education available. This is what the state pursues in such a way that it provides free education, that it has a school network, that it has teachers, that it has a know-how. So I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U157	Liina Kersna will continue to discuss the provisions of the draft law. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U158	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The US economist Liberal Milton Friedman, who is considered one of the most important economists in the 20th century, has said that if the state has given parents the freedom to choose a child's school and it is also funded, the educational costs of the state may be reduced, even though total spending is increasing as the state's contribution is increased by the share of parents. According to Friedman, the role of the State should be limited to requiring schools to meet established standards. School funding models have increasingly moved in Europe towards supporting the autonomy and freedom of parents to choose the right school for their children. Statistics show that in Finland, Sweden and Norway, parents contribute the least to education, slightly above 0.1% of GDP. Belgium, Estonia, Denmark and Iceland contribute to education in a similar order. In these countries, parents contribute 0.3 to 0.5% of their GDP to education. As the number of students in private schools shows a stable growth trend in Estonia, the contribution of parents to education has also increased. For example, while in 2012 Estonian parents contributed nearly 4 million euros to education, in 2014 8 million already. This is a very important contribution to education. At the same time, data show that in countries where parents contribute little, the country itself contributes significantly more to education than in other Member States of the European Union. While in the European Union, on average, parents contribute 0.8% of GDP to education and 5.3% of public funds are allocated to education, in the Scandinavian countries, they contribute 6% of public money, while in Denmark they contribute 9% of GDP. For example, in Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Slovakia, nearly 100% of private school funding comes from public funds. In Slovenia, Germany, Belgium, Hungary and Luxembourg, private schools' budgets are financed from public funds by 80 to 90%, while in Great Britain and Greece, for example, private schools receive less than 1% of their budgets. According to OECD statistics, the funding of Estonian private schools from public funds is between 70 and 80%. Thus, as a state, we contribute less to private schools and parents contribute more than in Scandinavia on average. It is important, however, that the higher the public funding of private schools, the smaller the social stratification between private and municipal schools. This is demonstrated by research, and it is worth keeping in mind when creating a model for financing private schools. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U159	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U160	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I've already said most of the things, and now there's a few more things. First of all, from the Excel table where there was no numbering. There were 54 private schools. I've been doing some math for a while. Secondly, thank you very much to the previous speaker, Liina. I was, like, in a different opinion or in a different opinion, that there is still more to bet in Estonia than in Scandinavia, but now I have found out. A person learns all his life, I've learned something again. Thank you. I guess we're going on with this bill with a little conflicting feelings. The topic of private schools brings together responsibilities of the state and local authorities, private initiative and interest, parents' wishes, curriculum, of course, students who deserve equal opportunities. I will also say my guiding principle at a very early stage: I think the educational landscape is dynamic, not static, and it will be perfectly natural if we come back to these issues, perhaps in five years' time, perhaps someday later. Yeah, well, school's changing too. I certainly don't idealize private schools, they all have their strengths and weaknesses. The Estonian educational landscape has things that municipal and public schools have learned from private schools, but private schools have also learned from municipal and public schools. I have a bit of a professional approach, but it seems to me that private schools are also a matter of faith. For example, I really believe in cooperation between local government and private school. In the example of the city of Tartu, this option exists. In private schools, 12% of middle school students study there, and as Riho Raave, Head of the Education Department of Tartu, has said several times, private schools have helped the city save more than one school building money. Whether it's an exact number of 1.3 or 1.5, the city should have built a school for that money. And that's not a small amount. I also believe in the diversity of education. It seems to me that this community-centredness, the involvement of parents and perhaps a little bit of apologize also for the overcompensation of grades, the superiority of grades, many municipal and public schools have learned from private schools. There are often certain things left in private schools, for which we do not have a very clear view of how it works. I bring an example of Pärnu Sütevaka Humanitaargymnasium, where so far there is also a part of the progymnasium, which in general is no longer present in Estonia. There it works, and I don't know, at some point this experience might be very useful to us. There's nothing to do. I believe in human wisdom. I don't think anyone's starting school because of spite. The fact that he must have been in business for four years and have been authorised for an unlimited period of time is still a sufficiently narrow needle-eye. There's a person with good ideas going through there, but the fortune-seeker stays there. Once again, I'm supposed to be a messed-up fool and... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U161	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U162	I should be a moron and very little social democracy if the subject of education stratification does not excite me. Let me rename these figures. In 2015, there were three private schools of 180 admissions to Treffner, and in 2016 there were 13 of them. When we talk about stratification, it seems to me that we should talk more about school tests or parental donations in municipal schools, which is a known fact. To sum it up. I've been to a lot of private schools. Even so, personal experience often works well when making a summary assessment. What have I seen in these schools? I've often seen ideas there and quite a bit of luxury. There's no luxury, but there are ideas. Rather, it suffers from narrow conditions for ideas. It seems to me that ideas may still go on and in five or ten years' time, but maybe earlier we'll look at this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U163	Priit Onions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U164	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words on education issues in general, not only specifically about this draft, on which I will of course also say my opinion. Changes in the PGS and the Private School Act are made in the hope that children will receive the best education given their abilities and interests. Unfortunately, as an evaluator of the good of education, I do not see a country but a parent. In Estonia, it is often seen that the municipality or the state think that children are their property, the resource by which the money comes into the budget or by which it goes out of it. In addition, this resource will become a fame, a PISA-fame. This attitude reminds me of serfdom, early 19th century and previous life arrangements in Estonia. As conservative as I am, I don't want to go back to that time for every nuance. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that tax money is a citizen's, and the state and the municipality can only be good helpers who allow this money to move to the school that the parent himself prefers. In this way, I am pleased that the problem of financing private schools has finally been resolved and can be more or less satisfied. This is a step in the right direction, towards stability. I would like to thank the coalition partners and the minister, who actively thought along and sought the best possible solution in good faith, so that parents can be the primary responsible for the education of their children by virtue of the spirit of the Constitution. Stability in covering the operating costs of private schools and the application of reasonable tuition fees gives parents the opportunity to find suitable education for their children. True, it would be even better if we reached a financing model one day, which means that no matter who the schoolkeeper is, it is the state, the municipality, a non-profit association set up by parents, a foundation created by educational enthusiasts, or someone else. When we talk about the rational use of tax money, we need to talk not about ownership in schools, but about the number of students and the reasonable exceptions that we are prepared to allow. I know there's gonna be hair on that story for the speakers of the uniform school. It seems to me that they're looking at the wrong place in the uniform school, in the ownership form. Unity, where upper secondary schools belong to the state and primary schools belong to the municipalities and are taught by obedient serfs, is not very good. I'm a redneck. I went to school in Valga. When I look at the speakers for the convergence school, I see that they have mostly graduated from an elite school or that their children are in it. One of my former party associate ministers laughed at Tallinn's teachers when speaking about the school near home, he gave an example of his school trip to Miina Härma Gymnasium. One of the speakers for yesterday's convergence school has preferred a school for their children with separate classes of boys and girls, one of Estonia's most distinctive schools, by the way, also a school where children with very different special needs were studying long before we started directing these children to a regular school with the help of the law. I prefer my children to study in a private school that is very community-based in nature. I was fascinated by this communityism when my children went to Põlva private school in kindergarten. I have also stood up for the Pühajärve School, which has also excelled in its communityhood. It's possible these schools remind me of my own school in Valga, which wasn't a combination school either. I like convergence school, too. Private schools are part of the model of a sound school of convergence. Reasonable convergence is achieved through common standards and curricula, leaving sufficient room for the school to be unique. It offers solutions to problems in the local educational environment and allows smartness to be used to exploit the opportunities created by the community. Let us support parents'ability to be first in charge of choosing education for their children. Long live community schools! The amendments to the Private School Act will certainly help in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U165	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U166	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian-language school system began in 1906 and was called the School of Harmonisation. The first definition of "University School" made sense to the entire education system. This was the education that a child may have needed, and the peak of which, according to the understanding of that time, was higher education, which was to produce again those who knew, knowledge and creators who carried on Estonian culture. When, in 2015, in this Chamber, we passionately argued whether or not to finance private schools and, if financed, to what extent, the Free Party was a party, and is also of the opinion today that private general education schools are part of the school network. Our own thinking, our own understanding of education, is the meaning of this school network as a whole. Private general education schools, which are usually smaller and more compact, are also more responsive to innovations, they are more flexible, they can and will more quickly adopt the innovations actually needed for the whole school system. Of course, it's also great that there's a competitive moment in this whole school process, a competitive moment. All teachers acknowledge that teachers are not only assisted by advanced courses, but also by seeing any innovations implemented quickly and by seeing what opportunities are available. You don't always have to drive across the border. So in the opinion of the Free Party Group, it is very simple. What bothers us and interferes with this bill is, in fact, the lack of a complete picture. Yesterday we dealt with the basic school and upper secondary school law, said that now we give the local governments money and they should answer. Now, in the case of private schools, we say that local authorities cannot trust them as well as they do. So what do we want from our education system? Who do we trust? Do we have any bosses who can say that it's the best and that it's the best? Lack of integrity, lack of meaningful approach. Where is our education law, which should explain exactly what our primary education is all about, what we expect from upper secondary school education and where is vocational education? We are saying that vocational education is not popular. This is all part of a single system, it should be seen as a whole, and then private general education schools will also receive the meaning, the ability and the importance that they should actually have and at times have. Whether these are Christian schools, these are Waldorf schools, or some other private schools, they are all very necessary. But we will deal with it in such a way that there will be a problem with elite education and diversity. These are natural parts of the educational process. Another thing that bothers us and which is very unfortunate is that on the one hand, operating subsidies are granted very nicely, but on the other hand, it is again stratified into very precisely small parts. If we trust private schools, I hope that we trust and believe that local governments and private schools work together, let us not write in with the other hand state socialism. These things don't have to go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U167	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. 23 amendments have been tabled to this draft law; we will examine them together. The first amendment has been proposed by the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. It is also the decision of the commission to take full account of the second amendment. The third amendment, the author of the proposal is Priit Sibul, the decision of the commission is to take part. The fourth amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The fifth amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to take part in the consideration. The seventh amendment is from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The eighth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the commission has partially taken into account. The ninth amendment is from the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union; the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. The tenth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Under § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. Amendment 11 is from the Committee on Culture, to be fully taken into account. Amendment 12 was also fully taken into account. Amendment 13 is from the Committee on Culture, as well as fully taken into account. Amendment 14 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to consider the substance. Amendment 15 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the Committee on Culture has taken the substance into account. Amendment 16 is from the Committee on Culture and has been fully taken into account. Amendment 17 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the commission has taken the substance into account. Amendment 18 is from the Committee on Culture, the lead committee has taken full account of it, the same applies to Amendment 19, which has been fully taken into account. Amendment 20 is from Priit Sibula; part of this has been taken into account by the commission. Amendment 21 is from the Committee on Culture; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 22 is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U168	I would also like to ask that this amendment be fully taken into account and done so through the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-20_U169	This is only possible through the vote. I'll put it to a vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to adopt Amendment 22. The decision of the Governing Commission is not to be taken into account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 35 parliamentarians in favour of the proposal and 42 against it. The proposal of the Estonian Reform Party was not supported. Amendment 23 is from the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Under § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the proposal is not to be voted on. The amendments to the draft regulation 520 have been examined with you. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 520, but the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has brought a paper to the table proposing to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the private school law and other laws related to it. We have a vote ahead of us. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I am voting on the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft law 520. Please take a stand and vote. 30 parliamentarians voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and the second reading of draft 520 has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. See you tomorrow at 10:00! Closure of the sitting at 4.04 p.m.
