ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable ambassadors! We will begin the plenary session on Thursday. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Honourable Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to report on the Estonian Border Guard, its future and present. Regulation No 1624 of the European Union of 14 October 2016 established the European Union Border and Coast Guard, consisting of the European Union Border and Coast Guard Agency and the national authorities responsible for border management in the Member States. It is incomprehensible why our Police and Border Guard Board as a whole must be part of the European Union's Border and Coast Guard Agency. First of all, the Integrated Border Management Office of the Police and Border Guard Board is not equivalent to a national agency. We can conclude that the restoration of independent Estonian border guards has essentially become a task for the European Union. In addition, we point out that cooperation between national defence structures and the PBGB is not sufficient to ensure the implementation of a broad-based defence concept. In this regard, we have six questions and we are honoured to hand them over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U3	I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, it shall be forwarded to a member of the government. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U4	The national issue of importance on our agenda is the foreign policy. I would like to introduce that, in accordance with § 153 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau, on a proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, has set out the following procedure for discussing foreign policy as an important national issue. First of all, the Foreign Minister is Sven Mikser's presentation, which lasts up to 20 minutes, with questions and answers lasting up to 90 minutes. Then there will be a presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which will last up to 15 minutes, and the questions and answers will last up to 60 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may put together two oral questions. The negotiations will then begin. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also proposed to extend the session if necessary, but this need will be revealed in the course of the work. Let's get started. Waitress Foreign Minister Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Guests! Today's presentation of our foreign policy directions and goals I will begin with fundamental values. I want to share with you a reminder more than 15 years ago, from September 2001 when I was a young Member of the United States. Our guest program began on the morning of September 11, with an introductory briefing at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it was interrupted only a few minutes later when terrorist-run aircraft hit the towers and the Pentagon of the World Trade Center in New York. Late in the evening of that depressing day, I watched President Bush turn on TV in my hotel room to shocked fellow nationalists. In this brief speech, he said, among other things: 'By means of deliberate and murderous acts of terror, our fellow citizens, our way of life, our freedom, were attacked today. [... ] Terrorist attacks may shake the foundations of our largest buildings, but they cannot move the foundation on which America stands. [... America was the target of this attack because we are the brightest beacon of freedom and opportunity in the world. And no one can put that flame out. Today, we saw evil, we saw the worst side of human nature, and we answered with the best of what is America. ' Of course, I am not talking about America here today, but about Estonia and Estonia's foreign policy objectives. However, I believe that we could keep these words and, above all, their point in mind and try to be guided by them at a time when all these values, as well as the way of life that we aimed at restoring our freedom, have fallen under very heavy pressure. We should think about what it is that we remain true to and that we are not prepared to retreat from, even when the world around us is changing in a frightening way. In the years following the restoration of independence, we lived in the belief that democracy and humane values had won. But it soon became clear that totalitarianism, conquestalism, extreme ideologies, and fundamentalism will not go away without resistance. Not in the Middle East, North Africa, where the world has to fight religious terrorist organisations, while seeking solutions to the problem of civil wars and humanitarian disasters, nor in our eastern neighbourhood, where authoritarian ex-superpower tries to restore his lost hegemony by means of a weapon. There has been much debate on the value-based nature of foreign policy in this Chamber. Today, following the news that reaches us from the capitals of the world, the news of plans to restore the death penalty, legalize domestic violence, introduce torture as an interrogation technique, we see that the issue of the value of politics is not just an intellectual dilemma. We can see that not only Estonia, but also our neighbours, partners and allies are struggling with this embarrassment. And the right answers are no longer as obvious as we thought. However, I would like to confirm that the best way to defend the national interests embodied in the preamble to our constitution is to remain true to our values in both internal and foreign policy. The alliance between countries and nations that respect democracy, the rule of law and humane values and the world order based on international law and rules offer the best protection for our own existence and freedom. This common section of values and interests should guide us through complex choices. Last year has been a dramatic and eventful year since the last foreign policy debate, both internationally and internally. The Foreign Minister's portfolio has also changed its ownership twice during this period, so let me instead of the usual report speech cast a geographical panoramic glimpse of foreign policy objectives now and also in the near future. First of all, I'm talking about transatlantic relations. For decades, the alliance between Europe and North America has been the backbone of the international security architecture and will continue to do so. This relationship is based on shared values and a sense of cultural cohesion and a convergence of strategic interests. Europe, including Estonia, has always been and will continue to be interested in America being balanced and economically, politically and militarily strong. It is also important for us to have a commitment by the United States to allied responsibilities, including participation in the security of Europe in the face of military threats. In order to see the Americans' continued commitment to allied responsibilities towards Europe, it is also our duty to understand the concerns and expectations of America. The desire for European countries to bear a fair share of the burden of security is understandable and natural. As one of the few NATO allies who fulfil their commitments to making defence spending, Estonia supports the principle that all allied states should do the same. We have stood as allies alongside the Americans in Afghanistan, Iraq and several other crises, and that will continue to be the case. Estonia will always remain a firm ally of the US, and we will work to ensure that the US remains our firm ally, whose support we can count on and be sure of. Today, just after the new administration has taken office, our primary task is to establish operational channels of communication with the US administration and to maintain and intensify contacts with both chambers of Congress, the numerous think tanks of the United States and the Estonians of America. The implementation of these objectives will be one of the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in strengthening our foreign policy in the coming years. The view of the new administration on how to proceed with the negotiations on a free trade agreement with Europe is still in the process of being developed. As a fundamental supporter of free trade, Estonia wishes to continue this process, but regardless of the recent developments in free trade, there is plenty of room for improvement in trade relations between Estonia and the US, and it is in Estonia's interest to use the opportunities of the American market. I am now talking about the challenges facing Europe. For decades, the European Union has moved towards enlargement and integration. This trend was broken in the Brexit referendum. Neither British policy-makers nor the leaders of continental Europe could presumably foresee that the British decision to continue in the European Union would be negative. I don't want to pretend like I was hoping for it or waiting for it either. However, Estonia fully respects the democratic decision made by its close ally. In the forthcoming departure negotiations, Estonia wishes to maintain the unity of the 27 Member States. We have no reason to speculate on the outcome of the talks. However, it is in our interest to have a result that does not undermine the unity of the European Union and also preserves the opportunity for the European Union to work closely with Britain that has left the Union. An important part of the negotiations takes place at a time when Estonia holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This gives us a great deal of responsibility for the progress of this process, although the Commission has a European tie in the negotiations. Our task as President-in-Office is to ensure the smooth running of the process and the flow of information between the Member States and the institutions of the Union. Despite Britain's departure from the European Union, the United Kingdom is one of Estonia's most important partners in bilateral cooperation, and it will remain that way. Northern Baltic regional cooperation with the British is also important to us. I would like to specifically emphasise Britain's willingness to continue to play an active role in European security. This is important to us because it is Britain that will send its units to the NATO contingent in Estonia as a framework country. Good listeners! The migration crisis may not seem as acute today as it was a year ago, as its numerical figures have decreased almost three times since last year. However, the root causes of migration in the Middle East and Africa have not disappeared, so the pressure for forced migration and economic immigration to Europe remains. The internal and external dimensions of European migration policy are closely linked. With regard to the external dimension of migration, the European Union is active in three areas, each of which Estonia also contributes. Firstly, the implementation of the EU-Turkey agreement on migration, secondly, the protection of the Union's external borders, thirdly, addressing the root causes of migration. Cooperation with African countries is of critical importance for the latter. However, dealing with the internal dimension of migration requires consensus to be found and maintained among the members of the European Union and requires all of them to fulfil their responsibilities. One of the most serious security threats in Europe is terrorism. Although the threat of terrorism in Estonia has not increased according to our threat assessments, it does not leave us directly untouched. We recall that two Estonian citizens also lost their lives in last year's terrorist attack in Nice. There is no rapid miracle cure against radicalisation and terrorism, nor is it a magic cure for the closure of Europe's internal borders. As Europeans, we have already started to take for granted European freedoms, including the free movement of persons, and no longer see what a blow the loss of these freedoms would be to our daily lives, but also to our economic well-being. The preservation and sustainability of the Schengen area are vital for Estonia. Prevention of terrorist attacks, however, is only possible in the joint work of partners and allies. To this end, cooperation needs to be improved to prevent terrorism, prevent planned attacks, increase awareness of threats and improve society's crisis preparedness. All of this must also be dealt with at national level. Good listeners! It will soon be 60 years since the Treaty of Rome was concluded. On the brink of this anniversary, many Europeans find that the whole of Europe's idea has come into crisis. Apart from Brexit's talks, the migration crisis and the need to rethink the nature of transatlantic relations, we can see that in many European countries there is an increase in Europe's critical moods and the popularity of the political forces that encourage them. In order to preserve the unity of Europe that is essential to our security, we should not now envisage ambitious reforms of the fundamental principles of the European Union, but should, above all, focus on securing what has been achieved over the decades. We also need to think much better about communicating with our own citizens, many of whom perceive the Union, whether for good or without justification, as an elite project. The key topics of the debates on the future of Europe - security assurance and economic growth - are also central issues for Estonia's development. Like our security, Estonia's economic success depends on European developments and trends. The fact that supporting Estonian companies in foreign markets is one of the central tasks of all our foreign representations is so obvious to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that sometimes we forget to even mention it separately. Yes, with a small, open and export-oriented economy, Estonia can only win from the possibility of trading freely on export markets. We have therefore always supported the fundamental freedoms of the European Union, i.e. the free movement of goods, services, capital and people. Alongside these four freedoms, the introduction of free movement of data for the fifth freedom data is also important for our innovative e-state. Protectionism is not a solution to the world and does not lead to economic growth. Honourable representatives of the people! The European Union's Global Strategy, which was completed last year, outlines those areas where ensuring security requires more effective cooperation from its members. I note the resilience of our societies to hybrid threats and to improving the continuity of critical infrastructure, as well as joint military procurement, cooperation in defence science and technology and joint action between the European Union and NATO. The Global Strategy draws attention to the need to better link the internal and external activities of the European Union and to increase geographical flexibility between eastern and southern activities. These principles are very well aligned with Estonia's perceptions of the rational use of resources and the lack of sharing of security. Good listeners! In the second half of this year, we will be the first Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In this role, our visibility and influence is greater than ever since our accession to the Union in 2004. In January, the Government of the Republic confirmed the Presidency's priorities; the final programme of the Presidency will only take place by the end of June, when Estonia will take over the notice stick from Malta. However, I can already say that it focuses on developing an innovative, secure, digital and inclusive Europe. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, of course, the Digital Agenda and the Eastern Partnership are of particular importance. We are the most convinced advocates of Eastern Partnership policy in Europe. Europe's attention to this region and supporting the sovereign decisions and territorial integrity of the Eastern partners is in the interests of European security and stability. It is important that both the Eastern partners and the citizens of the Union perceive the tangible benefits of partnership policy. A crucial issue is the possibility of visa-free travel, both in the case of Georgia and in the case of Ukraine, we have reached the end of this long process. The central themes for promoting cooperation between the European Union and the Eastern partners are the economy, public administration, education, as well as the creation and maintenance of people-to-people contacts. It is important that the direction for Europe should continue to encourage the Eastern partners to reform their countries and societies. At the same time, we must achieve that the Eastern Partnership is not only perceived as a niche interest in Central and Eastern Europe, but is a common thing for all Member States. It is in this context that it is important to make the best use of the Eastern Partnership Summit held during the Estonian Presidency in Brussels in November, which sums up what has been achieved and sets the future goals. By now moving from the European Union to the security developments in the east, we cannot, of course, overlook Russia, whose political leadership has not abandoned its attempt to change the European security order by force of war and by disregarding international law. It will soon be three years after the illegal annexation of Crimea. This is, unfortunately, a long enough time for the subject of aggression against Ukraine to begin to fall behind the focus of the world public and also from the fronts of the press. Our task is to keep it on the agenda both in bilateral foreign relations and in international organisations, and not to let the world or the aggressor forget that the injustice that has been created has not been remedied, the territorial integrity of Ukraine has not been restored, the Crimea has still been occupied and illegally annexed, and the military activities in Eastern Ukraine continue and have been escalated in recent weeks, with brutal attacks on civilians as well. I stress: as long as Russia continues to violate international law and does not comply with its commitments, there can be no question of a return to confidence or a return to normal association. I agree with the views expressed in the interview given to Politico a few weeks ago by Mitch McConnell, a leader of the Free State of the United States of America. The senator recalled that there is a particular reason for the sanctions imposed against Russia, namely Russia's behaviour in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine and, in the case of America, its attempts to intervene in the elections. If there is a country in the world that does not deserve to be sanctioned, then it is Russia, said McConnell. Estonia's position is also clear: sanctions must apply until the Minsk agreements have been fully met. The validity of sanctions must not be artificially linked to other issues; it must remain an indispensable prerequisite for their mitigation to be the return of Russia to the principles of international law and the fulfilment of its commitments. On the contrary, in the event of Russia moving away from meeting these obligations, we must be prepared to tighten up sanctions. In addition to political and moral support, Ukraine also needs practical assistance and support. The country's fundamental reform process requires effort at all times. Ukraine is carrying out complex reforms, while at the same time fighting for its independence and integrity. I can assure you that Estonia will continue to support Ukraine and other Eastern Partnership countries through development cooperation to help these countries and societies reform and increase their resilience. Honourable listeners! Conflicts and humanitarian crises in the southern neighbourhood of the European Union may seem distant to us, but they also directly affect us. Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Libya and the Sahel countries are just a few examples of crises in Europe's southern neighbourhood. It is these conflict zones that are the starting point for a large part of the migration flows and refugees moving towards Europe. We understand the indivisibility of international security and the need to show solidarity with our allies and to understand their security concerns. Apart from our participation in international military and peacekeeping missions, we are also working with partners on the root causes of the migration crisis and international terrorism. The best way to do this is to help countries in crisis to strengthen their structures and improve their performance. In this way, we create the prerequisites that people should not be forced to leave their homes in search of a safe and dignified life. We have shared and will continue to share our experience in ICT and e-governance, cyber security, as well as the promotion of women's and children's rights. We also support the development of European trade policy so that its southern neighbours can use their own economic potential to ensure the well-being and livelihood of their people. During the Estonian Presidency of the European Union, the European Union-Africa Summit will take place in Abidjan in November, which will focus on one of the key issues of economic development, the creation of opportunities for the future of young people. Of course, when we talk about the conflicts in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union, we cannot stop at the Syrian civil war, which has led to one of the worst humanitarian disasters of recent years. A sustainable solution to the Syrian crisis requires a political process and an international consensus-based agreement. Thus, Estonia supports those initiatives that bring peace and stability to a country affected by war and violence, but we also support Syrian war refugees by participating in their relocation and by making a financial contribution to humanitarian aid funds and projects. However, a political solution does not mean and must not mean that those who have committed monstrous crimes against the Syrian people could remain unpunished. Good people's representatives! Previously, 2016 was a dramatic and eventful year in foreign policy. But there's no reason to expect the year to start to be easier. 'What's past is prologue,' says Antonio William Shakespeare in 'Tormis'. Our foreign and security policy horizon is far from cloudless today, but I am convinced that our state ship is also designed to sail on stormy waters, and the experience of our work so far and the experience of it, and the allied relations created, have prepared us well to cope with future storms. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U6	The first questioner is Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U7	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State! Most of the ideas were very clear, some of them may have been a little incomplete, but the time limits are ahead. For the first time, however, I feel that Parliament has reason to be concerned about foreign policy, not because of your identity. Today's Estonian Päevaleht laments the loss of passion for foreign policy. It's not surprising in itself, it was predictable, but sadder is what's happened with orientation. Were you present at the government meeting where the Prime Minister's statement was made, everyone got the floor, the text was edited and, at least in one important place, its wording was greatly softened in favour of Russia? This means that Russia will no longer be mentioned there. There were other proposals, some of them did not pass. But that particular thing...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U8	The question goes to the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U9	... touched Syria and was also at odds...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U10	There was a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U11	Thank you. First of all, let us take this opportunity to confirm that the foreign and security policy course of Estonia has not changed with the entry into office of this government. Neither as far as Russia is concerned, nor as far as Ukraine is concerned, nor in any other area. Responding specifically to your question about the cabinet session, which discussed the text of the declaration of the December Prime Minister meeting, I said that I was in Hamburg during this cabinet session. The OSCE held an annual ministerial meeting there. It must be said that this meeting of the cabinet took place after the government had been in office for about two weeks. I spoke to the Prime Minister on the phone after this meeting, actually the same night, and my recommendation was not to go to draft together. This text was actually put on the table, as far as I know, to discuss the points relating to the construction of Rail Baltic. In this area, too, which may not be very sensitive in terms of security policy, but it is certainly important, it is probably not wise to draft the tripartite declaration jointly behind the cabinet table. As far as rumors are concerned, as if the text had been made weaker, I have listened with some concern to hints, as if we had given such signals to several politicians from our colleagues in Latvia and Lithuania. I understand that it is relatively simple and safe to make such claims, because who will still find out and root out your sources in Latvia and Lithuania. However, I would like to emphasise one thing, because I think that many of those who are talking about weakening the text have not read the text themselves. I want to quote this text and do it in my own free translation, because I have this text ahead of me. As regards foreign policy, the Prime Ministers stressed their strong support for the protection of Ukraine's sovereignty and the restoration of territorial integrity, and expressed their appreciation for the European Union and the transatlantic unity in this area. The current sanctions, sanctions policy and principles of the European Union must remain valid until Russia returns to compliance with the principles of international law, including the full and irreversible implementation of the Minsk agreements. The Prime Ministers stressed the firm and continued support of the Baltic States for the policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol, stressed the importance of international consensus on this issue, as well as the importance of coordinated messages for violations of international law by Russia, especially in Ukraine. They also expressed disappointment at developments in economic and business relations, which are far removed from the spirit of both the World Trade Organisation and international economic cooperation. If you have a text that is even stronger in terms of Russia and which has, as if, been under discussion, I look forward to reading it with great interest. It is certainly possible to seek confirmation that, after the Reform Party has left power, Estonia's foreign policy has become weaker or less determined in some way, but it is not necessary to look in places where it is not really confirmed, even less so can be found there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you for your report. You really are in a bit of a special situation before us, because if you take this presentation as an annual review of foreign policy, you must remember that during the year we have had three ministers in office, and the Estonian Presidency in the Council of Europe also remained in office. To be clear, it is not in the Council of the European Union, but in this older, more-member organisation that defends democratic values and freedom. The previous questioner, Mr Ligi, also found himself in a very difficult position as a minister when he, having received a fresh post, had to answer the questions raised by politicians in the Council of Europe. It couldn't have worked out very well. But my summary question is: what were the achievements of the Estonian Presidency and what went wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U14	Thank you. This was a second time when Estonia was President of the Council of Europe. Our main topics were gender equality, children's rights, but also human rights on the Internet. Several high-level conferences also took place between May and November on these issues. A total of 12 high-level meetings took place, in cooperation with the Troika. We can count our Presidency as a success because we certainly succeeded in contributing to the development and promotion of common values. Not only did my predecessor get in the grip of questions, but certainly also the fact that during our Presidency there was a military coup attempt in Turkey, our role as President-in-Office brought further attention and focus. It gave us some opportunities, but it also gave us responsibilities. Human rights cooperation with international organisations other than the Council of Europe is certainly important to Estonia. In cooperation with Germany as Chairman of the OSCE, a conference on freedom of the Internet was organised, together with UNICEF a high-level side event on Children in the Migration Crisis. Yes, the events you mentioned were attended by Jagland, Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Deputy Director General of UNICEF, including young refugees. I think that one of Estonia's most important achievements is not directly related to our Presidency of the Council of Europe, but to our own domestic activities, which may be inspired by the Presidency of the Council of Europe. It forces us to fulfill our commitments. Estonia fulfilled its commitment to ratify the Lanzarote Convention, which was deposited in Strasbourg by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the last day of the Ligi Presidency, on 22 November. The Presidency was certainly a difficult task, all the more so as the foreign minister exchanged in Estonia during this period. I believe we've had valuable experience. I think we took this big ship through the difficult waters a little further. It cannot be denied that things in the world are not particularly rosy in terms of equality and human rights. In my speech, I also mentioned that things that we may have gotten used to taking for granted in the last decade may not seem so obvious at the same time. But I believe that Estonia will continue to play an active role in the Council of Europe even after the Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U15	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U16	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear waitress, I also thank you for your presentation. One of the key words in the area of foreign policy is obviously security. However, foreign investment and the promotion of foreign trade are also important in foreign policy. On this subject, you remained general in your speech. While you stressed the general values and the importance of free trade, I still want to ask what are the action plans and priorities of the current government, what are the new activities to take advantage of Estonia's opportunities to support entrepreneurs on export markets and to promote foreign trade. Many countries are still working on this and are contributing to it. We shouldn't be left behind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U17	Yes, one of the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in ensuring security and, let's say, offering consular support to Estonian citizens is, of course, support to Estonian companies who want to go to foreign markets and attract foreign investments to Estonia if you want to. What services do we offer? We offer businesses, now and certainly in the future, and increasingly, a general overview of the business environment in the country of residence, and we protect the legitimate interests of companies when they have encountered problems with the authorities in the country of residence. However, this has also had to be done over the years, and since not all problems have been resolved and new ones have to be added, it can be predicted that this may have to be done even more in the future. We also help search for partners and facilitate contact creation, which consists of all kinds of general requests, obtaining data from the databases of the host country and elsewhere. We also organise business missions, seminars, contact events, reception and targeted marketing seminars and offer all kinds of support services. We also offer help in disseminating information in the country of destination. We have, of course, allowed logistical support and rooms for embassies, such as professional associations or companies for product presentations, etc. We will certainly continue to do so. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not the only structure of public power in Estonia that provides aid to companies. Together with EAS, market research and product marketing is carried out, sales are promoted and credit information is controlled. Companies wishing to move to foreign markets will also receive financial support through EAS. It's actually quite a lot. If I did not dwell on it in sufficient detail, it is mainly because the security situation is quite complex, dramatic and dynamic at the moment, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs has cut the time for the presentation to allow more time for a free debate. So thank you for this very good question. Estonia is represented in 36 countries with its foreign representation. In fact, in every country where we have an embassy, it also deals with economic issues. We have nine real economic diplomats, but the rest of the diplomats share their time and strength between other topics and economic diplomacy. We also have very active high-level political visits with business delegations. In selecting the destinations for these visits, we are primarily based on the interests of Estonian companies. But, of course, entrepreneurship itself is the customer. Over the years, there has been a long debate about the extent to which Estonia, with its External Action Service, should move our companies out of the way to foreign markets, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should be guided by what companies want and not try to carry this rope. It is clear that Estonia is a small country, and our companies, who strive for foreign markets, will certainly look around in the nearest markets first. A similar cultural background and a system of regulations will also make it easier to enter these markets. At the same time, it is clear that in certain sectors and in certain niches there is certainly room for Estonian exporters also in large growing markets that are geographically distant from us. Sometimes these initiatives, when the state has tried to open the door to companies on foreign markets, have perhaps been unsuccessful. We remember that earlier governments tried for years and years to strengthen Central Asia. But if we now look at the figures on how Estonia's entry into these markets has taken place, the expected success is not to be seen. For example, trade with Kazakhstan has decreased from year to year. However, on the basis, for example, of the continued interest of the transit sector in this direction, we are trying to help these companies and are not rushing to close the embassy because of the lack of rapid progress. Another experience is from Shanghai, which is a very important city for economic activity and business attraction, a very important metropolis. However, our companies, which have successfully entered the Chinese market, confirm that state aid is needed primarily in their relations with the political authorities and institutions in Beijing. It is therefore not considered to be a very thoughtful decision of its own to go to Shanghai to enter the Chinese market, because more than maybe the State's help to participate in trade fairs in Shanghai, our companies that are pursuing the Chinese market need state aid precisely in order to open political doors in Beijing. Experiences have come to us over the years, so we'll probably get them in the future. We will certainly adjust them to what we are going to do. If we present a plan to strengthen the Estonian External Action Service to the government already in March, then there will certainly be an important place in foreign economic policy in terms of both geographical orientations and the content of this activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U18	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U19	Good minister! This talk of value-based politics was very sympathetic to my ears. But as a metaphor is suggested, if the ship is at sea, then what direction is the nose of the ship is important only if the ship is moving, but if the ship is stationary, it is relatively irrelevant. But I don't want to say that our foreign policy is standing pretty still right now. The Riigikogu recently passed the Magnitski List Act in Estonia. I have not heard that any of the persons on this list have yet been put on the blacklist, but it is neither directly your business. Vladimir Kara-Murza, a leader of the Russian opposition, has just fallen into a coma. Russia, in its domestic policy, continues to destroy these same values directly physically.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U20	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U21	Has Estonia recently done anything to support the Russian opposition? Is there anything we can do? How can we put this value-based policy into action in such matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U22	Thank you. The opportunities to support civil society on Russian soil, as you well know, are limited. Even the possibilities of supporting innocent activities such as the development of cultural relations with tribal peoples greatly limit Russia's very, very jealous view of how foreign countries communicate and do things in Russia at all, especially how they financially support civil society, whether it is a critical part of civil society or even a politically inactive part of civil society dealing with culture and other so-called softer issues. However, of course, Estonia can and will do everything that depends on us to exert political pressure on Russia, also through a number of organisations, so that Russia behaves in accordance with good international practices as well as its own laws, as there is often no too much respect for them in Russia. As far as human rights and civil liberties are concerned, these screws have been more and more closed year after year. Certainly this is also made possible by the fact that this very fierce expansionist and aggressive foreign policy has driven the support of the Russian authorities, including President Putin's domestic support, to a very high level of patriotic enthusiasm. This will also make it possible to deal more rigorously with civil activists and political opponents who still dare to be critical of the exercise of power. So, without a doubt, this issue is not somehow out of focus alongside the aggression of Russia's foreign policy. However, the real opportunities to alleviate these people's situation on the ground have, unfortunately, become increasingly uncomfortable for Estonia and our partners and allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U23	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U24	Good President! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I am pleased that you also mentioned the importance of foreign trade in your speech. Lately, we have heard on several occasions a proposal, including from the previous Minister of Enterprise, that a new support structure called Team Estonia should be created to support Estonian companies in foreign markets and attract investments to our country. Do you think that such a support structure would be necessary, or would it be sufficient to promote the interests of Estonia's foreign trade if the existing structures were to improve their work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U25	Thank you. I would say that it would certainly not be worth creating new structures on an easy hand until we have looked very closely at what can be done to improve and improve the work of existing structures. We do not have enough human and financial resources to use them to the greatest extent possible. However, if our business community itself feels that the existence of an additional structure would enable businesses to better cope with the activities they consider necessary to enter foreign markets or also to invest in our country, then the government must undoubtedly walk in the same direction as businesses. If there are activities that existing structures, be it the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which deals with foreign economic diplomacy, the respective structures of the EAS or the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, cannot take on its task for any reason, then it is certainly worth considering. As far as the political dimension is concerned, it is clear that there are markets where the 'political heavyweight' helps to open certain doors more easily and perhaps to move some bureaucratic processes forward. In this respect, the involvement of the Prime Minister and his office in such cases is certainly justified. In fact, we have used not only the power and political weight of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but also the Prime Minister's, if necessary, as well as the President's, to raise and keep on the agenda practical problems with business delegations. If our businesses have encountered problems, if they have been unfairly treated in some markets, for example, or are entangled in political swamps or bureaucratic barriers, then we will always raise these issues and express our desire to move forward in solving them, not only through the channels of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also through all kinds of high-level visits and meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U26	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U27	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! On the one hand, the foundations of value policy are sawed by Russian aggression through physical violence, information and plastic bag policy. At the meetings of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, I have seen the enormous prayers and efforts of the Ukrainians to acknowledge the progress of aggression on their territory. In this light, the news button on the Estonian Päevaleht still worries. Please introduce Estonia's specific activities to preserve independent Ukraine. What kind of support measures does Estonia plan to fight with Ukrainians for democracy, law and independence in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U28	Thank you. We do this in absolutely all areas. Speaking about our statement regarding the escalation of events in and around Avdijivka last week, the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs actually made a statement on its Twitter account, where we expressed concerns about military escalation and civilian casualties and made it very clear that the international pressure to keep Russia strong was needed to stop mashing events and to comply with Minsk agreements. That's what we did on January 31st, just in case, I checked this morning at 1:28 p.m. If you want to know the time line, I'll say it was somewhat earlier than the Latvians and Lithuanians made their statement. But we really, as I said to the journalist, do not compete with what time anyone makes their statement or how harsh an adjective someone can put in the statement. That is not our goal. At the last meeting of Foreign Ministers, where one item on the agenda was devoted to analysing Ukraine's reform process and analysing what the European Union can do to help Ukraine with its domestic reforms, I called for the need to be prepared to tighten the sanction regime as Russia moves away from meeting its commitments. Several of my colleagues, including the Foreign Ministers of several major European countries, said that the Minsk agreements must not be forgotten, that sanctions against Russia must not be linked to any other artificial and non-state-related issues, i.e. it must not be turned into any global political commodity. One of my Baltic colleagues said that the European Union needs to speed up its processes and go faster both by ratifying the Association Agreement and by ratifying the liberalisation of the visa regime. Another of my Baltic colleagues stressed the need to maintain a united European front even after the spring and autumn elections in the Netherlands, France and Germany have taken place. We actually approached the same question from somewhat different angles. I did not then, and I did not intend to, start to compete at speed or to brag about the need to tighten sanctions alone, even though my colleagues pointed out other aspects of this important problem. So we act together, we don't have any disagreements, no one runs in front, no one stays behind. All Baltic Foreign Ministers are very strongly in favour of no review of policy and no abolition or relaxation of sanctions until Russia has fulfilled its commitments under the Minsk Accords. That is a perfectly firm position. The review of sanctions is periodic. We know that the next round of 'extension' will come when the elections have taken place in two important European countries. The situation is exceptionally dynamic, the unity that has already been achieved does not stand by itself; it must be constantly created and maintained. We would be naive if we said that there are no opposite vectors, and there are no such moods, to forget about this problem somehow and move on. Such thoughts exist and, unfortunately, exist in more than one European country. We do not know how this dynamic goes on, we do not create illusions for ourselves that maintaining unity is easy, but we deal with it every day. So here Estonia's position is extraordinarily clear and concrete and also very strong. This can certainly be confirmed by all those colleagues who have been present in these debates. At the same time, it would make sense to look at specific agendas in which meetings are specifically planned for the debate on the extension of sanctions, which, however, focus on another issue of just as vital importance to Ukraine, because supporting Ukraine's reforms is also very important in order for this process to be successful. We know that Ukraine, as I said in my presentation, is in an exceptionally difficult socio-economic situation. There are also complex developments in Ukraine's internal policies, as some forces are gaining popularity, whose agenda may be less realistic in the long run and perhaps even more dangerous. It is certainly important that the Ukrainian Government is able to maintain the support of its people for reforms. Recently, for example, Ukraine has undertaken important reforms that have changed gas prices. The gas used by private consumers in Ukraine was known to be very heavily subsidised. At the request of the international community, these subsidies were now reduced, i.e. gas tariffs for private consumers and industrial users were levelled. This is a bold but certainly a step in relation to certain socio-economic and political risks. There are a number of reforms that Estonia has also supported and which have been remarkably successful. For example, an electronic public procurement system has been established in the past in the field of public procurement to combat corruption. This is an extremely significant and important reform. An electronic system for declaring the assets and interests of senior public officials is also being established, which is once again a very important reform and not at all simple. There has also been significant progress in reducing corruption in the police. These are the things we all support. When we are talking about the escalation of events in Avdijivka, it must be said that, apart from so-called political pressure on Russia, it is also necessary to deal with the situation of the people who live there in Avdijivka. The estimates in this city are different because it is a complex area and it is very difficult to obtain accurate data for about 17000 people. But now it's winter and minus degrees. Recent attacks have resulted in many deaths, much more than they had in the whole of the previous month, for example. In addition, a number of vital services have been interrupted. If people find themselves in the cold, without water and without electricity in such a situation, it may have extremely serious consequences, perhaps even more severe than the immediate firefight that has taken place in those days or weeks. Estonia is also very active here, we are providing humanitarian aid and we are calling on other countries to do so. This is the whole virvard of problems where Estonia is active in all areas, both with its word and with its deed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U29	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U30	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! For years, Estonia has stressed value-based foreign policy and remained true to it for a very long time. At the same time, a number of issues arise, especially those concerning our NATO-allied Turkey. In Turkey, there has been a very rapid movement in recent times towards a totalitarian regime: the undermining of democracy and the repression of thousands of people. This should in no way overlap with our value-based foreign policy. At the same time, Estonia has been modestly positive about Turkey's negotiations with the European Union in order to obtain both visa liberalisation and to join the European Union in the long term. How has the official position of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs regarding Turkey changed? Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to develop a more firm position to criticise current developments in Turkey?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U31	There is no doubt that a number of political developments in Turkey concern us. For example, when the freedom of Members and their participation in their work is restricted or dismissed or numerous academic professions, as well as judges and other public officials, we are asked whether these steps are proportionate. It is understandable that when a military coup attempt takes place in a country, the state authorities react forcefully and resolutely. The international community must also respond forcefully, resolutely and unambiguously to this in order to give a clear message that a military coup is not a legitimate way of gaining power and that the international community, including the European Union and NATO, supports the elected authorities. This is the message we gave after the summer coup attempt. If we look at Turkey's internal policy, we will undoubtedly see worrying developments. Turkey's role in international security is quite varied. He has a very important role to play in finding solutions to the problem of the Syrian civil war. Turkey also plays a very constructive and positive role in limiting the migration flows towards Europe. Foreign policy cannot separate different aspects. Of course, if we see developments in Turkey or elsewhere that conflict with our perceptions of personal freedoms, such as free expression, we will react to them primarily in multilateral formats, where our voice is stronger, clearer and has a greater impact. This is the case with Turkey, as it is with a number of other countries that have an important role to play in the security of the world, in the world economy, but which do not actually meet our understanding of the European system of things. We are guided here by the best diplomatic practices and the interests of the Estonian state, but also, of course, by our value-based policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U32	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A number of leaders in the Member States of the European Union have, as we know, had a very critical view of the new President of the United States, Donald Trump. However, we have heard and read that Donald Trump has expressed a certain willingness to engage in allied relations, partnership or cooperation with Russia, particularly in the fight against terrorism. In this context, the possibility of the United States ending sanctions against Russia has been mentioned. If it should happen now that the European Union takes one political line and our very important ally America's second political line, will our Ministry of Foreign Affairs figure out the options so that we do not fall between the two chairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U34	Thank you. Yes, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also the government in general are working on all possible scenarios, we are developing plans and we have actually been doing this constantly. We are responding to a changing external environment, while at the same time changing our foreign policy objectives. Our basic objectives and trends remain unchanged. Specific policies will undoubtedly also need to be adjusted in the light of changes in the external environment where necessary. As far as the statements made by the new US administration are concerned, this administration has been in office for a few weeks; in many important areas of its policy, it is certainly still in the process of being developed. We know that several previous US administrations have also made attempts to review and improve their relationship with Russia. However, better relations between the United States and Russia, as well as between the European Union and Russia, have never been left behind the unwillingness of the United States or Europe, but have always become entangled in Russia's failure or unwillingness to act in accordance with international standards and rules and international law. So as long as Russia does not return to internationally considered legitimate behaviour, I dare to predict that any attempts to significantly improve relations between the United States and Russia or between the European Union and Russia will not be pursued. In all our contacts with both the Americans and our European partners, we will certainly remind our partners and allies that the pressure on Russia stems specifically from Russia's aggression against Ukraine, the annexation of Crimea and Russia's action as a framework country in this Eastern Ukraine operation, where the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been broken and continues to be broken. We must make sure that all our allies remember this. In a very large number of heads in the United States, this understanding is quite clear. There are certainly a lot of new people in the new administration, but there are also a number of people who have previous experience and a very deep expertise on security in Eastern Europe and specifically in Ukraine. Both chambers of Congress have considerable support for America's strong, strong and resolute position. In both chambers, the majority is in the hands of the Republican Party; nevertheless, the majority of both chambers understand very clearly what is at stake and are ready to work to ensure that the international community is united and that its position is resolute and strong. Actually, we've heard some signals about that. For example, I would like to mention the first speech by the new US UN Ambassador, Nikki Haley, at the UN table, where he, as the veto member of the Security Council, said that the position vis-à-vis Russia depends on Russia's compliance with its obligations. He stressed the need to be strong, concrete and resolute in relations with Russia. I would not like to go along with these speculations now that there is some kind of division and division and that Estonia has to choose between the United States and the European Union. Our first objective, which we are working to achieve, is to ensure that this gap does not arise, to have a unified Euro-Atlantic position on this issue, and to create this unity around the realisation that Russia has not fulfilled its obligations and, as long as it has not done so, there must be no relaxation of sanctions. Looking specifically at sanctions, it can be said that yes, sanctions have certainly had a significant impact on Russia's behaviour. The critics say that it has not been able to force Russia to change its policy specifically in Eastern Ukraine and Crimea and have not been able to restore Ukraine's territorial integrity and control over its entire territory. On the other hand, sanctions have managed to prevent Russia from going much further, perhaps elsewhere than in Ukraine alone. Certainly, certain sanctions, especially in the financial sector, but also those concerning technology and exports to Russia, have had a'real, tangible effect'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U35	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! In your interview today, you have said that we do not have to compete with our neighbors who will first send out a statement or who will use stronger adjectives there. In my dealings with my fellow citizens, I have the feeling that this attitude is entirely wrong and rather surprising when heard from a former sportsman. If the Prime Minister has been relatively soft in this Parliament and that is understandable in some respects, given that his party has an agreement with the United Russia, you could and could be reactive and free in your statements. Are you prepared to change your attitude in subsequent statements in order to give our fellow citizens a sense of security and to send them a message based on the incredibleness of what has happened in Ukraine in the 21st century?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U37	Thank you. To the fact that we don't have a so-called competition here, whose application comes first to the press in my country, I'm sure I'll stay. Our statements are strong, our position is unchanged, clear and resolute. However, we need to adapt a little to the extent that foreign policy has been transformed into an internal policy in Estonia in recent months. This is neither a good nor a pleasant trend, but just as, for example, mainstream politics in the world is trying to adapt to social media and the post-truth era, so, when we do our foreign policy, we must adapt to the way in which, by pretending to do foreign policy, our voters are trying to like them before the elections. This competition may slightly dilute the weight of our word, I'm afraid, but if it's a time requirement, we'll definitely adapt to it. However, we are not going to compete with our partners on who comes forward in the launch of one or the other application. We are, however, prudent, explicit and weighty in our foreign policy. Your wish to demonstrate the Russian-minded policy of the Estonian government that took office in November is undoubtedly based on internal political interests and considerations. This is not in line with Estonia's foreign policy interests. The government has no choice but to resolutely reject the insinuations, lies and half-truths that are published for internal policy reasons about our foreign policy trends and positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U38	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In the world, especially in the western part of it, there has often been a saying recently that the time for political correctness is over. Would you be so kind as to comment on this view? What do you think that means? The end of the political era of regularity does that mean anything to the European Union's foreign policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U40	Thank you. I, too, have heard the idea that the era of political correctness is over. It is not political correctness, which has recently been industriously ridiculed, that has arisen without reason or in an empty place. Political correctness, however, has, to a very large extent, been a protective response from a certain instinct of self-preservation, even to the world wars of the last century. I think that political correctness is sometimes ridiculed without realising what is actually being criticised. What has recently taken place on one side of the Atlantic and on the other side, for example, against mainstream media, is actually attacking the press, which is based on facts and controls its sources. This is the peculiarity of the post-truth era, that there are enormous media channels, but the human perception field has not expanded over the centuries, and the ability to consume and critically analyse this information is becoming increasingly limited, as more information is needed all the time. Very strong pressure, among other things, is on certain political trends, so that all these facts, alternative facts, truth, lies and half-truths should be treated as equivalent, each one of them should choose their own. The understanding is that the fact-based approach is too politically correct, and we should also take greater respect for the intruding, I do not think we should go along, and I would not want to go along with it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U41	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you for your presentation and your answers. In your responses and your presentation, there were a number of priorities that have been recognised and embraced in the European Union and also in our neighbouring countries. Indeed, it is perfectly normal that foreign policy cooperates with countries close to us. But does Estonia, which is located in such an interesting geographical place, also have its own foreign policy priority, where Estonia could be the first, not only to go along, to be solidarity and approve, but where Estonia could clearly be together with Latvia and Lithuania, or also alone as a developer of relations for the whole of Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U43	Thank you. In the area of security policy, this is certainly about bringing Europe to our eastern partners, bringing the Eastern partners closer to Europe. That's our interest. Estonia has, how I say, been a very strong advocate of the enlargement of the European Union in its valuable beliefs, so that the idea of Europe who and free really will one day become a reality. As far as our own fate mates are concerned, those countries that have also had to groan under Soviet rule, we have a certain sense of responsibility and responsibility towards them. This is certainly one of those areas where we are very clearly taking the lead, and we will remain that way. If you are looking for something that is outside a hard security policy, it is certainly the free movement of information, which I spoke about briefly, that there should be a free movement of information among the fundamental freedoms that we have benefited very much as a country. This is an extremely complex issue, which is also viewed in many parts of the developed world with great distrust. There are practical concerns, not just irrational fears relating, for example, to data protection and the fact that there are no physical boundaries in cyberspace, and therefore there is no possibility of monitoring and controlling these borders. Estonia has made the development of the digital single market a priority for its Presidency, which has been on the agenda of the European Union for a few good years, but we are far from there. At the same time, e-governance is also important to us, where our expertise and assistance to our partners goes far beyond Europe's geographical borders. We have taken our e-governance solutions as far as Palestine or even the southern continent of Namibia, and we are ready to do so in the future. It is also one of our 'horizontal priorities' under the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In this context, too, we not only want to seek and find solutions within Europe, but we also want to spread them outside Europe. These are certainly issues that must be kept on the table at the European Union summits, in all important fora, such as the European Union-Africa Summit. So it may be outside the hard field of security that we are taking the lead, not just to show our brand, which is strong in this area, but because we believe in the importance of the development of a digital society. It can increase the legitimacy of state power so that it becomes more effective, transparent and less corrupt everywhere. In this way, political alienation can also be reduced, which is one of the foundations of all the troubles that plague us now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U44	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U45	Good manager! Good Minister, first of all, thank you for your excellent, personal and good speech, and especially for quoting Shakespeare at the end! I'm glad to hear we're ready for the storms to come. But now a specific question. Henry Kissinger has advised Donald Trump to recognise Crimea as part of Russia. If President Trump accepts this advice, what will you do as Foreign Minister? Are you rushing into battle for truth and justice or...?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U46	Thank you. The question sentence doesn't usually end with the word 'or', but I knew what you meant. Estonia is guided both by its values and by international law. International law gives us very clear guidance that changing borders by military force is not acceptable. Estonia was also the leader of the European Foreign Affairs Council in January, for example, at a meeting of foreign ministers in Brussels, where the issue of Ukraine was not specifically on the agenda. However, I myself raised this issue and stressed the need for the European Union to reiterate its principles and principled non-recognition policy in the political statement in the run-up to the third anniversary of the illegal annexation of Crimea, as well as to focus on how this non-recognition policy can actually be translated into a situation where Russia militarised on the one hand Crimea and, on the other hand, severely limits freedoms and rights there. This principle is certainly the basis for Estonia, regardless of what other countries in the world are doing. But I would not like to leave your hypothetical theme setting sound as if the United States would recognise Crimea as part of Russia. I don't see that development on the horizon, probably unlike you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U47	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U48	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, The European Union has faced a number of crises in recent years and they have also taken place at once, with countries having a very different understanding of many of the solutions. This desire to move in different directions and at different speeds has led to the opinion that perhaps we need a 'two-speed Europe' to prevent stagnation. Whoever wants it will evolve, but if no one wants it, it's his choice. More and more, however, it seems that such a two-speed Europe is perhaps a reality, because one-speed and, in fact, unity is beginning to become scarce. Such speeches have become ever louder. Angela Merkel also referred to this last week. I think it's a dangerous development. How do you rate it, is it dangerous? What can be done to mitigate this threat, especially in view of Estonia's soon-to-be Presidency of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U49	Thank you. It is certainly important to us that the European Union remains united in its positions on issues of such principled security as Russia's aggression against Ukraine or annexation of Crimea. There are certainly more of these issues. At the same time, the European Union is a very complex organism. On the one hand, we want to see Europe speak with one voice and think with one voice, but on the other, we want to see Europe as a community of sovereign nation states, not as a form of unitarian state. These are the desires that have been somewhat programmed into such a semiotic conflict. But I am quite convinced that countries will come to the table in the future, whether in the form of the Council of the European Union or in any other format, with different starting positions. In some cases, we will be able to bring these positions closer together, so there will be some kind of compromise on which a common European position can be formed. In other cases, differences of opinion may be so great that there will be no consensus. In some areas, there are indeed different speeds within the European Union. There are, for example, European monetary union, which does not include all the Member States of the European Union, and there are still forms of cooperation in which some countries have used opt-out or decided to stay out of it. This, too, will certainly remain a fact in certain areas in the future. We must, of course, be able to prioritise our own interests and distinguish vital interests from those that are said to be nice to have in English, and we must work to ensure that Europe is as united as possible in areas of vital interest to us. For it is clear that when we are talking about Russia's expansionist and aggressive foreign policy, for example, the Kremlin has, in some ways, described this foreign policy interest so far as a rather zero sum game, where everything that is good for the Western world is by definition not good for Russia, and vice versa, and where it has always been very clear that Russia prefers bilateral agreements with large and important countries, which then can be planted in its head for smaller and less important countries. This is now one of the fundamental principles of international operation that is vital to us: we want to maintain a rule-based and multilateral world order and security organisation; we are working for it. Clearly, it is not always easy. So far, we have managed and actually managed to move forward through these decades, when we have had this restored independence in the Republic of Estonia. True, I do not think that there has been such a difficult time from the point of view of European integration as it is now. Indeed, it is already purely mentally difficult that we have only expanded all the time, we have searched for new areas of integration and deepened existing ones, but now a country in the European Union has announced that it wants to leave the Union, and in a number of European Member States, the political forces and political parties are on the rise, who would also like to either loosen integration in any way or send the European Union into the waste bin of its real history. This is not the situation we have been in over the years. This certainly requires the consolidation of the forces who understand what is at stake. It may also require them to review some of their behaviour, their messages and their public communication strategy in order to explain all that is at stake to people who sometimes, in elections or even in referendums, express some abstract disappointment, frustration, dissatisfaction with the established situation, but more often, I think, the misunderstanding of why these changes are so rapid and comprehensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U50	Hannes Hanso.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U51	Good vice chairman! Good Minister, thank you for your contribution so far and for your good answers. Clearly before Estonia, and I think that there is quite a lot of foreign policy ignorance and unpredictableness in the face of Europe and the world as well, compared to earlier times. We've seen how many of these things that we thought they weren't gonna happen are starting to happen. This trend, at least for some time, seems to continue. As a country, we also have quite large and important tasks. We have already talked about the Presidency of the European Union here, but in fact we have another major task ahead of us in the coming years, a desire to become a rotating member of the UN Security Council for the years 2020 and 2021. I think that Estonia really needs such a global reach and sense to position itself properly. What is your role as minister in this work, and how do you appreciate the importance of this activity for Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U52	The decision to aspire to the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member for 2020 and 2021 was taken more than ten years ago. That means it's been in our plans for a very long time. This is not something that would have been decided and intended to form the current government or the previous or previous government. It is clear that since the election of the UN Security Council will actually only take place in the summer of 2019, the phase of the active campaign has only just begun and will become more intensive as the date comes closer when the choice is made. I, too, am convinced that this is actually important to us for a number of reasons. When the Ukrainian crisis exploded, Lithuania was a non-permanent member of the Security Council's desk, who played a significant role in keeping this issue a priority in the discussions of the Security Council. I'm sure we can conjure more difficult situations. Here, one question was asked about the laxative between the two chairs. We certainly know how to find situations in the 2000s where our very close allies, the permanent members of the Security Council, were very divided on important international policy issues, such as the launch of an anti-Iraq operation. You have to be diplomatically professional in order to cope successfully with these situations when you are at the table of this weighty decision-making body. On the other hand, I think this is an exceptionally good opportunity to broaden our foreign policy perspective. I dare say, on the basis of my experience, that if we can take the floor competently in the European Union and force our allies and partners to listen to issues such as the African continent or the Middle East, which are also potable, very hot points of conflict, then our credibility and weight will also increase in discussions on security issues of vital importance to us, such as Russia or Ukraine. So the fact that we are speaking along and even talking about other issues, including our allies, partners and world politics, which are important to the security of the world, does not distract attention from our core issues, but, on the contrary, increases our weight in dealing with these issues. In this sense, too, it is extremely important that this security council campaign forces us to look at the world more widely, forces us to be aware of their expectations and concerns, such as those of the 54 Member States of the African Union, which is a very important block. If one day goes to be elected, it is important to show that we understand their concerns and are able to speak with them and can explain our positions to them on a number of issues which may be somewhat different from the traditional positions of African countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U53	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U54	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for an interesting presentation. As you mentioned, the last year has changed the position of forces in the world and it can be seen that this change is getting worse. The new US administration focuses primarily on its own economy and therefore their main problem is relations with China, not with Russia. Our neighbour, as has been pointed out by Economist and Politico, has recently become one of the world's largest cereals exporters despite sanctions, and pork is also exported there rather than imported. In Western Europe, more and more countries point to the fact that economic sanctions have never been very effective in achieving political objectives. Let's think about Cuba! Estonia should start living in the world that is, cannot live in the world that we imagine and want it to exist. Wouldn't it be the right time for us to join the European countries that are in favour of pragmatic relations with Russia and to become a mediator, a bridge between Russia and Western Europe and give up being a sanitary order?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U55	Thank you. Our understanding of the world in which we live is likely quite different. When we talk about which positions of the Member States of the European Union we should join, I would point out that sanctions will be imposed in Europe on the basis of consensus. So far, there has been a consensus in the European Union that sanctions are justified, necessary and must be linked to the full implementation of the Minsk Agreements. So our position is united with that of the other 27 Member States. What are the changes that are taking place in world politics, and what is Russia's growing or shrinking role? It is clear that Russia has tried to return to the tables of international communication in various ways since it was subjected to sanctions due to aggression against Ukraine. Several of them have been exceptionally destructive, such as the military intervention in the Syrian civil war has resulted in many victims. It seems that the pattern is that Russia is trying to make itself an important, large and inevitable part of as many problems and crises as possible, but it is not part of their constructive solution. Russia is undoubtedly a militaryly important and capable player in the world, not least because it has much more focused its economic resources on maintaining and creating military power than on increasing the well-being of its own people. The export of the cereals or pigmeat you mentioned cannot mask the fact that Russia is in an economically extremely difficult situation, largely because oil prices have been rather low for a long time. As an exporter of mineral resources in Russia, there has been a fairly monofunctional economy and it has depended very much on oil prices in its livelihood. But it is also certainly important here that structural reforms have not been carried out, because an unreasonable majority of the state's resources have been spent on increasing international prestige and credibility by building up military capabilities, and partly because of the sanctions imposed against Russia due to the aggression against Ukraine. I think it would be important for Russia to use its considerable natural resources, human resources and other available resources to diversify its economy, improve the well-being of its people and achieve political legitimacy of power, not through a hegemony effort in international politics, but rather by the fact that people still feel that political power is working for their well-being and coping. Unfortunately, the signs of this are very difficult to find today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U56	Jürgen Ligi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U57	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! You've alluded to rumors many times and promised that the government would disprove all kinds of lies and rumors. In my question, I did not rely on any other stories than those that I have been told in the right second order, Latvia and Lithuania, Estonia should be the last to be in the trades and by officials, top jobs and top officials. I do not want you to read the text of this resolution again. I've got it. But the only way to disprove the Russian spirit of the government, as you put it, and the amendment of the text is to present the original text that arrived in Estonia, and the amendments that the government made, and to show which of these proposals reached the text. This is essentially the content of this debate. What you have said about this debate now fully confirms what I have heard from my sources, and that is outrageous. Are you willing to submit these requested papers so that we can compare the texts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U58	Thank you. When the Prime Minister's office is ready for this, I don't see any obstacles. However, I will say that all these multilateral declarations and statements will be drafted in the long joint work of the authorities and their wording will be polished and shaped over a long period of time. I do not think it would be very good practice if all of this were to take place in public, because it would certainly be a precedent for the future as well. I fear that then we will indeed go to the race for someone who can play his game more effectively in front of his own country audience. What I wanted to draw attention to was that the wording of the foreign policy part of this statement, i.e. firm support for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, unambiguous condemnation of Russia's failure to fulfil its obligations and actually plays a non-constructive and destructive role in this conflict, is exceptionally strong, according to each standard exceptionally strong. As regards Syria, the statement, yes, expresses the condemnation of Assad and his supporters. Could there have been Russia and Iran? Yes, I think they could have been mentioned separately, but they are certainly included in the phrase 'Assad regime and its supporters'. I want to confirm that these positions are clear, strong and unambiguous. If you are suggesting that the positions on aggression against Ukraine, for example, or the condemnation of the annexation of Crimea, were stronger in some earlier draft of the text, then I can completely unequivocally disprove it. No, it wasn't. Rather, if we add a return to the principles of international law to the need to comply with the Minsk Agreements, this is an even stronger wording, as Russian violations of the principles of international law are, unfortunately, not limited to activities in Eastern Ukraine and illegal annexation of Crimea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U59	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U60	Thank you, Vice President. Good Minister, thank you very much for your constructive and thorough presentation. On 24 February of the coming year, we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. A hundred years ago, our Republic's birth document Manifest was read to all rahwaste of Estonia. On August 20, last year, we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the grand finale of our re-independence efforts, the restoration of Estonia's independence. Today, Europe still has a number of regions that are fighting and seeking independence. What is and should be Estonia's foreign policy towards the aspirations of regions such as Catalonia in Spain, Scotland in the United Kingdom and others?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U61	Thank you. We are part of the European Union, one of the Member States of the European Union. We respect and respect all our partners in the European Union. We are a member of NATO, we take our allied responsibilities very seriously in NATO, and we are grateful for the contribution our allies make to our security. We are also convinced that all our partners are democratic countries that can solve all their internal problems within their own constitutional framework. So this is my answer to you as regards the desires and aspirations that the Catalans in Spain or the Scots in Britain may have. These are democratic countries that can successfully solve these problems within their own constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U62	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U63	Good President! Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I'll come back again to foreign trade. Do you think that the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu could also be applied in front of the carriage to promote Estonia's foreign trade interests? The Minister of Enterprise and the Minister of Foreign Affairs can't get anywhere, while the members of the Riigikogu have enough to hold good, high-level meetings? Do you think that members of the Riigikogu could also take company delegations to foreign markets?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U64	This is a somewhat resource issue, isn't it? The members of the Riigikogu, especially those who have previously performed the functions of executive power, certainly have enough, as you said, to open some doors. Not necessarily such doors as maybe the President or the Prime Minister can open, but they can undoubtedly help, and in that case this opportunity should be used. As you well know, and as we have spoken before in this Chamber and working together in Riigikogu committees, it is often entangled behind the lack of resources, especially the money that the Riigikogu has for its external communication. In the parliamentary state of the Riigikogu, however, the most important instrument of political power should be the framework itself of how much it is willing to take this resource from the state budget in order to do these things well and correctly. At the same time, we also need to look at the 'internal reserves', because it is clear that the irons in the national wallet are not rubber. After all, it is the Riigikogu who adopts the budget and creates these opportunities and frameworks for itself. The government does not want to put a hand in front of it here, but the government cannot oblige the Riigikogu to do anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U65	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I think your answers are sincere, but I am saddened by your sense and understanding. You refer to it as if political parties in Estonia were beginning to prioritise using foreign policy to achieve their goals. But is it not rather a question of the fact that, if the previous governments and previous ministers have been more reactive and faster, more spokespersons, the signs that are now coming from the government are precisely the reason for the perception that our colleagues feel abroad? We don't have much work to do here, because you're doing the job yourself. We understand, on the one hand, your uncomfortable situation because of your coalition partner's Central Party. You are certainly in a worse position on foreign policy matters than your good party partner, Hanso. Do you sense that this opposite vector you described earlier might become stronger because of this action?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U67	No. I'm glad you're convinced of my sincerity. I would very much like to be just as convinced of your sincerity. If I am present at a bilateral meeting with my colleague to talk about transatlantic relations, to plan common positions and activities, and to talk about Ukraine and Russian policy, and I will be brought to see a Member of Parliament tweeting on Twitter, where he claims that while the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not know where he is working on shaping Estonia's foreign policy positions, my good co-workers would like to laugh from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But I say it's actually a place to cry. I remember that when your colleague Ligi took office in his time as Minister of Defence, Estonia's foreign policy was certainly much more consensual than it is now. I don't want to stop on that sad note, but I'm afraid it was. When he had some disagreements with the higher command of the Defence Forces as Minister of Defence, for example, I, despite being a opposition politician at the time, because I thought he was right, supported him in this dispute. At present, I do not see or perceive such an attitude from the opposition to a large extent. Rather, the opposition seeks confirmation of its claim, but since it does not find it in hard facts, it begins to look for it somewhere in clues, insinuations, some senses. He is looking for confirmation that the foreign and security policy line of the new government is somewhat softer or more uncertain. There's no proof of that in real life. Estonia's foreign policy positions and the way in which they are expressed, their nature and the way in which they are spoken are at least as strong as they were in the case of the previous, previous and previous governments. You are also referring all the time to the Centre Party, for example, at the recent meeting of Heads of State or Government in Malta, which raised the issue of Ukraine. He also brought it up on his own initiative in several interviews, including interviews with American journalism publications. This is a very clear initiative position on these matters that are important to us from a security point of view. I am sure that, at our heart, we want to pursue the same policy towards Ukraine, the same policy towards Russia, but if we try to make our own country's electorate look better, to attribute some kind of secret agenda, either the opposition to the coalition or the coalition to the opposition, then we will do long-term damage to all of us and to Estonia's foreign policy interests. I'm afraid that's the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U68	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U69	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! In your speech, you briefly mentioned the fundamental principles of the European Union. You did not consider it necessary or saw any reason to change them, which is perfectly understandable and understandable. But we have good partners and allies in Europe who do not share this view. I am thinking in particular of Poland, which has entered into a very serious conflict with the European Commission, by putting into practice its understanding of Poland's interests and national strategy. Unfortunately, we have been very quiet and modest when it comes to Poland's right to determine its own domestic issues. Do you not see the need to speak more strongly in the context of Poland and to show greater support for their current policies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U70	Thank you. As far as foreign and security policy issues are concerned, Poland is certainly a very critical ally for Estonia and will remain so. The Poles understand security problems exactly as we do. Poland is a significantly larger country than we are and it is the most militaryly capable country in our region. That's definitely not gonna change. In Poland, too, political power has changed periodically in elections. It is clear that today's Polish Government's perceptions of exactly what Poland's perceptions of the development of the European Union and the exercise of the interests of the Polish State in the European Union have changed since the time of the previous government. However, the way Poland sees the future of the European Union does not address Estonia as a foreign policy issue. We do not think that we should start giving Poland instructions, admonishing him or texting him through public channels. We also need to understand the extent to which the European Union is already our internal policy and the extent to which policies in the European Union are part of our foreign and security policy. I see Poland as our important partner in the European Union and as an important ally in NATO. As I answered one previous question about Spain and Great Britain, so I say in the case of Poland that all the problems that lie ahead of him can be resolved as a democratic state within the framework of his constitution. This is my faith and conviction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U71	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, For a few decades, the so-called old countries of Western Europe lived in an illusion of security and a desire to think that Russia would become a democratic state. Now, hopefully, everyone's eyes have gone open, but unfortunately, in this few decades, the European countries have almost disarmed themselves and changed their independent defence capabilities to a rather non-existent extent. Now perhaps too much is expected of the United States that America will come and help. What are our foreign policy tools for explaining to Western European partners that there can be not only a consumer of security, the United States, but also a contribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U73	Above all, this is our own positive example. When you talk about dangers but are not prepared to use your own money and human resources to prepare for them, it is difficult to take you seriously. Since we feel that threats in today's world are real, we are doing quite a lot to be prepared to face and cope with these dangers on our own. This is certainly important and will give us credibility at, for example, the NATO table, also at the table of the European Union, when we say clearly there that we expect greater contributions from our allies and partners. A number of countries have managed to reverse the trend in the reduction in defence spending. Our closest neighbours have either already done so, for example Poland is at 2%, or clearly it is on its way towards 2%, such as Latvia and Lithuania, which have set specific paths for themselves. Speaking of Europe's majors, France has clearly formulated the objective of achieving 2% of GDP with its defence expenditure. Yes, the peace dividend was carefully taken out in the 1990's, and there was no longer a need for such a high level of defence expenditure. If you have already put this money somewhere else, it will be very painful to turn this cart internally, especially if you live in a country where the foreign security threat may not be as acute every day as we do. It is up to us to show convincingly that security is indivisible and that if one or the other European democratic state is in trouble, a crisis or aggression, it will have an immediate and very devastating impact on the security and well-being of the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U74	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U75	Good manager! Good minister! While you are on the floor, the director of the Central Intelligence Agency has arrived in Ankara, a country that was only said to be a totalitarian Islamic dictatorship in the summer. But I'm gonna ask you a lot more about the closer things. The sanctions imposed against Russia have an effect, that has been said, but I have heard that Russian farmers are very happy with these sanctions and are making strong lobby to keep them. For Estonian farmers, the eastern market has always been very important. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have any information that the Russian farmers' lobby supports the continuation of sanctions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U76	No, I have no record of Russian farmers lobbying in European capitals to continue sanctions. Our goal is certainly not that Russian farmers should fail, nor is it our aim to support them in any way with sanctions. In our sanctions policy, we are based on Estonia's security policy interests, according to which the pressure on Russia must continue until it has repaired and compensated the damage suffered by Ukraine's aggression and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine has been restored.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U77	Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for answering the questions. As you know, you can still speak at the end of the negotiating round if you wish. Unfortunately, the table of speeches is now undergoing a readjustment, a restart. The two colleagues who have not asked the question can certainly ask the next waitress, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U78	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, During the last year, journalists of international publications have asked me repeatedly whether Estonia is afraid of its future, whether our people are afraid of war and whether we believe in the help of our allies. The answer here is simple: who is afraid, suffers and eventually loses. Pope John Paul II said at the historic mass held in Warsaw in June 1979: "Do not be afraid! " Hundreds of thousands of Poles then carried this message to their homes. It was the beginning of a wave of release that shattered the Berlin Wall and gave a new hope to the yoked nations. Estonia too. We got rid of it. To never fear and lose your freedom again. Narva's Birmingham is Seattle's Napoli's Varna's Gaziantep. If there's one thing that's gonna happen, he's gonna hit everybody. That is how we have agreed in NATO. The West's most successful Defence Union NATO managed to break the Soviet Union's world-conquering plans a quarter of a century ago and to ensure the survival of the free states. Why should it be different today? Freedom is a value that we in Estonia know better than many who speak about freedom. We know how easy it is to lose freedom and how high the cost of this loss is. This is why we are not intimidated by these questions about Estonia's future. We are confident that we will never give up our freedom again. Ladies and gentlemen, The world is not what it was a year ago. And in a year, he won't be what he is today. Breakings are obvious, unfortunately also in our customary system of things. The question is whether the unity and unity of the Western world, both important to us, are suffering increasing internal and external stress. Historian Robert Kagan recently wrote that if the past is any road sign, the next four years will be a critical breakpoint. In Kagan's view, the future of the liberal world order after World War II depends on whether or not the new administration of the United States has the will and the ability to be a leader in the free world. In fact, Kagan's analysis should be expanded and also take into account the developments taking place on the European wing of the Western world. The European Union's sustainability test, which started in Brexit, will be severely tested in the forthcoming elections in the Netherlands, France, Germany, the Czech Republic and possibly Italy. For the first time in history, the people are in the hands of a power that has severely tested the logic and resilience of democratic countries. I am thinking here, in particular, of increasing people's dissatisfaction because of the slowdown in welfare growth, the deepening of inequalities and the failure of leaders to solve problems such as the migration crisis. All of this results in a loss of confidence in those in power and, more dangerously, in democratic institutions. Never before have the policies of democratic countries, in its broadest sense, been drawn so scattered and out of the traditional comfort zone. Although many decisions still fall behind the scenes, people in particular on social media have an extraordinary opportunity to quickly and directly oppose the foolishness of rulers or the disregard of questions that are considered important. Of course, it has also injected zeal into those who feel that there are simple solutions to the problems by prohibiting or restricting them. The impact of social media has already been felt by several countries when making their internal choices. The events of the Arab Spring would not have taken such a scale in 2011 without social media. The success of Brexit's supporters and Donald Trump is also largely explained by the scale and impact of social media, which today no one can explain to the end. At the same time, social media have created an excellent opportunity to intervene in mass consciousness for those who feel that there are no boundaries between truth and lie, and the narrative that affects our everyday life does not need to be based on facts. Little wonder, then, that the most popular term in recent times has become the 'post - true world'. If the truth is simply twistable, democratic societies unfortunately seem to tolerate it more and more effectively, how will we be able to protect these foundations in the future, which have kept the Western world united and protected for the last decades? Nationalist and protectionist tendencies in response to globalisation can provide temporary relief and win opportunities for politicians in elections, but do not correspond to the real interests of Western countries and do not allow for peace and stability through a liberal world order. It would be disastrous for the Western world, which values the individual's freedom, to withdraw from itself and return to the politics of the balance and spheres of influence of the forces of the 19th century. As a small country on the free world border, Estonia would find itself in a very difficult situation in the event of such developments. That is why our foreign policy has been and still has been the central axis of close cooperation between countries that appreciate similar values and freedoms and an ally relationship that discourages threats. President Lennart Meri has said that international law is a nuclear bomb in a small country. Of course, it contains a strong dose of idealism, but a world order based on international law and agreements is the cornerstone of a value-based foreign policy in our national interests. We know from history that nothing is permanent, and apparently even the strongest alliances can fall apart, especially when solidarity and willingness to protect one another from common threats are lost. The European Union and NATO have not only been the guarantors of a secure and evolving living environment for Estonia, but for the Western world as a whole. Unfortunately, in recent times, however, it is not uncommon to have thought developments that seriously raise the question of the sustainability of one organisation or another. The European Union is going to have a particularly difficult year, as for the first time in the big elections there is a chance that the idea of a common Europe will turn out to be fragile. Estonia has the will of fate in the second half of the year to play a leading role as President of the European Union in the role of integrating differences in a responsible role. In the foreign and security policy dimension of the Presidency, it is in Estonia's interest to address all developments threatening our Community, both in the East and in the South. The reaction of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the military escalation in Ukraine, which began on 29 January, was somewhat slow and came only after the Committee on Foreign Affairs drew attention to the issue on Friday, 3 February. I would like to stress that the Presidency of the European Union should not be an argument for allowing slacks in shaping our foreign policy positions. Synergies between the Western world, including relations between the US and the European Union, must be considered equally important. It is obvious that solutions to many problems, from the aggressive behaviour of Russia to the fight against international terrorism, lie in the ability of the Western countries to agree on a common policy. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the above, this year the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs has set the objective of its work to shape common foreign policy positions between political parties and to contribute fully to these steps in Estonia's foreign policy, which would strengthen the tending unity among our friends in the Western world and at the same time strengthen Estonia's position in international competition between countries. The priorities for the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs are therefore Estonia's security and foreign trade. On the first issue, the Commission will regularly monitor developments in both regional and global security. To this end, the Commission receives regular intelligence briefings and responds to relevant issues by conducting hearings. During this spring session, we will take a separate look at strategic communication on the country's foreign and security policy through a longer series of hearings. This is a very important area, but it has lived here for years in a world of wishful thinking and less real action. The second priority, foreign trade policy, has been the focus of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for years. It is recalled that already in 2012, the Commission prepared a report on the Asia Strategy, one of its objectives was to promote Estonian exports towards one of the major growth engines of the global economy. This year, we will take the whole issue up again, focusing on the government's activities in promoting foreign trade and raising Estonia's profile, as well as on the expectations of entrepreneurs that export capacity will increase especially in areas where access to the market also requires state support. The first hearing on foreign trade was held on Monday this week, when the main topic was our business sector prospects in the Gulf region. Among other things, the government will soon have to decide whether or not to participate in the 2020 World Exhibition in Dubai. The decision must be taken in the light of the experience gained at world exhibitions, the novelty of the region, the interest of entrepreneurs and also the longer-term interest of Estonia not only in the United Arab Emirates but in all Gulf States. Hopefully, in the near future, an updated version of the foundations of Estonia's foreign and security policy will arrive at our committee, with which the previous coalition began its work. It is good practice that we work in Parliament on this in cooperation with the National Defence Committee. In the coming weeks, the Committee on Foreign Affairs expects the Foreign Minister to take stock of our plan to strengthen our External Action Service. This is particularly important at a time when the work of our diplomats has become literally the front line for the protection of Estonia's welfare and security. Strengthening the External Action Service requires a thorough revision of the External Action Service Act, which should aim at creating new dynamics and openness. Traditionally, foreign relations with colleagues from other parliaments are also at the heart of the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The first foreign visit this year was made last week by a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs to the Republic of Turkey in order to better understand the internal developments of the NATO ally of such importance to us, to promote bilateral relations and to experience the real scale of the refugee crisis from the Syrian war. In the coming year, we are planning a number of further foreign visits and are ready to host our colleagues, including traditionally a delegation from the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Finnish Parliament. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has close cooperation with both the external delegations of the Riigikogu and the parliamentary groups. In January, all the external delegations gave the Commission an overview of their activities, but yesterday we re-launched regular meetings of the group presidents, which will help better coordinate 56 Community works. Since the beginning of the year, our delegation to the Baltic Assembly, whose transport has three countries' cooperation, has a particularly responsible role to play. Common interests in both the economy and security have made Baltic cooperation more important once again, and I hope that the activities of our parliamentarians here will contribute to strengthening a critically important common sense. However, there is also attention to other delegations. The Estonian delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly will host the political committee of the Assembly next month. Ladies and gentlemen, This year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with the National Defence Committee, faces a responsible task of organising a conference on foreign and security policy for the European Union's national parliaments and the European Parliament's delegations during the Presidency at the beginning of September. We have already begun to prepare ourselves in substance. Our aim is to give this forum fresh breathing, focusing in particular on thematic discussions on the most topical issues. There is no doubt that in seven months, the world will have a picture as passionate or as passionate as today, so there will be no shortage of subjects. In order to better organise the conference, we are working with the Troika partners Malta and Bulgaria, other Member States and the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. Members of the European Parliament have a particularly important role to play in view of the future of the European Union, because it is their immediate work with the voters that must ensure the sustainability of a common European idea. I am more than sure that Estonia as a whole and the Riigikogu, among other things, will succeed in organising the events of the Presidency of the European Union and in carrying out the entire Community in difficult times. To this end, I wish the government, members of the Riigikogu and our good assistants strength and zeal in this house. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U79	There are questions for the honourable waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! One concept that I think has been repeating for ten years and perhaps even longer in all foreign policy debates is a value-based policy. But it's not always clear what that means. That is why I will first ask what this should mean to Estonia. The second concept, which I think came up this year for the first time in both presentations, you and the Foreign Minister both mentioned it, is a true world. I have this philosophical question: how does the post-truth world threaten our value-based policies and what to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U81	Thank you, good Andres, for this question. That is really a philosophical question at the end. I actually tried to answer one subject and another in my speech, but I have the opportunity to perhaps expand these issues in answer to the question. A value-based policy, which has been our central foreign policy term over the years or also our thought, is an area that I think always needs deep attention in changing times. But I also mentioned in the speech that the central axis of our foreign policy here in a small country in the border area of the free world in Estonia are the values that have been recorded by the liberal world order setters at the end of World War II in a number of international conventions and agreements, starting with the UN Charter and ending with international agreements on many areas of life. For example, what you have contributed very much to over the last few years, Andres, is the action of the Council of Europe. It was only here that there was a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the developments that have taken place in recent months or in years in the internal policy of the Republic of Turkey, one of the founding countries of the Council of Europe. Estonia's primary interest, when we talk about a value-based foreign policy, is that this rule-based regime, in which the countries work, will remain, apply and, in fact, be strengthened. Of course, human rights and these soft values, which in many ways shape the same liberal world order, are part of this. At the same time, we know that there are very many sources of stress that threaten the same order, the same world that we understand. There are often no good answers in this regard. They are not the result of the competition between those who have carried this world order and have been in the role of leader. After all, we have not moved far beyond the Western world in this debate either today. When we talk about broader developments, such as the situation in the Middle East, or the position of China in one of the world's most influential countries in world politics, including the attitude to the world order that I mentioned earlier, not to mention our biggest neighbour, Russia, it must be said that these stress factors are increasing precisely in relation to the policy that we attach great importance to ensuring the security of our own country. The solution can only be one: the best possible cooperation with all of them, as I mentioned in the speech, who share our values, our principles, our understanding of this world order, which has held peace globally since the end of the disastrous second world war. In my opinion, it is extremely dangerous if, in an international debate, we give space to the idea that associations and alliances that have maintained this peace and stability, such as NATO, could disintegrate, and the alternative would be an independent system of states, according to the power and weight of each country in international politics. History has taught us that this system, however well put together, could have very serious and catastrophic consequences at some point because of the question of the balance of powers. I recall that a very exciting and interesting debate on Europe is currently taking place in the French President's election, that the former French Minister for Foreign Affairs, one of the politicians who founded the European Union, Robert Schuman, said in 1950, five years after the end of World War II, that we failed to create a united Europe and that the result was a great war. Now I'm talking about the post-truth world you touched in the other half of your question. I think we are just beginning to see the effect that this is actually having, especially on an open world, a democratic world, the central axis of which is freedom of expression and free expression of mind. Unfortunately, these developments, which, unfortunately, are also provided by social media, allow either half-sisters or falsehoods to influence public opinion's attitude to one or another critical issue. This may concern the internal or foreign policy of one or another country, which unfortunately already signals itself. I believe that a very dangerous message came from France yesterday when the French intelligence service publicly stated that Russia's interest was to help one specific candidate in the upcoming presidential elections, using precisely the instruments I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U82	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U83	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague! My question relates to the tough, but I think it is a fair, demand for NATO's European Member States to increase defence costs, as agreed decades ago, to 2%. As we know, after the end of the Cold War, and especially after the break-up of the Soviet Union in December 1991, western Europe seized euphoria that the era of the great wars was over, and essentially there was disarmament. Just a few examples. In 2013, the United States contributed 75% of NATO's total defence budget. Last year it was 70%, but not so much because Western European countries had increased their share, but because the US reduced its share. You've been in close contact with European colleagues lately, I mean political establishment. What is the attitude of the leadership of NATO partner countries? Do they take the threat from the east seriously? Do they intend to increase defence spending and improve defence capabilities in the near future, or will this conversational policy, as it has been so far, continue indefinitely? In short, what are the possible developments in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U84	Before answering, I would remind the questioners that you can ask two questions. Ants Laaneots had that first question. I'm asking for an answer now!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U85	Thank you. Good Ants! I believe we both know very well today's reality. You, as the former Commander of the Defence Forces, who, on a professional level, communicates with your colleagues, have previously also been in contact with the NATO allies, know well the reasons why political decisions have been made in particular, and what is lacking, which many European allies lack precisely in terms of capabilities. After all, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, we saw this far before the current President of the United States very vividly formulated the need for European allies to increase their share of NATO's common currency, and I am thinking above all of national defence spending. We have heard this talk for years, in fact, all NATO Secretary-Generals have said this by addressing the politicians of the NATO Member States, who are precisely the ones who must hold this debate at home and also justify it to their voters, why it is important, for example, to increase defence spending, perhaps at the expense of social policy or education, for example. These threats, which threaten us from different directions, may call into question the whole future of our normal welfare society. In my opinion, this knowledge has begun to arrive. I cannot say that this understanding is shared by all partners and allies. It was not until the meeting of the Defence Committee of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington in January that I experienced a different opinion from the Members of Parliament of several allied states, especially among the representatives of countries where the level of defence expenditure is currently around 1%. These are major countries, where 1% means EUR 20, 30 or 40 billion, and it is quite understandable that it is difficult to increase defence spending at this rate at a rapid pace. Even in Estonia, we know that in the case of 2% and a little more (we now have 2.2%) this will require a great deal of effort and this activity will last for quite several years, for example, we are dealing with a vision in the National Defence Development Plan for up to ten years. But in general, this trend is broken when there were negative-marked defense budgets. In most NATO countries, defence expenditure has started to increase, either in the form of promises or real steps. By 2018, all four countries in our region, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, will have defence spending at or above 2%, mainly due to the political decisions made by Latvia and Lithuania. But the same is what we see in countries that do not belong to NATO. See how important it has become, for example, in Finland and Sweden. The fact that Sweden is going back to military service is, in essence, a matter that has already been decided politically. There are other activities here. So I think that regardless of the position of the President of the United States, these perceptions exist among the European allies. But lastly, in answering this question, it is critical for NATO's future. It is not possible to consider a sustainable organisation with 28 Member States, but one country, as you rightly mentioned, bears almost 75% of all costs. Although most of the threats to NATO lie right here in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U86	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U87	Thank you. There's a ghost going around Europe again, and today it's a populist ghost. The ghost, who went around here 150 years ago, combines the same problems: the lack of well-being and the attitude of the elite that the great power of the people is a threat to stability. You, too, a good waitress, said something like this today that the great power of the people is testing democracy. If we want to ensure that the weapons remain silent in Europe and that everyone has a good place to live where they are born, the criticism of populists and anti-globalists must be taken seriously. European structures are not democratic. For example, the European Commission is at once a legislative and executive power, not even elected by the people. If we want to maintain European economic cooperation, the structural foundations of the European Union must be reviewed. What role should Estonia play in the restructuring of Europe, and what could the three of our proposals for this reform be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U88	Thank you, good Oudekki! A hot question, but not such a hot answer. Let's take it easy. In my presentation, I did not at all criticise the fact that the people have now gained the greatest power during the era of democratic states. On the contrary, I think that it is positive in every way. These reasons, which I made clear in the speech, are completely real. In one reply, the good Minister for Foreign Affairs said when it was about political correctness and the issues that politicians have considered necessary or appropriate to address in the political debate, that often things have gone by that which have been very important to people. I think that one of the most critical issues that Europe's unity and security, as well as at the level of its citizens, has caused quite a lot of disruptions, I have experienced this, talking to a great many of my colleagues and friends from a number of European countries, is still how little was the European administration, including the management of a number of major countries, on the one hand, to deal with the migration problem and, on the other hand, to understand the reasons for it, and also how to preserve European unity, given precisely the concerns that citizens have in one country or another. Of course, the European Union system, as you yourself mentioned, has evolved over decades. There is no doubt that such an existential, I would not say that the crisis, but still the moment of truth, especially after the Brexit referendum and Britain's decision to leave the European Union, has put a very serious question to the future of this same single European idea. What does this really mean for a person who chooses a parliament or a government in one country or another? In my opinion, these are the first issues: he senses that the normal development of a welfare society does not go at the rate he believes has been the norm so far, and he senses that his children may not be as successful in the future and may not live as well as he has lived. I speak in the context of a common person in many European countries. The limitations of economic growth have created a great deal of this mentality, and the perceived inequality is certainly what makes people ask questions. After all, we are seeing the developments that have taken place in Bucharest in recent days, where, for a completely incomprehensible reason, the government was somehow trying to limit the criminalisation of corruption crimes. These are trends that should make all responsible politicians in Europe, to whom the idea of a united Europe is extremely important, namely in terms of peace and stability, but also in terms of raising prosperity, think about what these internal developments should be, whether in the light of Brexit or in the context of the big elections that are about to take place, as I mentioned, in quite a number of very important countries across Europe. Of course, these moods must be taken into account, but we also need to see a slightly more distant horizon, in the sense that still holds us together as the common value space that is so important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U89	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U90	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! When we talk about security policy, value-based policies and the problem of migration, Turkey is increasingly giving its tone. Your delegation from the Commission was in Turkey last week. What is your opinion on whether Turkey is disturbing the unity of Europe when we think about the migration crisis, the European Union's migration agreement and human rights? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U91	Thank you, Külliiki! This is an extremely important issue. The delegation of the Committee on Foreign Affairs did not randomly choose the first foreign visit this year as a destination for the Republic of Turkey. We met our colleagues there, but not only. During the three days we were in Turkey, we visited three places: Istanbul, Ankara, and Gaziantep, on the border with Syria. Our aim during this visit was to understand as well as possible these subcurrents affecting Turkey's internal development, which undoubtedly affect not only Turkey's future, because, as I mentioned in response to Mr Andres, Turkey is one of the founding countries of the Council of Europe. Undoubtedly, these developments may affect the balance of powers in Turkey, and I will highlight as a keyword the freedom of the media or the forthcoming constitutional referendum. The goal was to understand these processes. Of course, the role of Turkey as a NATO ally is important to us, the way Turkey sees future relations with the Western countries, above all in the context of the European Union, of course. What is there to deny, at very many meetings, Turkish colleagues were still very critical of Europe. There were two planes. The first level was the reaction in many European capitals to what took place during the failed coup attempt on 15 July last year. The Turkish colleagues pointed out Estonia's rapid and clear reaction. We made it clear that in any case we would denounce the illegal coup attempt and support the legally elected power. By the way, it was very interesting that, at the meeting with the Turkish Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, it was stressed that although there are 80 million people in Turkey and 1.3 million in Estonia, we are bound by very long-term historical ties and very good relations. I recall that during the Soviet occupation, Turkey never recognised our membership of the Soviet Union. The same Deputy Foreign Minister said directly that, since relations are so good, we can honestly tell them what we think can be disturbing, especially in the context where Estonia is holding the Presidency of the Council of the European Union on 1 July and the question of continuing accession talks with Turkey can undoubtedly arise. Turkey itself hopes that accession talks may continue under the Maltese Presidency. Turkey is likely to face an exceptional situation, as we know, until April. Undoubtedly, among the internal agents that influence Turkey's future, apart from internal policy issues, there is, for example, the threat of terrorism. In essence, Turkey is actually in a state of war in its eastern territory, with the Kurdish majority. Last year there were over 700 incidents, more than 300 deaths. Let's not forget Syria, either. After all, at the end of last year, the Turkish armed forces entered Syria's territory for their own good to ensure security in their border regions. It should not be forgotten that Turkey's external trade is two thirds related to the European Union. When we asked what direction Turkey could move in, whether it was moving away from the Western countries, the Western world, Europe and perhaps looking in the wider direction of Eurasia, the answers we heard from both politicians and think tank analysts were such that Turkey was moving forward, despite all the difficult internal developments, with Europe and with the Western world. But we must undoubtedly keep our eyes open. Turkey can depend very much on developments, because it is a country of strategic importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U92	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U93	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, China has brought a "soft force" to the foreign policy lexic word set. As far as I can see, this means, among other things, that promoting relations between countries and helping to implement national objectives are people who do not have an appropriate political status, whether they be cultural people, academic people, entrepreneurs, etc. Do you share the idea that Members of Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs also have more potential and'soft power' to promote external relations, for example in foreign trade, etc.? Is that possible, and will you support the idea that the amount of foreign missions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs will increase a little when you draw up the budget for next year? I would also like to thank you for your very meaningful presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U94	Thank you, Urve! I didn't expect this to happen, my thoughts already went somewhere in Beijing and Shanghai. But that is a very correct and excellent question, and I am very happy to answer it. As for China, which you have brought into the game, we have today undoubtedly paid little attention to the hotspots that have arisen in relation to China's position in the world. By these, I mean, above all, what is happening at the South China Sea, which also has a lot to do with the issue of international law and principles. But let's save it for another debate. If we now come to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have historically had very good connections with China. I think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has often had the opportunity to contribute to a better understanding of each other in the individual nuances of bilateral relations. We are working now to ensure that our delegation from the Commission travels to China this year. It has been such a practice in our committee that, once in its composition, a visit is made to Chinese colleagues. Very interesting was my clash, in a positive sense, with our Chinese colleague, Madam Fuga, who is the chairwoman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chinese Parliament, a very influential former diplomat, a former Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been chairing the Committee on Foreign Affairs for years now. We ran into each other at the end of last year in Washington, U.S. Congress. We both had the same question: in what direction can the new, incoming US administration move in, and what effects can this administration's policy have on both China and Estonia? But it is not important, but it is important that China is an undoubtedly very important country in the coming decades, too, when we talk about maintaining very important rules of play, international law and world order. So these contacts are very important. However, as far as the capacity for external communication in the Riigikogu is concerned, only yesterday when we dealt with budgetary matters with the chairmen of parliamentary groups, I said that this amount of budget resources, which has been allocated for years to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu and also to other committees, delegations and parliamentary groups to communicate with colleagues in other parliaments, is not in itself small. I think it is very important that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also paid attention to this in its work, and it is how to better budget the funds foreseen. The fact that, in recent years, a quarter of the available resources have still been left over by the end of the year shows that we have not been able to foresee enough in our workpieces, and I am not only referring to the external relations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also to the Riigikogu as a whole, which are priorities, or to the use of these resources. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also proposed to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu what better methods of budgeting could be. For example, one of the options we have proposed is that, by 1 March, all those who have their own budget line in the form of funds allocated for external communication would have prepared their own budget for the year, stating what the planned activities will be, which will require funds from our external communication budget. I believe that we will be much smarter than today at the end of the year and will be able to make much better use of the resource we have. But, Urve, I'm finally going to tell you that, of course, there could always be more money than there is to be. This year, additional resources will also be available to prepare the Presidency of the European Union, which we will use in the best way possible. The most important thing is not money, but what we do for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U95	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. In your review, you stated as an estimate that strategic communication in foreign and security relations has been deficient. Would you explain the basis of this argument, whether it has been so in recent years and what is behind it? Next, do you think that Estonia has been able to rethink the capacity of the Estonian diaspora at today's level?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U97	Thank you, good Krista! A very important question. Unfortunately, there are a few nuances that are covered by state secrets. I wouldn't say any of the thoughts I have about this strategic communication right now in the remote. But, as I mentioned, during this spring session, the Commission is primarily planning to invite those who should ensure that the country's strategic communication is functioning first in terms of analysing information. I am still thinking of foreign and security policy issues, of how well and how quickly we become aware of the processes that are taking place somewhere, including those that may harm Estonia's interests in one case or another, and of our response to them at national level. As I mentioned, in an era of twisting facts and truth, the ability to deal with propaganda and disinformation is extremely important. We have seen cases of how quickly and easily it has been possible to display an image of Estonia in international media, as if something extraordinary was happening here, as we unfortunately saw last November during the last change of government. Undoubtedly, the actions of those who have been put in charge of this are important. Above all, I mean the State Chancellery. I hope that we will soon have an agreement with Mr Loode on when the first hearing could take place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. But it is not only the strategic communication sub-unit with the Prime Minister that matters, but also how, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and perhaps the Ministry of the Interior are seen as major foreign and security policy narratives, which we need to shape not only responsive capabilities but also, in some cases, be proactive. This is extremely important, although the general resistance of Estonian society to such influence is, in my opinion, much greater than in many Western countries. One of the United States senators in December last year told me that we obviously do not have a problem here with the concept of understanding, especially when we are talking about Russia's potential influence, which is right and what is wrong and which could harm our national interests, for example. This, however, is not clear and understandable in many Western countries, not even in the United States. So this is a very important area and the Commission takes this work very seriously. I hope that we can already talk about the results in the next foreign policy debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U98	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to have a voting procedure, because I remember the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal was to work today until the agenda was exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. In order to give this opportunity, we must vote. I am voting on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. Working hours have been extended. The 34 delegates voted in favour of this, and no one opposed it. I will open the round of negotiations and remind you that the first speakers proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs are the official representatives of the political groups, if I may say so. If you look at the list of speakers, it is already essentially guaranteed, with only one exception. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U99	Mr President! Dear Minister, Members of the Riigikogu! In the last issue of January, Sirp dedicated a whole bunch of articles to describing and devising the post-truth society. There were many examples of President Trump's statements, but certainly this term also refers to information wars, influence and so-called Internet trolls. Peter Pomerantsev has said that all that matters is that the lie is a clickable one, and that is determined by how much wrong feeds people's prejudices that already exist. We are well aware that the Kremlin uses countless false accounts on social media in its information operations. With reference to the forthcoming French presidential elections, we also know that one candidate, Marine Le Pen, is clearly more enthusiastic and skilled than others as a new media user. These are two branches of a single tree. Perhaps, as the Information Office's yearbook, which has just been published, describes Russia's influence: 'Invented information often finds fertile ground in anti-Elite circles in the EU Member States, which spread the Kremlin's points of view. ' Consider here what it means to be an anti-Elite district. The Free Party, criticizing the elite's egoism, for example, in funding political parties, is probably an anti-Elite district. EKRE is also an anti-Elite district. I think that, in any case, the stigmatisation of the anti-Elite district must be exercised with caution, unless there is a specific question as to which country is meant and who is the one we are talking about. Unfortunately, Le Pen's Kremlin spirit is known, but one of his main competitors, the so-called elite candidate, is facing a serious corruption charge, and it does not come from the closure of the trolls of the post-truth world. In other words, the elite must look very seriously in the mirror to fix their own face. Two weeks ago, a delegation from the Riigikogu participated in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. There, for the first time, a corruption scandal related to the former President of the EPP Envoy Group, Luca Volontè, exploded in public. We were attracted to this mainly by the fact that more than two million euros have been claimed to have moved through the Estonian branch of Danske Bank, which was intended to influence the outcome of a resolution on Azerbaijan. I myself was chairman of the committee during this vote, and I remember it very well. I'm sure I'm ashamed of a former colleague if the charges are true. More precisely, I have no doubt that the accusation is true, but I am surprised that this person, Luca Volontè, is at the heart of the charge. I think that this is rather the top of the iceberg, the network to be bought in European politics and its elite is, unfortunately, wider. The first accusations about the activities of so-called caviar diplomacy, or European politicians, appeared in public at least five years ago. Now there's a case on the Milan DA's desk. And we have to ask where there are European values here, where the elite's sense of responsibility is. If there are no values and no sense of responsibility... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U100	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U101	...then a vacuum will be created, filled by extremists. Quoting the Information Office once again: 'To the left, Russia's opposition to the US and to the right, Moscow's vigorous stand for its own interests and so-called conservative values, is to be welcomed. ' I'm gonna add an old Russian political jargon to my side: I guess useful idiots are both of them. So, Francis Fukuyama, quarter of a century ago, is far from the end of history, unfortunately, but William Shakespeare's "Time is open" is a timeless and timely figure. If the so-called post-truth era is dangerous, frightening and dramatic, let us also remember that, aside from the illusion of the end of history after the Cold War, which remained an illusion, there is no funny reminder of any time that would have been easy. There's always some kind of trouble, and you have to clean it up. As far as the sequel of truth is concerned, I believe it must be tamed by the simple truth: everyone has the right to his or her opinion and conclusions, but no one must have the right to facts that are not objective. There is no right to your own facts, neither President Trump nor President Putin, nor anyone. It often seems to me that our foreign policy debate is entangled in what is happening in Trump's or Putin's head. Yet, it is not a very fruitful sport of speaking. We need to think, here and now, above all, about maintaining European unity, continuing cooperation between the European Union and the United States, and Estonia as a democratic state and a free society, where elite mistakes and political corruption would not create the ground for the emergence of useful idiot extremists. The above-mentioned issue of Sirb's post-truth society distinguishes, among other things, the relationship between Socrates and the sophists with the truth. According to Plato's description, Socrates was to speak the truth; sophists argued only in view of the crude victory. There is no doubt that Estonia's foreign policy must be platonic, or truth- and value-based, on the basis of this division. This means, among other things, that adherence to international law, including the legal continuity of the Estonian state, is a path that must not be allowed to be separated by the post-truth society or the post-Saviari Estonian policy, where the Central Party government also bears the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U102	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Reform Party faction. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve the goals of a small country like Estonia, favourable conditions prevail when our external environment is an open and value-based interstate space where international law pays. We can do so very much ourselves, but not everything, because we are affected by what is happening in the world and we are dependent on it. The persistence of Estonia's statehood and the chances of success are always at risk when the world returns to great egoism or dictated power politics. Without sowing panic, it is fair to admit that these principles and values, which support the success of the Estonian state, are at risk in the present world. The return of force policy and the egoism of the great powers to foreign policy has not diminished at all over the last year. On the contrary, we can see that the beautiful carefree drift of the Western political elite, which has been going on for years, and the quiet dislocation that has begun from the foundations of societies, will lead to the threshold of the new world order. This welcoming world is not a better world for Estonia. More specific developments, which are currently very seriously threatening our security and prospects for success alongside an aggressive neighbour, are the possible replacement of Western cooperation and free trade with closure and confrontations, egoism in countries and protectionism. We have to ask if and what we can do about all this. The world's press and social media have spent an unprecedented amount of hours and internet space in recent months to fuel each other's emotions with the help of the tweets and parts of interviews by the new President of the United States. There can be no denying, cautionful reports of the leader state of the free world have come. However, when we talk about the external environment this year and its unpredictability, we must, at least with the same care, address the changes here in Europe. In this part of the world, we are part of the providers of the solution and plan and those responsible for it. For us, there is nothing more important for Estonia than the unity and persistence of the European Union, NATO and the Western Allies. Of course, it is true that there is a huge impact on future events in the French and German elections, where we only have an attentive observer role. However, in the near future, it will be a question of the European Union's ability to pursue a coherent, comprehensible and effective policy of ensuring growth, people's daily security and better prospects for the future. Whatever the case, there is no particular indication of the seriousness of the situation in the political elite of European countries. The wheel rolls from election to election in this business-as-usual rhythm and is often dominated by short-term domestic policy interests. However, there is a long-screaming need for a new core, a far-sighted and at the same time a strong 500-million-dollar alliance, which is sensitive to the currents of the European project, which takes the fate and the leadership of the European project into its own hands. Can they do that? Playing fear and offering them seeming solutions is the bread of the populists. However, the timely rejection of fears and failure to respond to them with real solutions can be fatal to so-called mainstream politicians. Whether it is a fear of migratory pressures, globalisation, aggressive power or economic concerns. Finding credible and convincing answers to the following issues is a minimal critical task for the European Union in the near future. Firstly, effective and effective control of external borders. Secondly, the actual integration of asylum seekers in the migration crisis at a scale and pace acceptable to society. Thirdly, greater commitment by European countries to their own defence capabilities. And fourthly, helping to preserve free trade in the world. Against this background, there is a need to make the governance of the European Union more understandable. Estonia has all the prerequisites of trust built over long periods of time to think about these topics and offer rational solutions. Our upcoming Presidency will make this more an obligation than an opportunity, so the question is whether the government is ready for this. In addition to the internal and interdisciplinary concerns of the countries of the European Union, the most important issue for us, knowing our aggressive neighbour, is, of course, the security situation. The Putin regime continues to implement the geopolitical strategy for the destruction of Western Europe in cold blood, using all means of counter-humanity migration pressure from Syria to Libya, support for populist isolation parties, cyber attacks, corruption of media space within a country with false and information attacks, and playing against each other through all sorts of manipulations. There's no change for the better. Part of Georgia's territory is still occupied, the third year of war in Ukraine led by the Putin regime, killing civilians in 2017. The activities of the Putin regime, which began in the second half of last year in the Balkans, have so far received little attention. Russia will not withdraw; it will not change its aggressive behaviour. Our response to this aggressive regime that violates international law and threatens the independence of countries must be strong and appropriate. The world's strongest defence organisation, NATO, has increased its contribution to our region, doing so even more. In any case, our thanks belong to the British, the Danes, the French, Canada, the United States and Germany, whose contribution to our region is very important and central. Furthermore, the sanctions imposed on the organisation of aggression against another country must remain in force until aggression is over and Ukraine has regained full control of its own territory. In addition to the economic impact, these sanctions also have strong moral support for Ukraine. These are principles that are not sacrificed. There is no choice but to be unacceptable here, this has been Estonia's position so far, and this must continue to be the case. There was a comment earlier on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the speed of response to escalation in Ukraine last week. I will take a little bit of clarification or correction of this observation. I would like to say that the perception of our diplomats regarding the security situation is certainly still sharp, but the perception of those sitting behind the table of our changed government and cabinet should be sharper. Estonia's international credibility, our instinct to perceive the security situation in this region, our knowledge in this area and the courage to express them are something that is rightly highly valued in Europe. Reliability has been our largest foreign policy capital. If a pen is grabbed in the newly elected government to soften the joint declaration of the long-prepared prime ministers between diplomats, do not tell us that nothing has changed in our political line. The official foreign political line run by diplomats hasn't changed. But what has changed is that more and more we see in the government's leading party do not know which channels came from and do not know whose pushed unofficial line that does not always support Estonia's official foreign policy course. Finally. We do not know in detail what the situation will be in this Chamber in a year's time by taking stock of the development of foreign policy, but we know what is most important to us. It is the strength of unity between Europe and the Western world, the maintenance and development of allied relations, support for those who have chosen the path of democratic reforms and for whom we are sometimes the last hope. These are, at all, the most important actions to assess the success of the current government in the future. Good luck to all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U104	On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U105	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Foreign policy is an area in which the state must be unconditionally unified. For a small country, this is the only way to protect its interests at international level. The previous speakers have said a great deal, and the unity of our foreign policy is demonstrated by the fact that we agree on fundamental issues. That is why I do not have the point of repeating what we have already said here. I would therefore like to bring in a few other aspects in my report, which perhaps have received less attention, and to devote some attention to them within my limited time frame. First of all, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association have always supported Estonia's active participation in the European Union and NATO and the strength and development of these organisations. It is clear, however, that it is not enough to limit ourselves to words and beliefs. Estonia must also actively contribute to this cooperation. We must not accept the idea that Estonia is only a consumer in the European Union and NATO. We'd rather be the leader. History has given us experiences that many countries do not have, in particular, in terms of the knowledge and perception of Russia; our partners and allies are increasingly convinced of this on the basis of international events over the last decade. However, the world is bigger than the European Union and NATO. As an independent state, Estonia cannot pretend that there is no other world for us, or that it is enough to close ourselves into the European Union and NATO cocoons. We must recognise that Estonia has interests elsewhere in the world, and Estonia must actively defend and represent these interests. I would particularly stress two areas in which our foreign policy has, in my view, room for growth. One of them is consular activity. Although visa liberalisation has expanded considerably for Estonian citizens in recent decades, there are still dozens of countries in the world that are visa-free for our neighbours, Finns and Swedes, but are not visa-free for us. Visa conditions in some countries are even discriminatory for us. Not going to read the countries by name, but I would stress that this is particularly the case for some African countries. One of the priorities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must be to achieve the same travel conditions as other citizens of European Union countries for Estonian citizens. Secondly, I also briefly touch on foreign economic policy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed the importance of foreign economic policy and we also believe that much more attention should be paid to it. Often, modest action is justified by the fact that foreign economic policy falls within the competence of the European Union and it is as if the Member States should have no role to play here. However, Member States also defend their national interests in foreign economic policy. Estonia should look towards more distant markets than the European Union and our closest neighbours. We should look more courageously even towards an area like Africa. I can confirm from my experience that many of our industries, including the food industry, have quite a market on this continent. Estonia's development aid and humanitarian aid should also not be limited to financial payments, which ultimately means supporting companies in other countries. We can also support our companies in contributing to development and humanitarian aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U106	Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U107	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu, Minister of Foreign Affairs and colleagues! Due to the recent change of government and foreign minister, the Minister's desire to make a general statement instead of a report may be understood, but a more accurate and focused review would nevertheless have been expected. Each country's foreign policy is based on national interests and values based on which objectives and strategies are set. However, those in power in Estonia have not considered it important to define them. This has made Estonia's interests secondary, it is feared to differ from a multicultural and losing traditional values in Europe. The protection of Estonia's interests is seen as a contradiction, and policies aimed at national statehood and values have been replaced by the uncritical acceptance of the interests and recommendations of other countries of the European Union and of all kinds of organisations. It's not normal. Security, Russia, NATO, mass immigration, Islamic terrorism, the development of the external economy, the crisis in the European Union and the inability of the Community to act quickly and adequately are the key words of foreign policy. We have a relative consensus on Russia's policy of disregarding international law and aggressive politics. Nor is the need for NATO and allied relations called into question. It's all positive, so I won't stop at it for long. However, because of Russia's practice, we must use military force to achieve political goals, and we must take sanctions uncompromisingly. This is not radicalism, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said when the Committee on Foreign Affairs called for the tightening of Estonia's positions. We have also heard the claims that Estonia's wish at the meeting of the Baltic Prime Ministers was softened by a statement in the direction of Russia. Neither did the Minister of Foreign Affairs convincingly reject it. Such tendencies cause concern and doubt about the further steps taken by the left government. Looking at Estonia's European Union policy, Estonia seems to have taken on the role of a collaborator. But it cannot always be expected that we will be taken seriously. Once the British even had such an anecdote: 'Who is blonde and agrees with everything? Answer: Estonian Minister of Foreign Affairs. ' Estonia's foreign policy is rather aimless and submissive. The wish to ratify the border treaty that is harmful to Estonia, which gives Russia free 5.2% of our territory with the valuable resources that remain there, the failure to demand compensation for occupation losses from Russia, although the Riigikogu made a claim decision already in 2004, and the continued surrender of Estonia's powers and sovereignty to Brussels, although the Supreme Court stated that a referendum was needed. The red line has already been crossed. We stand for the territorial integrity of other countries, but not for ourselves. Brexit did not come to an empty position; there are deep reasons for the dissatisfaction of the peoples of Europe. If Brexit learns lessons and returns to the European Union, which means a union of equal states, a return of power to members, the abolition of the directive economy and bureaucracy, the abolition of mass immigration and quota policies, and the promotion of European culture and values, I am talking about real values, not about left-liberal false values, then the Union will remain. Otherwise, the result is an increasing loss of confidence and the departure of countries. It is already being discussed in France, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, Italy and elsewhere. Tagging EU critics into 19th century xenophobes, populists and extremists will not help. There is a need for substantive change, not for praises to the trends that have run wild and to Brussels's foreign policy. Estonia will have a responsible role as the Presidency of the European Union. If we want the European Union and the European way of life to be preserved, we must look boldly and openly at developments in both the East and the South, point to the problems of the European Union and offer viable solutions instead of the toothless chat room of false political correctness. It is true that the closure of internal borders will not solve the crisis of terrorism and immigration. However, if the external borders of the Union are to be like a sieve, when the European Border Guard and the military mission Sophia provide free transport services for human smugglers, bringing thousands of immigrants from African coastal waters to Europe, that is the consequence. It is precisely because of the lack of genuine will in Brussels to stop illegal immigration, which is accompanied by terrorism, increased crime and mass harassment of women, that Member States have been forced to take these measures. The European Union itself has been the largest destroyer of the Schengen area and the perpetrator of Islamist terrorism. Once again, Estonia has done everything and always agreed. Help for those in need and Estonia has been at the forefront of development aid, but help must be provided in countries of migration and crisis, not to bring problems to Europe, including us. Compliance with refugee conventions and quota commitments under the sign of solidarity must not take place at the cost of national suicide. It is time to review the outdated conventions of the past era. Estonia, with nearly 30% of its population of foreign origin, could be a front speaker here with people of the same opinion. Instead, in the new framework document of Estonian European Union policy, the provision that Estonia does not accept forced immigration quotas was deleted, and almost 11000 immigrants from third countries, mainly Russia, Ukraine and Belarus, are accepted each year, with the last two years. This way, we will soon see how we are a minority in our own country. I want to congratulate the Foreign Minister. Although he admitted that Brexit and the Presidential elections in the United States did not please him, the Minister's speeches on these issues have become more balanced, in contrast to earlier ones, when he promised to put on labels that were inherent in his social ties both to the current President of the United States and to British politicians. This is positive because both the US and Great Britain are our biggest and strongest allies, and good relations with them are our security guarantor, which must not be compromised by bitter statements. However, this understanding has not reached all left- and right-liberals, mainstream media, nor the public ERR. It seems as if the presidential elections in the United States did not end, and certain circles are trying to change the results with intolerance and fury without understanding that it is damaging our allies. Or is it knowingly done? Unfortunately, I can't deal with any more issues. What, though, must Estonia's foreign policy objectives and vision be? The answer is simple, it is written in the preamble to the Constitution: the Estonian state was created to ensure the preservation of the Estonian language, culture and nationality. The whole apparatus of the state, as well as foreign policy, must be aimed precisely at implementing this objective. Good luck to all of us! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U108	On behalf of the Group of the Marko Šorin Centre Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U109	President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion of foreign policy in the honourable hall of the Riigikogu came to an interesting time due to tradition. The change of the cabinet, which took place just over two months ago, has given rise to quite a lot of response. It was only yesterday that a strange discussion was unfolded in this very hall, trying to surround the Prime Minister with several maneuverings. This is despite the fact that the new government has confirmed it several times: Estonia's foreign policy and security policy will not change; they will not be changed. The fundamental principles for Estonia cannot and must not be distorted by changes in government. I would stress here that Estonia is still supporting Ukraine, helping people in difficult humanitarian situations. The government has just allocated EUR 400000 to alleviate a serious humanitarian situation in the crisis area. As much has been said today about Brexit, Trump, Syria and Russia, I am focusing attention on another aspect of foreign policy, the external economy. If, in the case of defence capabilities, Estonia can rely on our membership of NATO and common foreign policy in the European Union, then we can only stand up for the development of the external economy on our own. Only we can create the prerequisites for Estonian entrepreneurs to increase their export capacity. We in this Chamber, as representatives of the state and foreign policy makers, must jointly ask what we have done to promote foreign trade and whether we have created or are creating opportunities for companies to increase export volumes. It is very popular and, at the same time, elitist to talk about conquering new and distant markets. The contract of the Estonian dairy producer with Japan's cooperation partner, resulting in 500 tonnes of cheese being exported to the foreign market in the first half of this year, exceeds the news threshold and the air time in evening news is guaranteed. I've been dealing with export issues for over a decade. In my early days, I considered it a great challenge to reach new markets. Putting a new flag on the map of the world is also worth the effort. Although this is not a global market conquest, it is a step forward. I am pleased that there is a company like Wendre in Pärnumaa, which plays a strong role in its sector and shares the global market with other powerful producers from other parts of the world. In the case of Wendre, the fact that the company's sales work, or direct contact with the market, is organised from Estonia should be highlighted as an important factor. There are not many such companies in Estonia. We may be able to produce in large volumes, but if sales contacts are elsewhere, there is a risk that production opportunities might be found elsewhere. We are geographically interesting, not to say in a hard-to-access place. For Central Europe as a prosperous and large market, Estonia is in a logistical deadlock. There is a large market on the east side, but talking about this country alone is already quite a sin in this Chamber. Therefore, we should approach Europe in competition with countries that are closer to Germany, France and other wealthy countries than Estonia. Being consistently competitive in near-markets is much more complicated, but certainly more profitable than anywhere in exotic markets with other customs and habits. Estonia's efforts, along with other Baltic countries, to shorten the time-space distance, for example by using the Baltic railway, tend to get stuck behind interest groups or political differences. Shouldn't we still give ourselves a chance? Last night, when I wrote down these lines, I couldn't help but remember the story of a man who asked for the greatest lottery victory. The almighty heard his prayers, but for once in his life he advised him to buy a lottery ticket. First of all, there must be an opportunity, because the lottery winnings are not in themselves falling on anyone's lap. I come back from infrastructure issues to foreign policy. It is worrying that Estonia's embassies are small and that there is not enough staff to deal with foreign trade issues. We must find our own place in the world division of labour at the next level, because the image of the land of cheap wage-based mass production, which we have experienced since regaining independence, has long been exhausted. An interesting paradox has now arisen: workers complain about unemployment, of course there is a cost-effective job here, while employers are concerned about the lack of working hands. To sum up, coming back to the beginning of the presentation: let us no longer discuss whether Estonia's position with the new government is inclined or in decline. Rather, let us focus on solving common problems. I recall here the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Jaan Poska, who has been mentioned repeatedly in this Chamber, apparently has a lot of respect for him. On the third day of the meeting of the Constituent Assembly in 1919, he called on all the members of the assembly: all differences must be resolved in this high house, but outside we must stand up for Estonia as one man. I wish us the strength to do so and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U110	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U111	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U112	I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, I read last night's verbatim report on the debate on foreign policy as an important national issue last year. Several reports ran through the finding that the year behind it was extremely turbulence. That's true. That's true. However, one of the speakers could hardly have guessed when the year ahead would be turbulence. Now this year has passed, and once again we can see that it was exceptionally turbulence. How many were there last year when we realized that the world was not the same! Actually, it isn't. One of the most unpleasant surprises was certainly the referendum on the continuation of the country in the European Union last 23 June in Great Britain, namely the outcome of the referendum that took place, with 52% of the participants voting in favour of leaving the European Union. We are now in a country where the British are ready to start official farewell talks, i.e. our very close ally is leaving the European Union. Much attention has certainly been paid to the November elections to the President of the United States. A man was elected whose potential policy is less predictable and whose signals on very many issues have been contradictory. The view of free trade by the new administration is extremely important to Estonia, but we are even more interested in our common security policy and everything that concerns it. Europe is still concerned about the migration crisis. Last year, the pressure on Europe from the migration crisis was less than a year earlier. Indeed, illegal migration declined three times last year, but the root causes are still unresolved, so the pressure, unfortunately, continues. Work to solve migrant problems is only at an early stage. International terrorism has also used forced migration as a cover. Throughout the year, terrorist attacks took place in European countries, but also outside. Last year two Estonians lost their lives in a terrorist attack in France. In a number of countries, radicalisation has also taken place, partly because of the spread of terrorism, and this is already causing the following problems. The issue of Ukraine remains unresolved. Three years ago, annexation of Crimea and military aggression took place in the eastern part of the country. Not enough, unfortunately, the last few days have shown a clear escalation of the conflict situation. However, since such a situation has lasted for three years without fundamental changes, it is also understandable for the international community to pay less attention to the issue. It's very dangerous for us. If Russia's aggression in Georgia in 2008 had received a strong response from the international community, it might have helped to avoid later events in Ukraine. There are places where there is no right to remain a bystander, and the violation of national sovereignty is certainly one of those. Last July, a coup attempt took place in Turkey, and the consequences of this event will certainly be reflected in the near future. What would you take with you in such a turbulence year's next wisdom? Still a deep understanding of the need for allied relations and cooperation. The more allies we have, the stronger we are. It is the allies who share the same values with us. Relationships with such allies must be strengthened and maintained every day. In view of the above, it can be said that Estonia's security is guaranteed - we are not under attack, either internally or externally. But such times must be used very intensively to strengthen relations with other countries. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has already mentioned that because of the turbulence and the events of last year, our diplomats had a very busy year. I believe that the coming year will be even more workable, which is why the government's path towards strengthening the External Action Service is certainly worthy of great praise. But in fact, each of us is an Estonian representative in this hall. We do not have the luxury of leaving foreign policy to professional diplomats. Every national envoy can and must contribute to strengthening external relations. Each of us can and must contribute to establishing relations, for example, with the Members of the Allied States. In fact, relations must be established with representatives from all countries that share the same values as us. Of course, we hope and expect that our country will not have critical moments where we are under attack in one way or another. But at difficult times, such personal relationships benefit from having a number on your cell phone from a person whose voice may be crucial in one place or another. By the way, such relationships are often also the first step towards economic relations. So let us feel our share and our responsibility. In addition, we need to understand the importance of our country's contribution, the importance of our participation in all international formats. It is very important to distinguish between formal and substantive participation. The meaning is only really active participation, being present to be visible and audible, being present to defend our values. By doing so, we will confirm that our value space will last and be strengthened. In today's world, there is no place or justification for passiveness. Therefore, as a country, we must make the most of ourselves under the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, but also in all other formats, in order to strengthen allies in order to ensure that the values that are important to us are maintained and, above all, to make a fair contribution to peace in the world. One more thing, though. Domestic opportunistic points in foreign policy are not a good tactic. It's not good practice either. The fact that this time the Foreign Affairs Minister can also be asked questions in the foreign policy debate by representatives of other parties is good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U114	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U115	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I do not have a prepared speech; it is rather a reaction to today's debate. In all years, when such a debate has taken place, I have taken a very bad view of the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups who have questioned the consensus on foreign policy and the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What I'm saying is different. I still believe in the competence and honesty of our diplomats and in no way criticise the Minister for Foreign Affairs at this time. But I have to admit, the elephant is still in the room. No one's ever tried to get him out of there, even though we've been trying to get him to do it by asking the Prime Minister questions. However, the Prime Minister's party has a valid agreement with the United Russia which other European democracies and their prime minister's parties do not have. That's a fact. The fact is also that we have over a period of time a Prime Minister who has a language barrier in contact with his Western colleagues, but who has started to talk with the calls to speak more about Russia at a time when Russia has only become more aggressive. It's a sign of danger. Understand, this is not a domestic political issue, it is a question of parliamentary supervision. I do not question the consensus on our foreign policy, but it has been questioned by the Prime Minister and his party, including in this Chamber today. On the issue of the epidemic, on which I have tried to find out from the Prime Minister, I actually received a reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs today. The Prime Minister rejected everything, for the time being, and still plays hide-and-seek. I think it's a catastrophic precedent. I do not know of such a case that the cabinet is starting to draft, as the Foreign Minister said, an international draft resolution. I also do not know such a precedent that he would have done it in any way more relaxed towards Russia, removed Russia from the text in order not to offend it. Surprising statements come from our Baltic partners who ask: "What is going on there in Estonia? '. A Member of Parliament must respond to this. It is not an internal policy, it is a monitoring of foreign policy, which we can do even if we do not recognise ourselves as more competent and informed than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this sense, Sven Mikser was unfair that he referred to a lack of support in the opposition at a time when he was actually communicating with my party. The fact is that the problem of consensus in our foreign policy really does exist, but it exists elsewhere, and it was heard from here. On my question, I have already referred to what I did not say. In fact, the answers were generally satisfactory and I liked what the Foreign Minister said. Maybe some things should have ended better. However, the endings came from another group, and they relate to events that have shaken the world apart from Russia's behaviour, but unfortunately also in sync with Russia's ambitions. They concern the breakdown of Europe, they concern the contestation of NATO, they concern the elections that have taken place or are taking place and referendums in Europe. I would have liked to hear more about these aspects today and to get more reassuring messages from this remote control about the persistence of Western cooperation and ally relations. Now, there's really a problem here, not in government departments. Maybe the Prime Minister's party has some, but it's not dominant. It's just that they're grinning... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U117	... over the fact that it is a matter of time before the European Union falls apart. It is said that there must be no thought of any change in the policy of any ally. At the same time, some very homemade security solutions are being sought from us, as well as from Latvia and Lithuania, without seeing them where they are, in fact, at both political and military level, in global Western cooperation. It's something you have to talk about more and you have to argue about more. We have a serious problem. We have a problem with value policy, because the internal political development of our allies seriously casts doubt on the liberal democratic values. These are all things that we have lost consensus on within the country. But I once again assure you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the policy it represents have full confidence. Do not squirt it in the government, and do not reproach us if we in Parliament are interested in it and wish it not to be squirmed. Please don't do that again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U118	Foreign Minister Sven Mikser has expressed his wish to participate in the negotiations on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U119	Honourable representatives, first of all, thank you for this more passionate debate than usual. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to answer the questions at length. At the same time, by pushing the previous speaker, I assure you that government policy, security and foreign policy have not changed or changed in terms of their objectives. I also confirm that the Estonian state, Estonia's foreign policy, is moving on a steady course, in waters which, unfortunately, are becoming more and more stormy. If the opposition wants to hear from us what the outcome of one or another of the forthcoming elections in Europe has begun in the year, then democracy is that, although we have our hopes, of course, we cannot give any assurance. Talking about the post-truth world is definitely part of the problem. The second part is probably the promotion of foreign policy for domestic consumption. It is not even a question of truth or lies. During these years, when I have spent my life in Estonian foreign policy, in fact, since the end of the last century, I have seen quite a lot of people who are silent at the international negotiating table as stockings display their struggle for Estonian national interests through social media or also through the press in a way that truly makes us feel awe. I have not resented or publicly criticised this so far, as long as these attempts to hoist myself before the Estonian public do not directly conflict with Estonia's foreign policy interests. If they're gonna do it, I'm afraid I can't be quiet either. I don't think you can blame cluck, but you have to do it when an egg's laid before. I therefore maintain this conviction that, if our foreign policy is driven by people from whom their Western colleagues come and ask for advice on issues such as the Middle East or North Africa, it will certainly also be heard much more seriously about what we are talking about in Ukraine, Russia, our immediate neighbourhood and our vital security interests. I think that the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union will give us the opportunity to expand our foreign policy reach and profile and thereby gain greater credibility for us on existential issues. The same will certainly be our campaign to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and hopefully, if this campaign is successful, two years of non-permanent membership of the Security Council. The consensus on foreign policy and security policy is worth holding. This consensus is never absolute and probably doesn't have to be, but it doesn't have to be easily broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-09_U120	Thank you. The plenary session of the Riigikogu is closed. I'll see you next week. Closure of the sitting at 1:41 p.m.
