ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 9th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Congratulations to Jaanus Marrand, who is starting a new year's round today. [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you also want to hand over drafts and enquiries. Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U2	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission wishes to pass on the draft law amending the Planning Act and, in this respect, the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Environmental Management System Act. The draft allows the organiser of planning activities (local government unit, Ministry of Finance or other government agency) to conclude a contract with an interested party to prepare the plan and to assess the impact, including the costs of strategic environmental impact assessment. The plan manager may, according to the draft, conclude a contract with the interested party to cover the costs of drawing up the plan as well as the costs of the impact assessment for the planning on which the construction project is based (special plan of the state, special plan of the local government, detailed plan). The plan manager may agree with the person interested in drawing up the plan that the organizer will do all the activities necessary for drawing up the plan (procurement, planning procedure, publication, coordination), but the interested party shall pay the costs related to the preparation of the plan and impact assessment. The changes will allow development projects to be carried out regardless of the financial resources of the planner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U3	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws, the short content of which is that the additional increase in legalised gas excise duty should be removed at the end of last year and the previously regularised situation restored. The government planned a new increase in excise duty last year in the framework of the tax bill, without involving interest groups. The excessive and sharp increase in the rate of excise duty on natural gas is detrimental to gas consumers, the national economy and the development of the natural gas market. The impact of the additional increase in gas excise duty on 100000 domestic consumers, as well as on 2000 companies, especially energy-intensive companies, is detrimental to both the people of Estonia and the Estonian economy. We want to cancel this tax increase. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U5	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to report an inquiry to Finance Minister Sven Sester. The point is that money laundering undermines the stability of the public financial sector and threatens the economy of each country. The Estonian state cannot underestimate its role in the international system of combating money laundering and terrorism, despite its small size. A journalistic project focused on organised crime and corruption has found that about 1.6 billion dollars of Russian-origin criminal money has allegedly moved through Estonian banks. On this case, I and a large number of other members of the Reform Party have a number of questions for the Minister of Finance. First of all, we want to know whether the Minister was aware of the matter as Chairman of the Financial Supervision Authority Board and when the information reached him. We are also asking: if banks have been ordered to do so, how is it possible that no criminal proceedings have been initiated and not even criminal fines have been imposed? We ask the Minister to explain why Estonia's penal policy for not implementing preventive measures for money laundering and terrorist financing is more lenient than in other countries. The draft bill sent to the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of March sets a maximum fine of EUR 400000 in the case of money laundering, although the directive would allow the application of tens of times higher rates and the amount of fines in other countries would be much higher. At the same time, as we remember, we recently adopted amendments to the law governing the securities market, with which the penalty money increased to EUR 15 million. Apart from these, we still have a number of questions about the suspected money laundering case. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U7	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U8	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, We have an inquiry for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Last year Estonia spent 2.7 million euros on 77 quota refugees. They've come around 120 now, but according to the press, 25 of them have gone in an unknown direction, i.e. they've disappeared. By the way, the law allows them to stay away from Estonia for six months without having to register their entry and exits. We have no idea where they are, whether they come back or if they have left other countries. As there is no obligation to register the departure, how and from what point will the time spent in the country and the time spent on the journey be taken into account? How will it be checked and verified whether the person has been travelling, rather than leaving permanently in another country? If you do not know when someone left Estonia, then on what basis and at what point will the payment of the allocated allowances be suspended? Are the amounts unduly paid and the expenditure incurred being charged to the beneficiaries themselves in the event of departure? If not required, for what reason? Are there checks on which countries refugees go? If they go to the country from which they have fled because of alleged persecution or threat, etc., they have therefore made false declarations. In fact, they are not at risk in this case, so they also do not meet the requirements for protection and should be deprived of their refugee status. Is it done? If not, why? How many have refugee status been revoked or revoked? Those are the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U9	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U10	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party, the Minister of Health and Labour, Mr Ossinovski, will report to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund about the fraud of money. ETV and the entire ERR have been drawing attention throughout March to fraud schemes that have been used by the health insurance fund to fraud money. People acquired an orthosis on the basis of a digital prescription, where sales companies had the health insurance fund pay the price of the product more expensive than the price at which the medical accessory was actually purchased. In addition, the "News+" programme pointed out that the Health Insurance Fund had not noticed how disproportionately many invoices were made for custom-made orthosis. It turned out that fake invoices have been submitted since 2013 and that the damage allegedly amounts to hundreds of thousands of euros. The Health Insurance Fund has actually received direct indications from customers about the fraud scheme, but has hardly responded to them at all. The representatives of the Health Insurance Fund have also decided that they will not answer questions from journalists. The fact that the two companies also sell technical aids financed from the state budget makes the whole thing particularly spicy. A reasonable question arises as to whether there have also been fraud schemes for aid instruments financed by the budget of the Social Insurance Board. To understand everything better, we have put seven relevant questions to the Minister for Health and Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U11	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U12	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight members of the Reform Party Group will submit an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Anvelt. I'm about to say that the title of the inquiry sounds a little scary, namely the illegal digging of unknown graves by police officers. In fact, however, this is relatively positive, we point out the problem that there is a situation in Estonia quite systematically where, if someone finds a skeleton during excavation, the police are called. The police are going to dig up these skeletons on their own and send human bones to the forensic lab in plastic bags. However, if this is the most common case of war, then it is no longer possible to identify exactly what was there. Or if, for example, the earthly remains of a Viking warrior have been found, even so, there is even less understanding of what it is. In essence, the police are in violation of either the law on heritage conservation or the law on the protection of war graves. It is, of course, a question of lack of knowledge, not of maliciousness. We want the Minister of the Interior to do something about this, and we hope that it will improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U13	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U14	Mr President! Honourable Riigikogu! At the end of this impressive initiative, the Group of the Free Party will re-submit to the Riigikogu the draft law amending the law on the election of the local government council and other laws. Its contents are as follows: Firstly, the so-called two-chair law, which has been adopted here and allows members of the Riigikogu to apply for local government councils, must be taken down. Secondly, a clear principle must be established that the new acquired mandate cancels the previous one. The right to apply remains undoubtedly, but if a member of the Riigikogu has been elected to a local government council, the mandate of his member of the Riigikogu will automatically lapse and vice versa. I would like to remind you that together with Juku-Kalle Raid, I have submitted a similar draft in the previous composition of the Riigikogu. In a somewhat altered form, it has gone through this composition. Given that the problem is very acute, especially in the context that local authorities are becoming larger and that the concentration of power is increasing even further, it is appropriate to present this draft now again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U15	However, my colleagues are able to surprise Andres Herkel with Igor Gräzin giving up the next initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U16	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, There's nothing special. I mean, a group of members of the Committee on Rural Affairs, together with my colleague, Oudekki Loone, will hand over a legislative proposal, the same one that was made on 19 October 2016. This concerns the terminology changes that pass through § 18 (1) (1) (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U17	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four drafts and four questions. The Management Board, the new Management Board, behaves with them on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 95 members of the Riigikogu have been registered as present; no 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U18	Honourable Riigikogu! Today we have elections to the Riigikogu Board on the agenda. According to § 69 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, the Riigikogu elects the President of the Riigikogu and two vice-chairmen from among its members. In organising elections, the Election Committee of the Republic follows the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Before going to the election procedures, let me briefly introduce you to the election of the Riigikogu Board. First, the President of the Riigikogu is elected. The Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu are elected at the same time after the election of the Chairman of the Riigikogu. A member of the Riigikogu may appoint a candidate. After the election of the President of the Riigikogu, candidates for the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu shall be appointed. The proposed person must give his or her consent to the application. Voting shall be by secret procedure and shall be carried out by means of a ballot paper. Each member of the Riigikogu has one vote in the election of both the Chair and Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The votes shall be taken publicly as soon as the vote is closed. Objections to the organisation of the vote shall be submitted to the selection panel immediately after the end of the vote and on the outcome of the vote, without delay after the result of the vote has been communicated. The result of the election shall be announced immediately after the possible protests have been examined. A candidate who receives more than half of the valid votes shall be elected Chairman of the Riigikogu. If no candidate receives more than half of the valid votes, an additional round shall be held between the two candidates with the highest votes. In the case of equal votes, lots shall be cast. If there is only one candidate on the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu, he will be elected if he receives more votes in favour than against. I will present the voting procedure before the vote is announced. Do the members of the Riigikogu have any questions about what has been said so far? There are no questions. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Chairman of the Riigikogu? Please come to the speaker's desk, Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U19	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Which one of us doesn't know Eiki Nestor? I think that when we elected Eiki Nestor as Chairman of the Riigikogu three years ago, we all knew that he could do very well with the work of the Head of the Riigikogu. But we had to surprise him, he did very, very well. I think we all know how good a compromise seeker and negotiator Eiki is. But because he is as good as he seemed in the previous presidential process, we were very surprised. Eiki Nestor is one of the most ardent advocates of parliamentaryism. It is a great honour for me, a member of the Riigikogu Kalvi Tõll to present Eiki Nestor as the Chairman of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U20	Any other suggestions? There is no further request for nominations. Eiki Nestor, do you agree to apply for the position of Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U21	I agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U22	Please also give your consent in writing! Dear Riigikogu! I will close the list of candidates for the Chairman of the Riigikogu. I declare a break for the appointment of a candidate for the President of the Riigikogu on ballot papers. When the break is over, we will signal with an audible signal, which may be coming very soon.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U23	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready for the election of the President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Commission, not including David Copperfield, are checking the ballot box right here in front of you and closing it with a security seal. Allow me to introduce the voting procedure. The Election Committee gives a voting slip to a member of the Riigikogu. In doing so, I would ask the members of the Riigikogu to present their identity document, i.e. the certificate, passport, ID card or driving licence of a member of the Riigikogu, to receive a ballot paper. A member of the Riigikogu shall sign a ballot paper. Security seal's on right away. As we are currently dealing with one candidate, a member of the Riigikogu will vote for or against him by ticking "Pool" or "Result" at the name of the candidate on the ballot paper. Voting ballots which have both boxes marked or which do not have any boxes marked shall be deemed to be null and void. Voting is organised in the lobby next to the Chamber of the Riigikogu. You're leaving the back door of the voting room. There's a table in the lobby where you can get a ballot paper. After receiving the ballot paper, you will make your decision in the voting booth, you will fold the ballot paper and go to the voting box where, after the ballot paper is stamped, you will personally put your note in the ballot box. If you have accidentally erred or violated the ballot paper and notice it before you put it in the ballot box, you have the right to receive a new ballot paper when you return the corrupt note. Do you have any questions about voting procedures? No, it's not. Only members of the electoral body and persons serving the electoral body may be present in the voting room of members of the Riigikogu during the elections. According to § 87 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, members of the Riigikogu have 30 minutes to vote from the beginning of the voting. It's 10:27 now. I give a signal of the end of the vote, after which I ask all members of the Riigikogu to gather back in the Chamber. I declare voting for the election of the President of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U24	Dear Riigikogu! I declare the vote closed when the President of the Riigikogu is elected. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? No, it's not. Please check the voting box and check it, or the security seal on the voting box has not been tampered with! Okay. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly too! Please, Member of the Election Commission, Meelika Aava!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U25	Honourable Riigikogu! I will make a public check here before you to see if the initial results correspond to reality. I will name the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu and read the votes cast for and against him. Eiki Nestor votes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51. Eiki Nestor votes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22. Notes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24. Notes are invalid because both boxes are marked with a cross or both boxes are left unmarked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U26	Honourable Riigikogu! I formally announce the results of the vote in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. "The Vabariigi Election Commission established the following figures in the counting of votes: Number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list The number of votes cast on the candidate for the President of the Riigikogu is as follows: The number of votes cast by Eiki Nestor "The Protocol was drawn up on 23 March 2017. Signed by the Vice-Chairman of the Election Commission of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, do you have any protests about the determination of the results of the vote? No, it's not. Please complete the decision of the Republic Election Commission. Honourable Riigikogu, I declare the election result in the election of the President of the Riigikogu. "On the basis of subsections 7 (5) and 82 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: declare Eiki Nestor elected President of the Riigikogu." Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I congratulate you and give you the leadership of the sitting. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U27	Honourable Riigikogu, thank you and the strength to work! Election of Vice-Presidents. The election of the Vice-Chairpersons shall in principle be subject to the same procedure as that which we carried out in the election of the Chair. The two candidates who have received the most votes will be vice-chairmen of the Riigikogu. The first vice-chairman shall be the candidate with the highest number of votes and the second shall be the candidate with the highest number of votes received as vice-chairman. An additional round of elections will be held among the equal votes gathered. I shall present the voting procedure before the beginning of the vote. Any questions about what we said so far? It doesn't look like it. Does one of the members of the Riigikogu wish to appoint a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu? Hanno Pevkuri, speaker, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U28	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As we all know, we have recently had the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, who has also been in the Prime Minister's chair and who has done his work with great dignity and well. We have no reason to have a long conversation here. We also have no reason to miss out on Javier's outfit. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I have the honour and pleasure to present Taavi Rõivas as the candidate for Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U29	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U30	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to present such a dignified person as a candidate for the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, who is always very balanced, very calm, very respectful for all of us, members of the Riigikogu and all other people. This person is Enn Frontland. I really hope you're all behind him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U31	Any other suggestions? No, it's not. Taavi Rõivas, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U32	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U33	I would also like to make this known in writing. Enn Eesmaa, do you agree to apply for the post of Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U34	Yes, I am.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U35	I would also like to confirm this in writing. Dear Riigikogu! I will close the list of candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. I declare a break for the appointment of candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Riigikogu to the ballot papers. We'll signal the end of the break with an audible signal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U36	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Riigikogu Election Committee is ready to elect Vice-Chairmen of the Riigikogu. The members of the Commission will first check and seal the ballot box in front of you with a security seal. The voting procedure shall be the same as for the election of the chairman. A member of the Riigikogu shall enter the cross section of the ballot paper at the name of the candidate he or she votes for. Voting ballots which bear the name of more than one candidate or which do not bear the name of any candidate shall be deemed invalid. Any questions? No, it's not. The time allowed for voting is 30 minutes from the beginning of the vote. It's 11:22. We signal the end of the vote, then ask the members of the Riigikogu to gather back in this hall. The vote shall end on 11.52. I declare the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U37	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the vote closed in the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. Please bring the ballot box to the hall! Do the members of the Riigikogu have protests about the organisation of voting? No, it's not. Please check the voting box and check it for tampering with the security seal. Thank you. I would ask the members of the electoral commission to start counting votes. [[The election board reads the votes.]] I would ask the Republic Election Commission to read the votes publicly too! Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U38	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I'm going to make a public check here before you to see if the initial result is real. I will name the candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu in the order that they have been entered on the ballot paper, and I will read the votes they have given. Taavi Clothes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34. Enn Eesmaa: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47. Lashed notes: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-23_U39	Please complete the record of the result of the vote. I will announce the results of the vote on the election of the Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu. The number of members of the Riigikogu included on the list was 101, the number of members of the Riigikogu who received the ballot paper. 97, the number of members of the Riigikogu who took part in the vote. 97, the number of valid ballot papers. 16. Number of votes cast by the candidates for Vice-Chairs of the Riigikogu: Taavi Rõivas Any protests? There are no protests. Please complete the decision of the Republic Election Commission. I'm declaring the election result. "On the basis of subsections 7 (6) and 82 (1) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Election Committee of the Republic decides: declare Enn Eesmaa elected as the first vice-president of the Riigikogu and Taavi Rõivas as the second vice-president of the Riigikogu." Ladies and gentlemen, the new Bureau has been elected. The session of the Riigikogu is closed. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 12.07 p.m.
