ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U1	Hello, honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 7th working week of the VI plenary session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Last year, before the Christmas break, we in the Riigikogu adopted the Act amending the Health Insurance Act and the Social Tax Act, which introduced dental care benefits for people of working age insured. It is now clear that this compensation has not begun to work as expected. Last year, there was a huge confrontation between the Health Insurance Fund and the Dentists' Association in the discussions that broke out before the adoption of this bill, especially on the issue of pharmaceutical prices. To date, only 25% of all Estonian dental care providers offer dental care benefits. The rest do not consider it possible to join under existing conditions. The main reason is unrealistic, i.e. the non-market price caps for dental care services. The 12 members of the Reform Party have a number of questions on this issue. In particular, we would like to know what Minister of Health Ossinovski sees as a possible solution, where he sees a way out of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U3	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U4	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am going to discuss the question to Mr Urve Palo, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, regarding our ID-card disaster. When this security issue related to the ID-card arose in autumn, the public was reassured that the concern was not as great as it has now become. To date, a very large number of people have been completely cut off from digital services. In this regard, we want to know how it is that only 15 000 ID cards can be renewed per day have been allowed to occur. Why is updating security cards so long and what do people have to do in the meantime? Could this situation not have been foreseen? Why was the public misled about reducing the risk of security, who is responsible for all this and what is being done? Seven political group members have signed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U5	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U6	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to Mr Kiisler, Minister for the Environment. The topic is hunting tourism and hunting of feathered game in Estonia. In October of this year, the media reported reports that many hunters have shot large quantities of water birds for entertainment purposes and have not harvested their prey but have left large numbers of hunting birds lying around. It has hurt a great many people's sense of justice and it would be good if this topic could also be discussed here with the Minister for the Environment. We have four questions. First, the revised Hunting Act in 2013 gave landowners unlimited authority to hunt small wild boars in their own country. Unfortunately, according to the law of the same year, small wild game is also included in the list of hunting birds. Has this change justified itself, and why are hunting birds not included in a separate game category? Secondly, why is there no limit in the law to hunting for feathered game? Thirdly, does the Ministry of the Environment not consider it reasonable to set a specific cap on bird hunting when issuing each hunting permit? And last question: how has this problem been solved in other EU Member States, such as our neighbouring countries, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U7	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U8	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Seven members of the Free Party Group have signed one inquiry. As the authors of the inquiry have understood the wisdom of the management of the Riigikogu, the most important reference to the law is always the question of understanding. So I stress: according to § 18 of the Museums Act, a public competition is organised to fill the office of Head of the State Museum. The procedure for the conduct of the contest shall be laid down by the Minister by order. The law does not provide any guidance on how the composition of the competition committee should be accurately balanced. The right assumes that the Minister of Culture will always be able to ensure this balance without these requirements being included in the law. Recently, a competition took place for the director of the Estonian National Museum, and the way in which it was conducted has been received by the public, I would say, incomplete understanding and also criticism. This committee was largely put together by the Chancellor with his subordinates and, according to the inquisitors, put the whole Commission in an awkward position. Did the Minister of Culture make every effort to ensure the transparency of the competition and the independence of the competition committee, in accordance with § 18 of the Museum Act and the Ministerial Regulation? That's what the questioners are asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U9	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U10	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, it is historic every day in this Chamber, but today is particularly historic because our good colleague Ivari Padar sits here with us for the last time. As of tomorrow, he will be a member of the European Parliament. As a result, the Social Democratic Party Group initiates the draft decision of the Riigikogu so that instead of Ivari Padar, Tanel Talve will be part of the Riigikogu's problem committee to develop developments in state reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U11	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U12	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, I will refer an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. The inquiry concerns scientific policy decisions concerning the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics. As a reminder, a task force was set up at the State Chancellery to discuss the consolidation proposed in the report of the Scientific and Development Council and to develop the principles of how it would be best to integrate research institutions. A couple of decisions have been implemented: the observatory of Tõravere and the Estonian Biocentre have been merged with the University of Tartu. It was decided not to join the Estonian Language Institute. What's going on with the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics? This is another research institution from our scientific achievements. What is the scientific policy objective of the accelerated merger of this institution? I remember it's our only research facility that has its own law. We have three questions for the Minister, which we ask kindly and quickly to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U13	Heili Tõnisson as representative of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U14	Honourable Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic will today initiate six draft laws and submit 11 draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, when the bill is being processed. Secondly, the draft law amending the Land Cadastral Act, the Land Cadastral Act and the Spatial Data Act. Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in processing this draft in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Culture Indrek Saar represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law on ratification of the Final Acts of the 26th Congress of the World Postal Union. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels and related amendments to other laws. Sixthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. And now the draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for training and defence capacity building in Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Secondly, 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. Third, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Kingdom United Kingdom'. Fourthly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo'. Fifthly, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the context of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Sixthly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and counselling mission in Afghanistan'. Seventhly, the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation Inherent Resolve by the Estonian State. Eighthly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia'. Ninthly, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali'. Tenth, extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. And by the eleventh, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria'. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Jüri Luik when dealing with these eleven drafts in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U15	Honourable Riigikogu! I have adopted 18 drafts and five inquiries. We will treat them all in accordance with the procedures provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 79 members of the Riigikogu are present. Adoption of the agenda. The Auditor General has made an application to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu and his proposal is to discuss it or not to exchange items on the Wednesday agenda. But no, they've already been changed. That's great, that's great! I shall put to the vote the agenda for the 7th working week of the VI session. Please take a stand and vote. 73 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed. Before we move on to the agenda, good luck to Ivar Padari! I also have one message. In particular, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has requested that a new deadline be set for the submission of draft amendments 513 and that is 9 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U16	Let's go to the questions. First of all, an inquiry by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Külmiki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp and Artur Talvik. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U17	Thank you for your question. I think we have some further confirmation of our assessments. It's not like we've been better able to predict. Just a year ago, when we were talking about these issues, we found many indicators contradictory. Rather, we stressed that the labour market figures were already very good in the Estonian economy: low unemployment, rapid wage growth, ever-increasing number of vacancies, etc. It seemed to us to be a very narrow bottleneck that these restrictions were already ahead of us. Some others could then rather focus on GDP growth, which was then quite small at about 1% per year, and say that there is a need for additional incentives against these indicators. Now, in six months, the picture has turned out to be that all the indicators indicate that we are rather in a strong position in the economic cycle. As far as the global economy is concerned, I think the news has been positive rather than negative over the last six months. We have been accustomed to a very different situation in recent years: in the past we predicted something, but the reality was always a little worse. We were always disappointed. There has now been the opposite: news and development have been more positive than we expected. So optimism is pretty big. All so-called soft indicators, which companies are being questioned for, also show that optimism is currently very high in Estonia and elsewhere. We are, of course, talking about basic assumptions. The risks have not gone away. If we think about geopolitical risks and other risks, they will still persist. It cannot be ruled out that even though base assumptions have improved, rather worse times are ahead. If we also look at our neighborhood, 2017 is the best year. The year 2018 isn't bad, but it's not that good anymore. So we have to assume that, in the long term, the euro area economy will grow a little slower, as well as the global economy and our partners' economies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U18	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Very Honourable Governor of Eesti Pank! The Governor of Eesti Pank, Mr Hansson, has repeatedly drawn the public's attention to this very simple principle that if the economy is doing well, it is the right time to save, and if the economy is doing badly, there may be a need to use these savings. Some time ago, Mr. Governor of Eesti Pank also emphasised this principle at the economic conference 'Business Plan 2018'. He also pointed out to the public that the construction sector in particular was at risk of overheating and that the public sector could contribute to preventing this. All of this can be regulated by holding back a little of the planned investments. The European Structural Funds will be used here in the next few years, i.e. more intensively than in some previous years. It is understandable that the use of these amounts is of a somewhat cyclical nature. But those expenditures that are not covered by Structural Funds money could be postponed. There are good specialists working at Eesti Pank. For example, I dare all my colleagues to advise you to read the analysis by expert Kaspar Oja of how much the government is reviving the economy. It was published in the blog of Eesti Pank on 29 September 2017. There Mr Oja draws attention to the fact that, in the context of Estonia's recent economic performance, these have been reduced by unemployment, growing labour shortages, accelerated economic growth and inflation, and the further stimulation of the economy by means of the state budget is, to put it mildly, incomprehensible. In this blog post Kaspar Oja nicely points out that structural balance estimates may differ considerably from one another. In this Chamber, and in particular in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, we have experienced a large difference between these assessments according to the methodology used. Mr Oja also points out that, in retrospect, these assessments have often proved inaccurate; in the years of rapid economic growth, 'the impact of the budgetary stimulus on the economy is generally underestimated'. This means that the initial information on the economic situation has been, as a rule, worse than the later detailed data. This may then be the case that the government considers the economic situation to be worse than it really is, and then, obviously, it wants to give more impetus. Mr Hansson's views are probably well known to many in this Chamber and can also be read. However, it is our wish that Mr Hansson will present them once again here, because, if we speak of the right principles several times, there is little hope that the government and the members of the honourable government coalition who are in this Chamber will listen to them. There is also a very clear reason for this: according to Article 4 of the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank advises the Government of the Republic on economic policy issues and the Government of the Republic does not make important economic policy decisions without listening to the views of Eesti Pank. So, Mr Hansson, have you advised the Government of the Republic of Estonia on economic policy issues? If not, why does the government make decisions without listening to the views of Eesti Pank or, let us say, fully understanding these views? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U19	Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, answers the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I thank the seven members of the Riigikogu for their questioning! You asked me three questions, I read them, and then I try to answer them. Your first question is as follows: 'Completing a deficit budget is undoubtedly an important economic policy decision. Please describe how the Government of the Republic listened to the position of Eesti Pank when drawing up the budget, and do you think listening means listening? ' I think that Eesti Pank has communicated its views to both the current and previous government, both the current and the previous Minister of Finance. In the spring, Eesti Pank gave the Minister of Finance Sester an opinion on the draft amendment to the State Budget Act, being critical of the relaxed budget rule, which allows the budget to be prepared in a structural deficit of up to 0.5% of GDP. This was our letter on April 28. We have two reasons for this. Firstly, a legislative amendment will allow a deficit budget to be made at the expense of structural surpluses in previous years, even at a time when it could destabilise the economy. Even on a slippery section of the road, we decide to speed up. Secondly, the legislative amendment reduces the motivation of governments to plan a budget with structural surpluses, as this would be a'service' to the next government. Eesti Pank's recommendation was to maintain the annual structural balance requirement in the Act. Secondly, if a country wishes to implement more countercyclical, i.e. economic balancing, fiscal policies, the use of structural deficits should be linked to economic indicators. In addition, we have said that the way this law was amended is to some extent problematic. This is a basic act • one of those drafts that requires at least 51 votes from the Riigikogu to change it. So it's a more serious law than average. I think that the value of all this law lies in the fact that we somehow bind our hands. That doesn't mean we're gonna tie our hands forever, but it shouldn't be too easy to change that law. And it should not be done in a very opportunistic way. If one government easily unties its hands, then the next one comes and does the same thing and if it has been done a few times, the value of this law will be lost. It is our custom to meet the Minister of Finance regularly. These have always been pleasant and polite discussions. One such meeting with Minister of Finance Tõnis took place in August of this year, and later we have discussed informally on several other occasions. In September, I sent Prime Minister Ratas and Finance Minister Tõnis to Eesti Pank's assessments of the state of the Estonian economy. I pointed out that the cyclical state of the economy is such that the economy should not be reinvigorated at the cost of the budget deficit. Recently, we visited the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and Eesti Pank has also expressed an opinion on the economic situation and the role of fiscal policy in several public statements and articles in media publications. So I think it is very difficult to believe that our opinion has been noticed that it has not been noticed. Now, does listening mean listening? I'm sure you'll understand that it's hard to appreciate. In my opinion, it cannot be assumed that everything we say should necessarily be accepted. After all, it is the government's job to take decisions and take responsibility for them. Of course, one might expect to hear with great interest that it is not simply a matter of getting a bird's letter. However, this is very difficult to assess. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the structural deficit is now half as planned at the outset. Whether this slight shift in the positive direction came from partial listening to our recommendations or not, I cannot say. The second question reads: 'What are the main reasons for our economic growth and what is the contribution of the exporting sector? How sustainable can the current growing season be considered? Have you advised the Government of the Republic on these matters as well? ' Estonia's economic growth has picked up mainly due to improvements in the situation in the main partner countries, we are talking here about the neighbourhood, but also in Europe and the world as a whole. Last week, it was reported that the euro area economy grew by 2.5% in the third quarter, i.e. much faster than expected. So Europe is doing relatively well. The Nordic countries are doing well, the Baltics are doing well, and there are countries in the wider world where economic growth has been positively surprised. So the economic performance of the export sector is now better than in the few previous years. And aside from the export of electronic equipment affected by the activities of one of the major companies, the sale of other groups of goods abroad, be it sales units or tons or anything that has grown broadly. In particular, it is positive that after several years export prices have started to rise by increasing sales turnover. You can demand a more expensive price, there is also a higher turnover. Exporters are doing better because our partners are doing better. It stimulates economic growth and otherwise provides relief. It should not surprise anyone that if the partners are doing well, we will do better. As a temporary factor, the development of the oil shale industry and energy production has accelerated economic growth from the low of cheap oil prices. However, Eesti Pank estimates that the current rapid economic growth is not sustainable. If we look back, we will see that over the last 15 or 20 years our economy grew by just over 4% a year. This has been one of the fastest economic growth in Europe, which we experienced with Latvia and Lithuania. In the old days, it was much easier to grow; this 4% came more easily: if you are a poorer country, you will have more room for improvement and untapped potential. In the current situation, where the demographic situation has also deteriorated, we cannot expect that this 5+ percent growth will somehow be sustainable. It is now a cyclical peak. Eesti Pank has analysed and described the state of the economy on the basis of the overall picture and has also highlighted the reasons why such a good state cannot be expected in the future. We believe that in good times we should rather gather reserves. Thirdly, "How do you assess the change in the macroeconomic environment and the resulting risk that the economy as a whole or individual areas may overheat? What advice and when have you given the Government of the Republic on this matter? " Based on various economic indicators, it can be assumed that the Estonian economy has achieved a volume and growth rate that exceeds the level of sustainability. That's what we were talking about. What are these indicators? Firstly, low unemployment, below the so-called natural rate. A large number of job vacancies, this figure is about the same as in 2005, which was the start of the boom. When we talk to entrepreneurs last week, we met with quite a few entrepreneurs, we are about to have a shortage of labour: we do not have a job hand, we do not find employees, etc. Wage pressure and rapid wage growth: wages are currently increasing by around 7% per year. We assumed a year ago that this pace was slowing down a little bit, but it hasn't slowed down, it's more like accelerated. Next: a great sense of security for households and businesses. Inflation in Estonia is over 4%, which is one of the fastest inflation rates in Europe. And then there are different estimates of the so-called GDP gap. So a number of indicators clearly show that we are currently in the high-conjuncture period. A year ago, two years ago, these figures were contradictory. We also talked about this in this Chamber. It's very clear right now. It is inevitable that sooner or later the economy will return to its level of balance. Although there is no boom in the Estonian economy at the moment, this assessment might be a little too much, but this does not mean that there is no danger. In addition, Eesti Pank has paid attention to the possibility that the risk of overheating may primarily concern the construction sector, whose ability to respond to the increase in demand is limited. Both private and public sector orders for the construction sector have increased and polls show an increase in the near future. This could lead to temporary relocation of employment to the construction sector and this cyclical volatility would undermine the long-term growth potential of the economy. We remember the previous boom: a lot of people went to work in the construction sector and stayed there for a few years. Then there was a recession and they lost their jobs. Now, to some extent, we see the same cyclicity returning. I don't think anyone wants to live in a situation where a couple of years go very well and then a couple of years have to be unemployed. Eesti Pank has recommended that the cyclical position of private sector investments be taken into account when planning public investment in order to balance it where possible. Thank you for your questioning. I'd be happy to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U21	Questions for the Governor of Eesti Pank. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Minister Urve Palo introduced a KredEx project on insulation of apartment buildings in this remote control. He claimed that the money had ended and that there was no point in giving more, but it was reasonable to allocate the money to carry out the rental house project. It referred to the fact that there has been a very high price increase in the renovation sector and that there is not enough skilled workers. Can you agree that if we look at the construction sector as a whole, it is as if there aren't enough workers in one part of it, but to build rental houses as there are? Doesn't it seem to you that an investment to heat houses is a sustainable investment? This would save energy and, as a result, people's money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U23	Thank you for your question. In Eesti Pank, we have not analysed individual proposals, individual projects very much. Certainly this should be done, and it would be good if we had a public investment policy structured in such a way that all projects carry out an effective cost-benefit analysis and could finally be said to be cost-effective projects. I'm not familiar with the answers you referred to. But we have said that the state is a big player in the economy, and if we look at its specific investments on the long list, everyone seems to be paying. But this does not mean that all projects should necessarily be launched at once. When one company, one household, operates, the whole economy is not directly affected. But the state means a third, up to 40% of the total economy, and when the country suddenly starts to invest more, it affects the whole economy. We see today that labour costs are growing quite rapidly, with labour shortages very high. However, we do not see that such an additional investment is necessarily catastrophic, we do not say that. But we can assure you that this will not bring any benefits in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U24	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr Ardo Hansson, President of Eesti Pank! With the next question, we will create a new practice in the Riigikogu. In fact, Anne Sulling, a member of the Riigikogu, wishes to ask the President of Eesti Pank a question, but she does not have a vote today. For this reason alone, I will allow him to put his question in writing. I'll ask Ardo Hansson to read it and then answer it. There's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U25	Thank you. It is a great honour to be a part of history! The question is as follows: 'Good Governor of Eesti Pank! Today's R &amp; D expenditure in Estonia amounts to 1.5% of GDP, with a national budget contribution of 0.8% of GDP. The Estonian R &amp; D &amp; I strategy has set the target of raising the share of so-called T&A expenditure to 3% of GDP by 2020. Do you think it is realistic to expect that the R &amp; D expenditure ratio on GDP will reach 3% today, with purely private support, or will an increase in the public budget contribution from 0.8% today be necessary to reach this target? ' Thank you for your question. This is another area in which I have not followed in very detail how in other countries this ratio has been established and developed in terms of public financing and private financing. We have this target set, but I can't tell if this 0.8% is low, medium or high. Of course, if the target is set, the more the country supports the area, the faster the target can be reached, but there is also a need to look at the effectiveness of specific expenditure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U26	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U27	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable Governor of Eesti Pank! You began to draw attention to the dangers and to say more or less the same thing in substance at least six months ago or even earlier. How do you assess what has happened in the European economy or in the global economy during this time? Is this optimism going on, or has it already shrunk? Do you appreciate anything different today than you did six months ago? Or do you rather have further confirmation of your opinions, your doubts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U28	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U29	Thank you, Mr Hansson, for these reasonable answers. But I would encourage you to be less academic in this unreasonable political environment and, for example, to admit that overheating in construction specifically refers to the heating of the hottest point. And that hottest point is the labour force. Today we talked to the National Audit Office about euro money in the National Audit Office. In giving advice to the government, have you talked about the fact that the current overheating of the construction market, I mean the labour market, is amplified by the imminent loss of euro money? Have you explained what will happen in the construction sector and in the labour market more widely if these investment amounts fall away, but there is a situation where during the construction boom the labour force point has become overheated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U30	Thank you for your question. We have certainly talked about the dynamics associated with euro money, about the fact that there will be less in the future and, for this reason, more reserves would actually need to be collected. We will have a worse demographic situation in the future and less euro money, so now it is probably a little easier to draw up the state budget than in five or ten years' time. The workforce is, of course, I totally agree, this basic bottleneck. In this situation, we believe that the use of euro money really amplifies the budgetary stimulus. In fact, the budget consists of three parts: the position of the central government, the second, the local authorities and, third, the euro money. A situation has now arisen where all three factors are moving in the same direction at the same time. At the same time as we have finally started to use euro money more quickly, both local authorities and central government have started to stimulate the economy more. It's a little bit of a cyclic boost.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U31	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U32	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, thank you also for your answers. You used these expressions in your answers that we are in a period of high economics and that the economy is in a strong position in the cycle. This must certainly be accepted. That's why I'm asking you this. The Ministry of Finance's official assessment, which was made in the summer, taking into account the figures for July, which is the basis for the state budget, provided a small structural deficit of 0.25% of GDP. It's probably old by now. Last week, European Commissioner Dombrovskis visited Estonia, and he said that the Commission estimates that we will have a structural deficit much greater than Estonia's official assessment. Eesti Pank has carried out its analysis, which also points to a higher structural deficit. Could you give some clarity before this official Commission forecast arrives at the end of November: what is the structural minus of next year, according to current knowledge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U33	Thank you for your question. In the current situation, it is very difficult to appreciate because the picture is so dynamic, so volatile. This data shall be kept up to date. Economic development has been very rapid. For example, what did we know last November when the current government was formed? Preliminary estimates were available for the third quarter, according to which the economy grew by 1% per year. This estimate has been corrected to 2% in the meantime. Meanwhile, the economy has started to grow from quarter to quarter: 3%, then 4% and now 5.7%. So the estimates are very different and depend on how fresh they are. The more recent the assessment, the greater the so-called positive GDP gap has been estimated. Eesti Pank has not yet formally updated its forecast. We will do this in December, but based on preliminary data, it seems that this positive GDP gap, that is, over its own capabilities, is much larger than we expected. In this situation, we can expect that, since the cyclical position of the economy is now so strong, the European Commission may, in its most recent forecast, estimate that the budget may be in structural deficit. But let's see what they do out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U34	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, Estonia is known to be a member of the euro zone. You will certainly have a pretty good overview of how the European Central Bank feels about what is happening in Estonia and elsewhere in Europe. Can you shed some light on this part of the hall, how the future of Europe and the euro zone, as well as Estonia, will be appreciated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U36	Thank you for your question. These estimates will be made four times a year when the European Central Bank updates its forecast. In the meantime, there will be other estimates. If we distinguish between the real economy and the development of inflation, the figures for the real economy, as I have already mentioned, have been positively surprised. We see that businesses are optimistic, and the growth of the economy by 2.5% is indeed a very rapid growth in the history of the euro area. Unemployment is decreasing. The GDP gap, which we have positive, but the euro area and the European Union as a whole are closing pretty quickly. There are also a number of other indicators that confirm that growth has become much more broad-based: all economies in the euro area are growing without exception. There used to be some that were shrinking. So this picture is positive. But are there any surprises in the other direction? Firstly, we expect that, if unemployment is reduced and labour market tensions are also rising in the euro area, this could be reflected in faster wage growth. We have wage growth of around 7%, while in the euro area as a whole, we have an annual increase of 11⁄2%. This has rather surprised negatively: growth is a little slower than we expected. So there is no wage pressure yet, and this has not yet led to a steady rise in inflation. We see preliminary signs that inflation could rise moderately. Central bankers would like inflation to be slightly higher than it is now: around 1%. So conflicting figures. But I would say that since we are seeing more and more positive signals, the European Central Bank is also more optimistic in believing that sooner or later inflation will start to rise.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U37	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U38	Thank you. We have economic growth, and the forecasts are pretty good. At the same time, productivity growth has stopped and, according to the National Audit Office, productivity has decreased. There's a contradiction here. Perhaps you can unravel it and predict where such a situation could lead us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U39	Thank you for your question. Productivity growth has indeed been a matter of concern in recent years. It must be the main source of prosperity growth and, if not, prosperity cannot grow. I guess we've been looking collectively for ways to increase it. In part, it is already old news that productivity growth has been observed in recent quarters. Perhaps it is also a question of evaluation methodology. In bad times, businesses didn't have jobs to offer to many, but they didn't let go today, but tomorrow it's gonna be hard to recruit the same people again. If you produce less with the same number of people, the productivity figure will decrease. Now we see the opposite trend: employment has not increased significantly in recent months, but turnover and cost have increased. As a result, productivity growth has been observed in recent months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U40	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U41	Thank you, manager. Dear Governor of Eesti Pank, I had a question about your one sentence. You said that it would be easier to draw up a budget now than in five to ten years' time. You argued this by answering the question about euro money. Can you explain this statement: what exactly is going to be more difficult when it comes to drawing up the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U42	Thank you for your question. We are now in a very strong position in terms of the economic cycle. Even when the growth figures were not very good, the structure of economic growth was one that supported the revenue from the state budget. The two most important tax bases are consumption and labour costs: social taxes, income taxes, etc. And as wages increased rapidly, as consumption increased rapidly, these tax bases increased strongly. Even with little growth, we saw relatively good receipts. This trend has persisted to some extent. The second thing is that if we now have an economic growth of 5 to 6%, we expect this figure to be more like 3% in the future. But in the event of faster growth, revenue growth will also be higher. The third reason is the long-term structural factors, in particular the demographic situation. The older the population, the more it needs to be spent on pensions, health care, etc. The fourth factor is the reduction in euro money: the richer we get, the less we get from other countries, the more we have to manage our own money. I have briefly studied this report by the National Audit Office, and it seems to me that the narrative there was quite the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U43	Thank you, Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank! I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas, on behalf of the inquisitors, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U44	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Respectable Governor of Eesti Pank! I came to the speaker's desk mainly to say thank you to the Governor of Eesti Pank for his meaningful answers. One might think that he has said all of this before, whether it was worth bringing the subject back to this hall. I think it made a lot of sense. The more the right ideas are presented in this Chamber, the more likely they will be heard. And as the poet has said, the lizard's path to the stone also leaves a mark or a drop of water burrows a hole in the stone. This way you can believe that this hole will also be carved into the heads of our respected coalition members, and through this hole, the information provided by the Governor of Eesti Pank will eventually reach their heads. I really regret that the core of the current coalition is that parties who hope, as one colleague has rightly said, to profit quickly from the Santa's type of budget in the next elections to the Riigikogu. They have been willing to give up the principles that the previous governments of the Republic of Estonia have had in mind since the beginning of the restoration of independence. But somehow I think that the voters are smarter, that the wisdom of the Estonian people, that the debt is foreign, and that the mouth must be set aside, are still valid. In implementing this lavish behaviour in economic policy, voters will surely at some point give their assessment. The President of the Bank of Estonia will be comforted that we have not suspected that you have not given enough advice and compliance with the law to the current Government of the Republic. We had reason to believe that this counsel had not been adequately taken. But there will be coalitions that can better appreciate the opinion of experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U45	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U46	Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to thank Eesti Pank for its clear messages and, in fact, the Free Party for its questioning. We are always a little embarrassed to bother constitutional institutions with direct questions that strongly relate to the political sphere. At the moment, I can say that my political careers have always been in a very strong sync with the views of Eesti Pank. I don't want to tie them directly to mine, but I've always been monitoring their position and I've been very grateful to them since the 1990s. It cannot be said that this would be the rule in Estonian politics that Eesti Pank's positions will be monitored, but for the first time, state government is quite cardinal in conflict with Eesti Pank's peer reviews. There is also a cardinal contradiction between the questions we have asked the rulers in this hall and the answers we have received. Such arrogant oversight, as has recently been demonstrated by finance ministers and also by the Prime Minister, is completely unprecedented. The same questions remain, but the answer doesn't come to the question. It's just total arrogance. In this sense, however, it is good to inherit from neutral institutions. I can say that today is still a double in that sense, that we also received direct questions and direct answers from the National Audit Office on a subject similar to that of Eesti Pank's expert reviews. This is then the disappearance of euro money, the so-called euro money cycle amplifying movement: there is a great deal of it during the boom and it disappears when all forecasts show that the overall conjunction is starting to deteriorate. If there is anything else to recommend to Eesti Pank, then sober mind not to be disturbed by opposition issues. They're not meant to be bullied. And we also recommend more courage to say directly in an unreasonable political environment. Very academic so and quite a reply allows individual cuts to be cut out of the context and, for example, praise that we are stealing half as much as Eesti Pank also said that everything has gotten better. I understand they're actually talking about different things, but that's what they say in this hall. A structural deficit is not warranted. It's not particularly justified in boom time. It's not going to be any better if you steal half as much for the future as you've ever offered. Directness also benefits from overheating, talking about the boom. Overheating is just as great as overheating in the hottest place, or bottleneck, as Ardo Hansson said. When the labour market is clearly overheated, when construction stops because of it, this is the bottleneck that the economy no longer passes through. And if euro money, which is to a large extent investment money, falls away, then all of this will be amplified during a bad economic economy and it will be a double living for the future. This should also be described as a cyclical change, just as the blog of Eesti Pank has done. It's a pro-cyclical policy in the cube! Part of this policy, this first step, would be avoidable, the euro money itself would not be avoidable. But we also heard today that, in fact, exit strategy, there is no exit strategy for the government. This was the last time that I was ashamed to say it in my time: in 2013, we did an analysis and really linked our strategy with the knowledge that at one point this would not happen. Then there was plenty of time, six to seven years. There's no time now, now it's tangible. This contradiction in the current fiscal policy, which was not there in our time, is touchable. We made budgets with structural surpluses, although euro money was not disappearing and the economic cycle was not what it is now. But thank you for asking me this question and answering it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U47	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiations. Is there anything else Ardo Hansson wants to say? Thank you. This item is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U48	And now the inquiry by Andres Herkel, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsepp, Krista Aru, Monika Haukanõm, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Jüri Adams, Tiina Kangro and Igor Gräzin. Arthur Talvik, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U49	Spain is a democratic state, is a rule of law. And just as in all the Member States of the European Union, we rely on the assumption that the judiciary is independent of political power, that political power does not put pressure on the judiciary in one direction or another. We also have no data that are sometimes appealed to here, as if it were a political process. Of course, the whole democratic world community in Catalonia is following what is happening very closely, which is understandable. As I said, the serious internal crisis, the severe tensions in one of the large Member States of the European Union, one of the great allies of NATO, are worrying us all over Europe. But we will refrain from interfering in an inappropriate way in matters that are and must be the sovereign domestic affairs of a single democratic state. As long as we have no evidence that important democratic principles have been violated, I do not think that any politician in this Chamber or outside this Chamber should do or perform insinuations to that effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U50	Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! I will introduce the inquiry that we have already submitted on 9 October. Compared to the moment the inquiry was made, events in Catalonia have escalated. It could be said that, in addition to the brutal police actions that took place during the referendum on 1 October, there are currently astonishing undemocratic events in Spain that are not appropriate for a Member State of the European Union of the 21st century. In particular, because of the convening of the same referendum, members of the Catalonia Government have been arrested and a request for arrest has been sent to the Belgian State for those who are not in the territory of Catalonia. All the activities of the Catalonia Parliament have been completed. It was a democratically elected parliament that also democratically elected its own government. Prisoners of conscience have emerged in the 21st century European country, if you could say so, because the leaders of the two most well-known associations of citizens for the independence of Catalonia have been imprisoned. These events can be read out here for a long, long time. One of the most recent and very characteristic events is that eight teachers have been invited to be interrogated to discuss violent police attacks with children during the referendum. These are things that have no place in today's democratic Europe of the 21st century. The Spanish central government is currently making completely undemocratic moves. We were encouraged to make this inquiry by the position of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which came on the evening of 1 October, and also by the subsequent positions of our government, which have been They have not dealt with these events from the point of view of the violation of human rights, the trampling of the principle of the right of people to self-determination, and the spreading of extremely dangerous and undemocratic tendencies as a result of the actions of the Spanish central government. The Estonian Government has praised it or given the Spanish Government a 'free hand' and said that it is an internal Spanish matter. This isn't an internal Spanish matter. Such tendencies may spread across Europe, with very serious consequences for the whole of the European Union. So all members of the European Union should... May I extend the speaking time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U51	No, unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure do not allow it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U52	Okay, I have a minute. At the moment we made an inquiry, we focused on 'controversy' or that the territorial integrity of countries was first and foremost regarded as a right to self-determination. We are asking here very clearly whether the Estonian Government has forgotten the principle of the right to self-determination of this principle, which is one of the fundamental principles of Estonian nationalism. And why did the Estonian Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs not condemn this brutal police violence? At this point, one could add to and ask why the Estonian Government has not made any stronger statements in the light of the undemocratic events that are currently taking place in Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U53	Foreign Minister Sven Mikser will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Undoubtedly, it will be worrying for all the European Union and all NATO Member States to face an internal political crisis when serious domestic tensions accumulate there. I believe that we here in Estonia should primarily be interested in the fact that the tensions accumulated over a long period of time, which reached a certain culmination or climax on 1 October, when the leaders of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia conducted a vote which Spain's highest judicial authority had previously declared to be unconstitutional, would ease and find a solution and that this solution would be found within a legal framework. I believe that the early parliamentary elections in Catalonia, convened by the Spanish Government on 21 December, actually provide one way to resolve the situation peacefully or at least move towards it. And I very much hope that all political forces in Spain, including Catalonia, will take advantage of this opportunity. It is extremely important that all political processes take place in democratic countries, respecting democracy and law. I believe that the readiness of all the political forces in Catalonia to take part in the elections on 21 December is one of the prerequisites for Madrid to be able to engage in dialogue with a legitimate partner so that the internal tensions in Spain can be resolved. It is quite understandable that such differences and tensions cannot be overcome overnight, but certainly the political process opens the way for a dialogue that could lead to a solution being recognised by all the parties concerned. I will now go to the questions raised in the inquiry. The first question: 'In which cases the right of self-determination of the peoples is granted to you (I assume that the Estonian government is meant. (S. M.) and in which cases not? What is your assessment of the condition of the Catalans, the Kurds and the Tibetans to what extent their right to self-determination is guaranteed in the present world and what steps are needed to protect these rights? " First of all, the right to self - determination of nations is undoubtedly a very important principle of international law. It is precisely as a general principle of international law that it always applies, as a result of Article 1 (2) of the Charter of the United Nations and the fact that such a right applies, that no Member State of the United Nations disagrees at least as far as I know. However, there is no real consensus in international law about who holds the right to self-determination or, unfortunately, about what that right actually contains. Nor is international law unambiguously fixed, whether at all and if so, in which cases the right to self-determination also gives the right to separate from the country or to form a new country. In fact, the right of the peoples to self-determination and the principle of territorial integrity of the state are not necessarily conflicting principles, since the right to self-determination can also be exercised within territorially integrated countries. In general, separation from the composition of the state is not the primary way to exercise the right to self-determination. In the interests of international peace and security, preference is generally given to "internal self-determination," i.e. autonomy. Separation, the formation of a new state may be justified as a 'last resort'. I would like to mention, for example, the creation of a Kosovo country known in the world's recent history, where separation was based on the argument that it was absolutely necessary, an extreme opportunity to avoid widespread human casualties. The introduction to the inquiry refers to the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Peoples developed by the United Nations not represented by the International NGO. It is certainly important to note here that this Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Nations Non-Represented does not claim that the creation of a state is an absolute right of every ethnic group, but confirms that the right to self-determination includes the right to independent state where the right to self-determination cannot be exercised otherwise (in the English text: 'The right to self-determination includes the right to independent statehood where the exercise of the right to self-determination cannot be implemented without establishing an independent state'). The degree of guaranteeing the right to self-determination cannot therefore be assessed unambiguously; this right has different outputs and forms. However, it is possible and necessary to assess the respect for human rights, which is monitored, among other things, by a number of international organisations. In the case of Catalonia, it is certainly worth noting that the most recent resolution adopted last July by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in Spain does not specifically highlight concerns about the rights of Catalans. When it comes to Tibetans, Kurdishs and other ethnic groups, it was a question of what Estonia is doing to raise the issue of their status and defend their rights. Estonia will certainly discuss the guarantee of the human rights of these peoples and representatives both in bilateral relations with the countries where these ethnic groups live and, for example, in the framework of the human rights dialogue between the European Union and third countries. Question 2: 'How does Estonia contribute to the protection of the rights of nations without a state and to the exercise of their right to self-determination? ' Estonia has been and continues to be a very active supporter of the rights of indigenous peoples. Estonia raises issues related to indigenous peoples, including concerns, in the international arena, especially in the UN Human Rights Council. For example, Estonia was a co-presenter of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in 2007. We have also supported the adoption of resolutions on the rights of indigenous peoples of the United Nations General Assembly. In September of this year, a resolution was adopted with the support of Estonia, which aims to ensure the participation of as many indigenous peoples as possible in all bodies of the United Nations when the meetings and issues concern the indigenous peoples themselves. The Estonian state also supports the organisation of events related to indigenous peoples through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, both financially and morally. We have been doing this since 1996. In May this year, the European Union adopted Council conclusions on indigenous peoples and the European Union has included the rights of indigenous peoples among its priorities in the UN Human Rights Forums. Estonia has also actively supported this process. Protecting the rights of indigenous peoples was also one of the topics that was discussed only last month during the meeting of the Working Group on Human Rights held in Tartu under the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Question 3: "Do you think it is right that the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Nations be an internationally recognised document? How have you worked for this, or will you do so in the future? " I have already referred to this document in answer to the first question. As has been said, the Unrepresented Nations is an international non-governmental organisation and the Universal Declaration of the Rights of the Nations adopted by them is already an internationally recognised document. To a large extent, this document contains principles that are also in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Charter of the United Nations, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Thus, it can be said that international law already contains most of these important principles. I think that, above all, it is not so much a question of adopting new documents as of how to better guarantee human rights around the world. This is definitely an integral part of diplomatic work, including diplomatic work carried out by the Estonian state. And the last question, to which the questioner referred in his opening statement. On 1 October, unfortunate events took place in Catalonia. On the same day, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs emphasised in its reply to the press inquiry that Estonia supports Spain's sovereignty, constitutional order and territorial integrity. I, too, said on my own behalf that both Estonia and the European Union support the territorial integrity of Spain, but we want the constitutional order of Spain to be guaranteed without violence. I also said that the situation is worrying and I hope that in the coming days the parties will find a way to dialogue. In fact, you are well aware of the recent Question Time of the Riigikogu, the exchange of views with members of your party on this issue, that both support for the constitutional order, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Spain, as well as concerns about the tensions that have arisen and the desire to find a way out of this situation, I expressed already on 1 October. Neither of these principles has changed despite developments in the intervening period. The support of the Estonian state to its close ally Spain has certainly not changed, so that they can find a solution to this tense situation within the framework of their constitution. And it is certainly Estonia's wish that the solution be legal, respectful of democratic principles and non-violent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U55	Questions for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U56	Thank you. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! The elections on 21 December will take place in a situation where the Spanish central government has arrested political opponents, shut down eight members of the Catalonia government, several of whom are also leaders of their political parties. Their current head of government has basically gone into exile. Do you really call democratic elections where political opponents have been imprisoned during the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U57	Thank you. I think that early parliamentary elections are the way to bring this process back into the framework of legality. I am pleased that, as of now, all the major political forces in Catalonia have declared their willingness to take part in these elections. The Spanish central government spokesperson has also said that all politicians who have not been convicted of a crime can stand as candidates in elections. I assume this also concerns those who have been charged with breaking the law but who have not been convicted by that time. As far as public sources are concerned, there is now a major debate between the political forces of Catalonia on whether it is more sensible for political parties to apply with separate lists to realise their political objectives, or whether electoral alliances or blocs should be established. I assume that if the elections launched by the Spanish central government do not boycott any political forces, they will result in the choice of Catalonia, as the authorities of the autonomous region, as the partner with which the Spanish central government must also engage in dialogue in order to resolve this crisis. For example, the permanent President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, has rightly said that it is certainly preferable to use the power of arguments to resolve such a conflict rather than to use force as an argument, but to the capitals of Europe, just as Madrid is, in fact, a partner for the capitals of the democratic world. And Madrid, in turn, needs to find a way to engage in dialogue with Barcelona.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U58	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Arresting the main leaders of the opposition or Catalan independence forces is not a good start to really take this process forward in full compliance with the self-determination of the peoples. What would you call all that implemented by the Spanish central government in the case of Catalans? What can they do now, or where can they go? Their main leaders have been arrested and an election is coming. What about the independence of the Catalans and the right to self-determination in the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U60	Thank you for that question. How international law deals with the right to self-determination in general and also the right to self-determination in conjunction with the principle of another important international law, or territorial integrity, I have already spoken in my introductory answers to the questions asked in writing. In fact, it is always good to rely on authority. One of Estonia's most well-known and well-known specialists in international law, Professor Mälksoo has quite thoroughly addressed these issues of self-determination in a very good article recently published. It stresses that in the recent past, self-determination in the creation of countries has been addressed mainly in the context of decolonisation. In 1966 two legally binding human rights pacts were adopted at the UN: the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. I also referred to them in the previous speech. Both highlight in their first article the right of all nations to self - determination. But it would be wrong to believe that, although these pacts affirm the right of peoples to self-determination, it automatically means the right of all nations to create their own state and separate themselves from the old state. Professor Mälksoo also says that the doctrine in international law has given an advantage to the territorial integrity of existing countries, subjecting them to the right of self-determination of peoples. This means, in fact, that self-determination is realised, particularly in democratic countries, through autonomy. It is certainly also possible to initiate legislative changes, including constitutional changes, in order to take steps that may not be possible now in the context of the Constitution. But we cannot and do not approve as a country to which our own sovereignty and integrity are essential, of actions which are contrary to the constitution of one of our allies and our partner in the European Union. I think that the conscious call and the conscious progress made with this vote, which had previously been declared unconstitutional by the Court, was certainly one step that contributed to the escalation of these tensions. And in an attempt to be constructive, without interfering in the sovereign affairs of the countries, I hope here that these elections will be conducted in such a way as to guarantee the opportunity of all political forces to participate in them, and that, as a result of these elections, the authorities will be set up, which the Spanish central government also sees as a legitimate partner for dialogue. I do not want to speculate, and I do not think it would be appropriate for me to speculate here on how this dialogue will then lead to a discussion on the extent to which the autonomy of Catalonia will be extended or the future status of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia. I cannot speculate either on who, i.e. what kind of power is successful in these elections, because it is clear that the Catalonia society, not to mention the Spanish society as a whole, is quite written and can be said to be divided on this issue. The picture is not black and white. There are certainly different motives among those who would like to see Catalonia's national independence: there are those whose primary consideration is economic, and there are those who are motivated by other emotions. If you put the question of belonging to the European Union on this issue, it could affect the opinion of a very large number of people. Of course, among the Unionists, among those who are a significant part of society and who support Spanish unity and Catalonia's membership of Spain, there may also be people who, despite supporting Spanish unity, would like to see the limits of Catalonia's autonomy increased. But this is a question that Spain must resolve within its own constitution. And I also think that excessive external intervention may not, in fact, be very constructive in helping to achieve a peaceful and legal solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U61	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U62	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Motivated by one of your recent responses, I will return to this October 1st. On that day, I believe that a very large part of the Estonian public was disturbed by the statement made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which had no reference to any particular person and in which police violence had not been condemned. A moment ago, you said that you made a statement on the same day in which you condemned this violence. Are we talking about two different statements, or where did that express your position? The media did not bring your position to the public at least that day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U63	Thank you. Yes, in Estonia, as elsewhere, media is often called the fourth power over which politicians do not really control. I hope that I am not the only exception who does not actually have control over the way the headlines are born in the press, nor about the time at which, and even the date on which, one or another statement is printed. You can read this view of me in the paper edition of the 2 October Eesti Päevaleht. It says that the Estonian Foreign Minister, Sven Mikser, who is currently holding the Presidency of the European Union, said last night, on 1 October, that Catalonia's events are worrying and that the European Union will undoubtedly follow developments closely. From there, I've already quoted. So this statement of mine really happened on the evening of 1 October. However, as has been said, it does not reject or reject the current position of the Estonian state regarding respect for Spanish sovereignty and constitutional order. One of these thoughts reached online media on the same day and the other only on the next day's paper. If I had control over the functioning of the press, which I, thank God, do not have as a politician, then perhaps this time-lapse would not have happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U64	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U65	Honourable waitress! You are paying very great attention and putting great hopes in the forthcoming extraordinary elections, and you think it will be very nice for these elections to take place. In both Catalonia and Crimea, the particular features of the elections are that in both cases the arrest of leaders is involved. The members of the Catalonia government and those who stand in separatist positions obviously cannot participate in the elections and those who should be actively on the side of separatism are threatened by prison. Do you really think that such Franco's policy towards Catalonia could, under these circumstances, become something other than a farce?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U66	Thank you. First of all, I call on all Members, but of course everyone else, to avoid such parallels, whether between Franco's dictatorship and the present Spain or, as is sometimes heard from the press, between the Soviet Empire of its time and the present democratic Spain. These parallels are not appropriate; they are certainly unfair to Spain. Of course, I hope that the elections will bring this serious crisis back within the framework of legitimacy, democracy and, if you like, diplomacy. It's the best chance I'll ever see today. And I think that no one else should hope for anything else if it is in the interests of Estonia. I'm sure it's important. Now, as far as those people who have been prosecuted and who have been arrested during the criminal investigation are concerned, I am aware that the prosecutor's office has accused these people of unlawful acts. They have not been arrested because of their worldview or political beliefs, but because of their actions. But, of course, it is important that the trial be conducted according to the best democratic practices. Of course, it is always possible in Europe if all national courts have passed and the accused disagrees with or dissatisfied with the decision, to turn to the European Court of Human Rights to guarantee their rights. Without knowing all the fines of Spanish national law, I can only rely on statements available from public sources. According to them, all those who have not been the subject of a conviction by the court will be able to take part in the elections. So my hope is that these elections will indeed be a step towards a way out of this very worrying tense situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U67	§ 140 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu gives the President of the Riigikogu the opportunity to give a member of the Riigikogu an opportunity to ask an oral question. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U68	Thank you. Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, let us not really discuss Russia's role in the history of the wishes of independence in Catalonia. In fact, the police wouldn't want to speak about violence when the biggest ally is in the most trouble, but a little time has passed. Do we have any knowledge of any investigations or police violence there? Do we know there was a breach? And do we have any doubts about the trial? It's like you just said that you're hoping that'. In the language of diplomacy, it means that there are any doubts that a trial is not fair. So do we now have a precise overview of the police and courts in the European countries, and there have been any problems there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U69	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, no further questions appear to you. Thank you. Members of the Riigikogu, everyone can now negotiate. Artur Talvik has made his wish first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U70	Good vice chairman! Good minister! It was kind of hard watching the Foreign Minister answer our questions here. On the one hand, I understand that this is a diplomatically very difficult situation. On the other hand, I could give the Foreign Minister at least 20 possibilities or sentences to describe this situation diplomatically in such a way that we, as representatives of the Estonian state, should not be ashamed of our positions in the future, so that we should not forget the self-determination of peoples and other rights, so that we should not forget that we are still living in a democratic Europe. I've been asked why I speak or the Free Party speaks so much about Catalonia. For me personally, this is a great deal about Estonia. We talked about the right to self-determination, the basic principle of self-determination. On the other hand, perhaps what is going in Catalonia or Spain is now being decided on which direction Europe is going. If this crisis is not resolved sensibly, the European Union may begin to break down more thoroughly. Or, if we really justify such undemocratic steps by the Spanish central government, it could lead to a Europe that the Socialist Minister for Foreign Affairs would certainly not want to see. I would like to remind you that the Catalans represent an open, open and European area in Spain. The Social Democrats have been busy defending animals here in the booth, or fighting to shut up fur farms, for example. Let me remind you that the Catalans were the first in Spain to stand up for ending the bullfight and to end it, not to mention other European values. We cannot leave such a people representing true European values alone with their wishes, their will and their self-determination. We are now in a situation where the democratically elected leaders of the Catalans have indeed been imprisoned. According to Spanish law, they may be sentenced to a maximum of 30 years in prison, which is completely disproportionate. According to Estonian law, you must be a serious double killer so that such a paragraph would come upon you at all. We see school teachers being called into question because they dealt with the violence shown by the police and seen by all Catalan children in schools in their time. We are actually helping to escalate the situation or to make it even more difficult by not giving up our position. We don't say bravely that you guys are our allies, but this is a mess. Please don't do this! We are already concerned about Europe. We're worried about what's gonna happen to us all. This is what we, as the Free Party, also want to remind the Estonian Government of. When the members of the government, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs, tell us about the European values of this panel, let them stand up for these European values, without taking into account double standards, that one place is spoken the same way and the other side is spoken the other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U71	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U72	I speak on behalf of myself and the heirs. Artur's story earlier reminded me of this famous Stanislavsky sentence. I mean, we had a foreign minister here, we listened to him, and we wanted to yell 'Their blood! 'Cause nothing the Foreign Minister said sounded credible. He said we had a very big problem, a heartache, and we're trying to help. But you can see that this person doesn't have a heartache, he really doesn't care, because our position is blown up by the welfare and satisfaction of a small country that has grown up for a moment. It's okay, you have to talk a little bit about problems, about this and that, because then we're gonna look big. But the worst story is what Artur told me, and what I had right now inside was when it turns out I can't even ask the right questions anymore. You know what's the worst? Indifference, that is, when the heart hurts for nothing. This sentence on sovereignty and home affairs is ridiculous. How long do we live according to the 1975 Helsinki Final Document signed by Brezhnev? So now we have this territorial integrity. Brezhnev is gone! At the same time, the academician shows possible conceptual options for Mälksoo, but does not take a stand. I mean, you can take it this way, you can take it that way, you can take it the third way. Everything is possible in international law, but it is not the legal and legal conclusion that it was now served here. We are not interfering with the internal affairs of a democratic state. But what's interesting is that we're interfering in the internal affairs of a democratic India and we're telling you to give us back our shipguards! In fact, India is clearly much more sovereign to us than Spain. Spain is in NATO and our sovereignty is somewhat limited, because we are allies. India isn't, but that's where we're going in with our sovereignty, because there's kind of a problem. It's that we're gonna blow through police violence completely cold... There is no comparison with the Soviet Union, but indeed, even the numbers and methods coincide. Remember Tbilisi 1989, Shotha Rusthavel Square, what happened there. What's the difference? True, there were also two tanks, now there weren't, but the fact that manifestations in a democratic country can be spread out by force is a principle. If we dare not even say that dear friends, boys, you went wrong, pull back, frankly, if I were Spanish, I would say that the devil, friends like Estonia in my Spain, do not need if you do not come to the rescue of the critical situation and tell us what we have to do. This is now the place where the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Estonia should have stood up and said that there is a problem here, it is a European problem, Spain, it is also your problem, I am currently holding the Presidency and we are beginning to think about how to talk about it. I mean, it wasn't the Spanish police beating up because of the bull. Its aim was to prevent possible negotiations with the Catalans so that these negotiations would not take place. And what, then, is the crime they have committed? They said, "Talk to us! ' And this is where Estonia said that we don't care. Whatever it is, you can't change the mentality: if it's okay, it doesn't matter. But for everyone else in this Chamber, I say that you know what, friends, in politics at all, although in foreign policy it is sometimes difficult, but this time, perhaps in foreign policy too, we must dare to do good. Thank you. [[Someone's applauding in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U73	Ladies and gentlemen, There are no more requests for speech; let us consider this debate to be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U74	And now, after a hammer hit, everyone has the opportunity to sign up for a speech in a free microphone. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U75	Something more boring for a change in exciting subjects. We heard here in a question that the Estonian state is doing quite well. We're about to be 100 years old, and it's been over a quarter of a century since our independence was restored. We have a good financial situation, and we also have economic growth - at least in the short term - is doing well. In short, we live better and better. But in all of this, we have a major problem with the accessibility and consideration of people with special needs. This is largely a matter of empathy and understanding, but on the other hand, a place of learning. If Urve Palo, Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, recently in this briefing, answered my colleague's questions about the accessibility regulation, so that it would not be necessary, in fact, enough, as stated in the construction code, it could be accepted in itself. That would be very good, but I think Minister Palo understands perfectly that if a person in a wheelchair gets to the stairs or ladder, he won't climb up there. However, when a person comes to talk to him or to the ministry with a mental disability or a hidden disability, he does not know how to act. He doesn't know how to deal with that person if that person ever gets to him, because the Ministry is actually full of barriers. This is also what we see, for example, in the case of the new Ministry of the United States, which did not involve people with special needs. I went to see it myself, and I wouldn't be able to get through to the receptionist without help. Another example. In order to improve access to work for people with special needs, the Ministry of Social Affairs concluded a good cooperation agreement with the parties involved in the labour capacity reform so that the public sector would employ 1000 people with special needs per year for five years. I also went to give an overview of last year's activities and realized that this issue had not been addressed at all. This subject is not in our focus. The third major issue is accessibility to information on the example of national broadcasting. The deaf have a very big problem here. The public broadcasters decide which programmes are accompanied by subtitles to which they do not have the option to choose for themselves. I think that instead of talking about money for subtitles, you should think about accessibility right from the start as exactly the same basic thing as the paycheck. In conclusion, accessibility and consideration should become the norm to be addressed at the outset. Here too, in 2012, we ratified the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Article 9 of which lays down precisely this accessibility requirement. In addition, I consider Article 20 to be important, which highlights independent mobility. Personal mobility means that people can decide for themselves what they are doing or where they are going at the moment. Finally, to whom am I going to address this? Everyone. In particular, the public sector, which should set an example for our society as a whole, so that everything is as accessible as possible, including the Office of the President of the Republic, ministries, state agencies, national broadcasting, as well as everyone else who plays an important role in valuing the lives of our people. Accessibility and consideration must become the norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U76	Thank you, Jüri Jaanson! Next, we'll wait for the speech chair, Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U77	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people in this room, in their office, on duty, in meeting with other ambassadors! My approach is somewhat based on the self-determination of the nations that we encountered here in questioning and discussing the question. But let's look back 100 years ago. The right of the people to self-determination was what the Estonians demanded, which was demanded by all the other peoples who lived here in Estonia, and which became the Republic of Estonia. I appeal to you as the chairman of the 'Estonian Republic 100' Support Group and ask all representatives of the people to attend the extraordinary and festive sitting of the Riigikogu on 28 November at 13 o'clock. Why is this day so special to us, and why should present ambassadors be present? According to the old calendar, which was valid until 31 January 1918, this date, which is now November 28th, November 15. At four o'clock that day, the first democratically elected representatives of the Estonian people gathered here in Toompea White Hall. It was our country council, or more famously called Earth Day. At four o'clock, an emergency meeting began in the White House. Everything was very well prepared. There were three decisions read by Jaan Tõnisson. Why was everything so well prepared? Because 3,000 red-armed men had gathered in the square in front of this castle, all demanding the rapid dispersal of the land day. The most important of these three decisions was the birth act of the Republic of Estonia. The birth act of the Republic of Estonia was read out in the White Hall on 28 November at 4 a.m. according to the current calendar. The fact that the country was not immediately declared was due to the difficult circumstances of that time. At that point, this was not done, and later, when the Republic worked, it was decided that the country's birthday would be celebrated on 24 February 1918. But the birth of the country was first publicly read here in the White Hall of this house. So I ask you very much to come to celebrate this 100-year-old event. a to the formal sitting on 28 November. This declaration is handed over to the current highest state authority in Estonia by the Youth Council elected this summer. This is the act where the past comes into contact with the present and the future. Young people who are now active tell us their desire to see the Republic of Estonia in the next tens of years and certainly in the next hundreds of years. So my request to all members of the Riigikogu is that everyone who has the time and opportunity whose heart calls and commands should come to the Riigikogu on 28 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-06_U78	Thank you, Krista Aru! There's no more calls. Repeating is the mother of wisdom. I would like to remind you that on 28 November at 13 o'clock there will be a formal sitting here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu with the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, There's no more calls. I wish you a beautiful evening and a safe journey home. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00 in this very hall. Closure of the sitting at 4.58 p.m.
