ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Checking for presence. 42 members of the Riigikogu were registered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U2	In the Question Hour, the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu is responsible for the Prime Minister's role, the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and the Minister of the Environment Siim Kiisler. Seven respondents registered yesterday, so I'll give you one more question. The first questioner is Toomas Kivimägi and the first answer is the Prime Minister of Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please, Toomas Stone Mountain!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister for Justice, today also in the role of the Prime Minister. On the initiative of one of your coalition partners, the promise to introduce free travel rights on county lines is clearly driven by local elections, both in the coalition agreement and next year's draft state budget. There is nothing wrong with allocating extra funding to rural routes in itself, but my question is why you do not trust local authorities. Why don't you trust the county public transport centres to decide the money themselves, but you say in advance that the money can only be used to pay the ticket price? To what extent is this principle consistent with the principle of equal treatment? In part, transport within the county is also provided by commercial lines, such as Elron. Do you have any plans to pay commercial companies for the intra-terrestrial ride?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. After all, the aim of the administrative reform is not to redeploy the borders of municipalities, but to enable communities to make decisions on local development on a sustainable and more comprehensive basis. That is why Parliament has approved amendments to the Public Transport Act, which should implement the network of public transport centres across the country. It will be a short period of time after the reform, but I hope that the communities will manage. The organisation of regional public transport issues should then be the responsibility of the public transport centres. As far as pricing is concerned, according to the law adopted by the legislator, specific fares are fixed by law by the Director-General of the Road Administration on the proposal of the regional public transport centres. This is, in fact, the method of review of legality that the Director-General of the Road Administration applies as a representative of the State. In itself, however, the local community, which has its own representatives at the public transport centre, is best aware of what the most sensible network should be. Administrative reform will also lead to pressure to clean up the network and change the demographic situation. It is certainly up to the community to make the right decisions as to whether ticket prices should be changed or the quality of the journey, including the purchase of buses, in a given region.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U5	Toomas Kivimägi, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U6	Thank you, Minister. I fully share the principle that the core issue of regional public transport is a renewed network of routes, especially because of administrative reform, on the other hand, quality and, thirdly, of course, sustainability. I read your comment on the ERR portal, which revealed that you also support the principle that decisions on the use of funds should be made by county public transport centres. The Prime Minister has also said the same in his interview with the ERR at the end of September, considering that if we want to treat local governments as partners, the use of this money should be decided by local authorities and public transport centres. At the same time, the Minister for Economic Affairs has clearly said that this money goes on free travel to the county lines. My question is this: are your statements due to the desire to save your ideological face before the electorate, or is it doomed to failure again? I hope you have enough spine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U7	Thank you for your strength. Of course, it is clear that local elections have ended and people have elected their representatives to local councils who are able to make rational decisions. That requires an agreement, because we have to agree across the county. However, we need to understand that the central problem now is not even the different trajectory of the lines, but the density of the network. If you don't get a bus, it doesn't matter if it's for money or not for money. We've got a lot of places where the bus goes over a day or once a day. I think this is actually a matter of local community choices. The government, on a proposal from the Minister for Public Administration, has approved the fundamental sectoral changes of the whole package, which will be prepared in the near future. The amendments provide for the transfer of tasks and resources to local authorities. The immediate need for administrative reform is for local governments to grow in the public sector, to the detriment of the central government. The method of rural public transport has been chosen simply because the scale of the networks has been taken into account. A clearer method would have been to transfer this to the municipal income base, but this is only possible in regions where the entire county is a single municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U8	And now a very specific question from a vigilante who did not wish to do so yesterday. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U9	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! I'm asking you now, as IRL's leading minister and member of the government, because you're also doing the Prime Minister's job. I would, of course, like to congratulate you on saying that if you don't take a bus, there's no free way to make sense, or exactly how you had that sentence. But actually, I wanted to ask you what IRL's position for free stuff is. Do you support free public transport and free distribution at all or do you not support it? I understand the Central Party in the government has said yes, there will be free public transport. I haven't heard the IRL say, no, it's not coming. Do you support it or do you not support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U10	Thank you. The way things are free is that we have to consider the public interest. The public interest in this government initiative, which increased public transport subsidies in the state budget project, is that life must be habitable across the country. This means, in fact, the sharing of basic infrastructure services. I think that this is not a category of political slogans, but is an elementary duty of care of the state. With regard to increasing the public transport dose of regional routes by more than EUR 10 million next year, the view of IRL is that it is the most competent decision-making body of local communities in the public transport centre. If they wish to introduce travel incentives, as provided for in the Public Transport Act, and to lower the cost of transport, to tighten up the network or to develop it spatially, these choices must be made by the community through the democratic mandate that arose in the local elections. But we need to understand that public interest is defined in a very distant perspective. We jointly did a reform of free higher education, and it was a very important national reform. In general, it is clear that where the market operates, the state does not have to intervene. It is important to ensure uniform treatment, which is a very important starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U11	I will conclude on this issue. I also remind the members of the Riigikogu that this is a Question Hour of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U12	Next comes the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, asks Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U13	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I was contacted by people who are worried about joining the school of fine arts because they want to be added to the state gymnasium. Many years ago, plans have been made to move into a house at the intersection of Pärnu road and Liivalaia. There were supposed to be 900 students originally there, but this figure was reduced to 700. Now, quite recently, there has been a plan to merge this school with the state gymnasium. It would double the number of students and turn the school into one big combinate. The connection price is also that there is no possibility to build a gym, nor can the interconnecting schools be separate in their corners, as space use becomes very dense. Where has such a plan come from, how sure is it, and why is it so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U14	Thank you, good questioner! I'd love to tell you about building a school of fine arts that's been the subject of our republic all along. In fact, a little longer, because when we go back to the time when the developments of the music academy were discussed, moving away from the music academy and completing the new house meant that the music high school was about to follow. The move to central music high school and the subject of his new face have been under discussion for more than 20 years. It is sad to note that we have still owed the art people and music people the art academy and also the music academy hall are still being completed. Now the so-called FAQ project, according to which the people of art and music would ever be able to use a dignified school, has returned with it. In the case of a sand garden object, we can talk about what has been the changes in recent years and what has happened this year. In the meantime, large cuts were made, but still this two-thirty-percent cut has been abandoned and the project has been restored in its original volume. Surely the music people, some of whom also contacted you, are very pleased that the initial plans, which were very ambitious, have now come back. Now the question is whether the part of the state gymnasium with the cost of music and art is planned for the same territory. This part is not 'welded', as you said, but is planned for more efficient use of all resources. It doesn't take away anything from the art people, but on the contrary, it gives the people of art and music an extra space.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U15	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U16	Thank you. I was actually asking about the state gymnasium, not about the school of fine arts. However, it is not true that he does not take anything away. He takes away the gym from them, forces people to walk across Tallinn's most dense intersection somewhere in the gym and takes away the space. You said that the budget had been restored earlier, but in fact it has not been restored. The creation of another seven hundred students with a state upper secondary school has been welded. I spoke to your party partner about Tallinn City Government, who said that they have absolutely no more state upper secondary schools in Tallinn, especially from downtown schools. They'd be happy to hand them over to the state, but there's no need for it, it's a pure ministerial project. Am I right to understand that this so-called extra money is actually intended to be added to the state gymnasium with 700 or more students, the result of which is that there are more than 3,000 school students in Tallinn in one quarter if you take more schools next to you? Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U17	Thank you. A member of the Riigikogu certainly does not misunderstand anything. Just a little bit to help me understand and specify. Actually, we're talking about a school of fine arts. We are talking about a school that has been allocated a lot of resources. If we recall for a moment the sums for which we renew and repair schools, the money that is counted for the School of Arts is very large. This project will eventually receive almost EUR 50 million. Several higher education institutions have not even dreamed of investing so much. These are whole packages of measures that go to this school complex. What's the add-on? Let's discuss the gym. When we look at this beautiful art school project, we see that there is also our ballet school, which we are very proud of. A number of dance halls and exercise rooms are planned in the respective section. There's no point in planning a normal, typical gym. The location of the school is such that there are several schools near it with regular gymnasts. If a large fitness centre is needed, this solution has also been discussed, taking into account the gyms of nearby schools. It should also be borne in mind that the people of the ballet school have a slightly different sport activity. As for the people of the music school, they have rather asked for a swimming pool for their sports activities, which is planned there. Why is a state gymnasium with an art and music costume planned? It is precisely because the senior secondary school and the upper secondary school of Georg Ots must enable them to complete secondary education. In this way, we will be able to expand the same secondary education. It has been discussed, as you certainly know very well, that the study options could include crusting, cultural management, music management, etc. All of this is allowed by the state gymnasium.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U18	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary! I also ask about the state gymnasium, but about Jõhvi State gymnasium. As we know, s. In May, just before the end of the school year, Jõhvi Head of State High School, who was very successful and successful, the children were satisfied, although some parents were not satisfied as usual. Leaving was the result of an agreement between the parties. Neither party commented on this was an agreement, but the Ministry announced that by August at the latest there would certainly be a new director in office. Now that several months have passed, will Jõhvi State High School have a new director? If not, what is the reason? Has the competition at least taken place? What about the management of Jõhvi State Upper Secondary School?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U20	Thank you, good questioner! Today, just before we came here, we discussed the situation of the school network and looked through the schools where the directors are, say, not yet in place or where the performers are working. One of them is Jõhvi Gymnasium. We reminded each other in our house that this competition had to be announced. The reason why this process has remained is because Jõhvi's high school currently works. Those people who are dealing with directors and school networks at the Ministry of Education and Research have just been a little more busy with some other schools that have major problems. In the meantime, we have sent people who usually deal with such matters to serve in schools, such as the schools of Marymaa and Georg Ots or some other. The competitions in these schools have therefore come forward. Since things are peaceful in Jõhvi, it is backwards. We are most likely to announce a competition in the coming days during this month. Usually we announce competitions or there is an exchange of directors if for some reason a person has left by mutual agreement or if he or she retires. In general, directors remain in public schools, but also in municipal schools for a very long time. There have been discussions on this subject, as you know, in recent weeks. Our experience shows that directors who have worked for 20 to 30 years, who take the heart of their communities, are still highly respected. So we'd rather see stability. We hope that the next director will remain in office for a long time and hold the community there together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U22	Answers Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler, asked Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U23	Thank you. Good minister! The Nursipal is known to be a training field for the armed forces. The Free Party does not at all dispute the existence of this need, but it is totally unacceptable to us how the Environmental Board deals with it there. Indeed, the environmental impact assessment had not yet come up with the decision to dispose of a hundred hectares and the deforestation took place very quickly. Now a situation has arisen where the country has absolutely different opportunities than a private operator, who still has to wait very long for environmental impact assessments and cannot act until they have come out. Why are such unacceptable steps allowed under your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U24	Thank you. Everyone must certainly be treated equally, including public authorities seeking authorisation for deforestation. In all cases, the legislation in force must be taken into account. The Environmental Board has carried out a very thorough analysis of whether all legislation was complied with by the registration of forest notifications which essentially authorised deforestation. In this registration decision, nine pages have been analysed and it has been clearly stated that the legislation has been complied with. The same applies to all others, whether they are a private company, a private owner or anyone else. The basis for this decision is the order of the Government of the Republic to form the Nursipalu exercise field from 2008 and the exercise field development plan. This development plan has been subject to a strategic environmental impact assessment, it has also been completed, and in this respect it can be said that environmental impacts have been assessed. True, according to the additional decision of the parish council, there is a plan for the development of the entire complex that more than 400 hectares of land will still be used for deforestation. However, I stress that no further environmental impact assessment was needed to take this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U25	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U26	Well, that's a good answer. Thank you for such a good answer. If an environmental impact assessment has still been carried out for the whole area, then it must also be awaited as a whole. You've got a good point. The second question is that the deforestation decision was also issued on an exceptionally fast schedule. While forest owners usually wait several weeks for a clear-cut decision, the decision was taken within a day. In an interview with 'AK', the Environmental Board official claimed that the Ministry of Defence was so-called pressured to make such quick decisions. Are you familiar with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U27	Thank you. I'm sorry I haven't seen this interview myself. I know that the Defence Forces previously asked the Environment Board for an opinion and consulted them that, if they submit such a forest statement, would it be in accordance with the law and other legislation? In this sense, this analysis was done before by the Environmental Board and they really knew that such applications would come, i.e. they were essentially prepared for it. Now, as to how quickly the deforestation process, i.e. specifically its activities, should be asked by the Ministry of Defence how fast the Defence Forces have these activities. It's very hard for me to appreciate. Clearly, the Defence Forces need this field for some activity. For what exactly, I certainly don't know the details of that. One time condition was that the Environmental Board set out, namely that no deforestation would be carried out in the spring or summer in order to ensure peace for birds and animals during this period. They were granted permission for the autumn and winter. So, to sum up, if you ask how such a quick decision was made, then probably because the preliminary work had been done very thoroughly, the consultations had taken place and everything had been essentially negotiated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! For a long time Nursipalu has also been about whether and when a nature reserve will be formed. Can you specify or share information on the state of the situation? Is it possible that this nature reserve will be formed before new deforestation operations begin?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U30	First of all, deforestation. They are not planned for the area in which the nature reserve is formed. It is planned where the nature reserve will come and where the valuable habitats will be. Deforestation works are not carried out in permanent habitats or in future nature reserves. According to the current plan, it is always difficult for the government to make such promises until next spring. That's how I make a promise from the squirrels that next spring we'll get to it, the graph is like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U32	Answers the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, asks Yoko Alender. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Every child has the right to education according to the Constitution. The education of children with special needs is special; it requires more support, attention and time. However, the Minister recently brought to the Riigikogu a draft amendment to the PGS, with which we are in a situation where the working peace of teaching these children is disturbed. The Ministry is already organising information days to introduce the new system, while parents and specialists are those who are affected by it in everyday life and are irritated and desperate. We saw this recently at the Commission meeting. Why do you want to implement changes that everyone affected by these decisions is questioning their readiness and therefore their effectiveness and will enforce the law in two months' time? We have little time to even process, not to mention the sector's readiness for these changes. We were told in the Commission that no child should be subjected to human trials. I'm asking for an answer! Why are we in such a hurry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U34	Thank you very much for the theme. I will now be able to repeat in this Question Time what is planned to achieve with this draft, exactly how this bill was born and what was the course of our discussions in the Committee on Culture on Monday. First of all, I am very sorry that there has been a lot of strange noise about this draft. We are trying to resolve the situation that has been going on since 2011. Local authorities have been concerned. They consider that the State could be more helpful in supporting services. This is the problem the bill is trying to solve. Not only have we planned additional resources, but we want to support local authorities in particular. Even now, more than 80% of all children with special needs go to regular schools, mostly not in special classes or small classes. These children need support at some point during their studies, and that is what local authorities have talked about most. Those children who study in special schools are around 2% of the total number of students, and there is only one explanation in this draft. The only thing that really changes is that all children living in a particular community are the responsibility of the local government. The state and the private sector can find different solutions in cooperation with local authorities, be they small classes, special schools or something else. However, the content of the draft itself is that we want to come to the financial support of finding a solution to the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U35	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U36	Thank you. I do not agree that there is a strange noise around the subject. The first suspicion I had when I heard about this bill was that it didn't work that way. The concern of parents actually confirms what you have repeatedly emphasised that municipalities are different and schools are different. Money is always a deficit, but it is clear that the misallocation of another resource, i.e. specialists, increases differences. Instead, my supplementary question comes about the Income Tax Act, because it exacerbates the problem. How did you come up with sharing this resource with a tax percentage? This means that Tallinn, which has a smaller problem, gets twice as much. This slogan, that we restore the revenue base, could be filled through a fine-tuning fund that would harmonise availability. Right now, there's a huge risk written on it. Resolving special needs through the percentage of income tax is, in fact, an increase in differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U37	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U38	Thank you. First of all, one more comment on the draft. This draft and the discussion around it do not change the principles of inclusive education. This draft deals, as a good questioner very well knows, with those issues that have been under discussion for several years. This draft does not worsen the situation of 70-80% of children who are currently in mainstream school or in special classes. The resentment that came out on Monday, or the problem that parents have, is two-sided. First of all, they are parents who say that children with different needs need support do not fit into the normal class, because they violate the class rhythm when they do not receive support services. This is exactly the kind of support we come with with this bill. What opportunities are we talking about? We are not only talking about an extra 21 million, but also about the fact that we still have 10 million to adapt the classrooms. In addition, local authorities have 15 million to help special schools. These opportunities are all presented. It is precisely to solve this problem that we want to come to the aid of this bill. The question is not whether this bill changes something radically, but is designed to support the "existing" picture. Whether or not our society is ready for inclusive education is the right topic for discussion. Unfortunately, this does not concern this bill, but the theme setting is correct. What Mr Jürgen Ligi is talking about, saying that we have brought support to local authorities in terms of both education support and support for children with special needs, based solely on the percentage of income tax, is not true. All discussions at the Ministry of Finance have been about how to balance the income tax share and what to do at the same time as the grant fund. It has been discussed all the times, and discussions will certainly continue in order to pay constant attention to the Equalisation Fund in addition to the increase in the percentage of income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U39	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U40	Thank you. By thus channeling public money into the education of children with special needs through a tax percentage, you will increase the differences between schools. Moreover, Tallinn, as the richest already, was notorious for not supporting schools for children with special needs, just as it could become a lion's share of support in the future. Why do you propose an inequality-enhancing measure for those who already have fewer choices than others?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U41	Of the 21 million euros granted to the Riigikogu, 18 million are directed at the same way that you described it in support of special children. This allocation of 18 million has been proposed to the Riigikogu on the basis of EHIS data. Local authorities will be supported on the basis of how the advisory committee has found that children need to be excluded or enhanced support, as well as by the number of school pupils. Yes, the local authorities have also proposed that perhaps you should consider where the children are written in. However, since the ability of schools to deal with children with special needs is different, we have chosen a model based on EHIS data. It allows funds to be channelled to the municipalities and schools where children with special needs are studying, and therefore it is the municipalities with more children who receive more support. And there is another reason for this: if there should be local authorities in special schools or schools for special children, where 2% of children are studying, making some kind of extra investment or giving them more support. That is why we have directed this money directly to these local authorities. The entire 18 million have been given along with each student, depending on where the child is now studying. The picture is very different. There are municipalities that have sent children to special classes, there are municipalities that have directed them to special schools, and there are municipalities that have placed a great deal of emphasis on one learning and are ready to deal with it. And indeed, there are also those municipalities that have less dealt with it. This is the resource and training that we are trying to help them with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U42	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U43	Answers Minister for the Environment Siim Kiisler, asks Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Reading next year's budget, a small thought came up: something has gone badly in the habitats of the Pärnu river basin and it is now necessary to restore them. There will be EUR 3 million for next year. Maybe you'll light up what's happened there. What's the 3 million planned for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U45	Thank you. We are in the process of a major project called 'Rebuilding the habitats of the Pärnu river basin'. In the Natura area, we have set targets for restoring the habitats of protected habitat types and species in the Pärnu River and its tributaries. The total cost of this project is 15 million euros and 85% of this money comes from the Cohesion Fund and 15% is co-financed by the State. Part of the project has already been carried out, and some €1.3 million of the land has been purchased, as well as other payments for half a million euros. Next year's activities include opening the barrier of Vihtra and Jändja and the beginning of the construction works for opening the barrier of Sindi. However, larger disbursements under this project will come in 2019 and 2020, each with more than EUR 4 million. Of course, since this is a project of euro money, precise amounts may shift over the years. But the deadline, when everything has to be completed, is the current assumption in 2021.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U46	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Next year, yes, the volumes will probably not be very large yet, but they will grow in the future. It is the belief that all of this will also lead to certain economic constraints in these regions. Maybe you'll tell me if there are any restrictions. How will economic activity develop there in Natura areas due to these constraints?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U48	Thank you. The Natura site has long been established and the activities of this project are in order to implement Natura conservation objectives. One big question about this project, namely the opening of the Sindi barrier, has been the possibility of swimming for the Sinti people. There has been a debate on this. One of the reasons why this project has been somewhat delayed is that the municipality must issue a building permit. The municipality, however, said that they would do so if an outdoor swimming pool was established in the framework of this project. This is where the subject on which I previously answered Mr Talvik's question comes into play. The law states when an environmental impact assessment is needed, and in this case the law states very clearly that if a large volume of surface area has to be removed from the bottom of the river to establish an outdoor swimming pool, it is clear that an environmental impact assessment is needed. And this is being done now because the law specifically states that it has to be done. This will address the concerns of the local government, which have been the main point of dispute in the implementation of this project.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U49	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U50	Good minister! Large investments are made on the Pärnu River or the river basin. The fishermen of the Pärnu River complain that there is a pretty large-scale illegal fishing going on there. They have also said that the city of Pärnu is polluting the Pärnu River quite properly. Will such aspects also be addressed or will euro money be distributed from the Ministry simply to do some things?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U51	Surely attention will be paid to this whole project, after all, to restoring habitats. If there is now specific information about pollution and illegal fishing, then both the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate would certainly be grateful for any hint. It is often said very generally: you see, there are bad things going on there. There is certainly a breach of law that cannot be detected, but if specific cases are known, we would be grateful for the information so that the Environmental Inspectorate can react immediately. If there is as precise information as possible about where, when and what action is taking place, then we are always very grateful for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U53	The Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, responsible for the Prime Minister's duties, asks Külmiki Kübarsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U54	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister Reinsalu in the role of Prime Minister! In your answer to the first question, you argued that the local community, or even the local government, can best see what are the specific problems and what solutions might be. In fact, there are now misunderstandings in the government again, who is then the initiator. Maybe the same topic, taking the fast Internet to the country. On Monday, a meeting took place with Minister Palo. He said very clearly to the local authorities: you yourself are responsible for wanting fast Internet painting and you have started looking for solutions, I only started working in the spring, and therefore you are not entitled to any help from the state. What is the concept of the government coalition? Now that the administrative reform has taken place and the municipalities are therefore bigger, are they more capable of solving local problems themselves? Will the state support them in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U55	I think that while the right to the Internet is not formally enshrined as a fundamental right in the Constitution, it is a fundamental right in today's digitalised society and living environment, where the state must certainly realise its commitment to support. The coalition agreement of the current government states that it has decided to allocate EUR 20 million to support the broadband network. Now, the right thing to do is that, at the beginning of the year, the government endorsed the principles of the state, which relate precisely to the support for regional projects, which would also be based on the ownership of local authorities. This took place in a situation where private operators had not yet shown an interest in contributing to this in the light of the new directive. However, I have at my disposal the latest information from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Indeed, a number of private operators, such as Telia and Elektrilevi, have now expressed their willingness to develop their network across the country. Certainly, the government has a choice to make the most rational use of taxpayers' money in such a way that its leverage effect is greatest. When we talk about the financial scale, this country's support of EUR 20 million will only cover a fraction of what is really needed to ensure minimum broadband services for final consumers. It should also be taken into account that the price does not become excessively burdensome for the final consumer. The government will discuss it tomorrow at their office meeting. I can assure you here that the reasoning changed because the market situation changed in autumn. I think it would be irresponsible if the Minister for Economic Affairs had another opinion. Once the market situation has changed, the government will also have to change its position flexibly. It is regrettable that all of this has led to communication disruptions and false expectations among local communities. A dignified dialogue is certainly important here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U56	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U57	Thank you. It's very positive that you'll be discussing this in your office tomorrow. Are you also discussing very clearly that Minister Palo is not going over the subject and maybe it is time for him to look for more application in this Chamber? If the Minister has not understood what are the possibilities of granting European Union state aid if mistrust has been created by the representatives of the municipality itself saying that you have created a mistrust of the state, then how can we support you? We've been working on this project for years. In the spring you say very clearly that yes, we will support you, but then suddenly there will be a change of heart. In addition, we can debate whether Elektrilev is a private company or whether it is a public undertaking. There are so many questions here, to which no answers came at the Monday meeting. Will the government also discuss whether Minister Palo is competent enough to resolve this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U58	Thank you. A quote once had perhaps been given to a British Prime Minister, which sounded something like someone should resign when he was aware of the facts, but he made a decision which would have to be reviewed later. In this case too, none of the people in this Chamber were aware of changes in the behavioural attitudes of entrepreneurs. Now this information is at the disposal of the government. And what I'm saying is, I'm sure the government has an elementary duty of care. This support measure will not be sufficient under any circumstances for over-diversified land. Nulle should be put on this amount if the Internet is built with the support of national central government money. Consequently, the main logic is that, if market participants are able to act, the government can mitigate the market failure by means of this support measure, based on competitive neutrality. Tomorrow, the government will certainly consider these matters before making a decision. I would like to emphasise once again that the decision taken at the beginning of the year or the principle of how to share resources have been followed by very legitimate and positive action by local communities. Indeed, it is regrettable that a situation has now arisen in which the government can rethink its position. But the question is not who develops the network, but the starting point is that the Internet is available across the country. We must be guided by the way in which the service can be brought about as much as possible with the support of the government. And it has to be said that, although electricity distribution is a national company, its commercial logic, as I referred to, is also based on the principle of the new European Union directive, according to which the owner of the electricity network must allow the building of a communication network on the electricity poles on its network. This is certainly one of the factors that will also motivate the business logic of this company and make it possible to participate in the competition when it is announced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U59	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U60	Thank you. We have not been able to find out about your weather view and your position on the first question, which concerned another connection, the bus connection. Tell me if you support frequent absence of bus connections and free access through the fact that often there is no bus connection just as Kadri Simson wants, or if you believe in a good bus connection for a moderate fee. Which weather view do you represent in the government? What could finally be the decision of this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U61	There's a connection to the Internet. Even if someone said the good questioner was missing, I guess he didn't, he asked for it. In order for life to be livable throughout the territory of the country, if the whole population lived in Tallinn, there would be no more Estonian people, and this should not be overlooked, it is important to have access to the Internet and, without doubt, to public transport. So I definitely prefer public transport and I also prefer the available internet. The state must intervene and address market failures. If people in the settlement simply go too far to buy their own bus, we do not come to a luxury country like this, unfortunately, because we are not Dubai, we cannot find oil here, so, in the same way, on the basis of market logic, it is not possible for the people there to pay themselves to an Internet service provider who would be making a mistake for them. As far as the provision of broadband services to end users is concerned, there will certainly be a fee. But I also want to take down the fears that the questioner might have. Indeed, in the event that a private operator starts to provide a service, the unwarranted return on charging the price of that service is certainly subject to the supervision of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U63	The Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Repsil, must answer the question of Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U64	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Estonian school mathematics has long and glorious traditions. Aksel Telgmaa, Olaf Prinits or Elmar Etverk are the korphys, whom every Estonian teacher remembers and appreciates even later. I had never heard before that Estonian school mathematics was very different from school mathematics in other countries and from mathematics at all. A few days ago, however, one commentary from Innove's mathematics specialist read that a person who had completed education elsewhere may not know or understand the solutions and symbols used in Estonian school mathematics. You probably know that I am referring to the case of Mario Pizzolante, where a person who studied in Uruguay, the United States of America and Estonian higher education institutions received unfairly few points for his state examination. He challenged that score and gained 13 points. What can be done to prevent such cases from happening in the future? What conclusions does Innove draw from all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U65	Thank you, good questioner! If you don't mind, I'll start with the numbers. In 2017, 7700 exams were passed on the mathematics exam. The appeals were submitted in 28 of these nine exam scores remained unchanged, in nine cases the points were raised and ten were lowered. Why did I start with this kind of data? Because you can see from here that the proportion of those who even come to argue or appeal is very small. In the case of these appeals, there are also such, say, discussion points each year, and this time it was very colorful. What has Innove looked at in turn? Our exams are appreciated, as a good questioner of course knows very well, teachers. They come together from different regions and are also provided with guidance for their assessment, according to which the score is a proportion of both the correct result and the calculation process. The reason why the calculation is taken into account is that its monitoring is usually in favour of the examiner. If the answer is wrong, but the multi-course calculation shows that somewhere in the meantime the reasoning of the examiner has been correct, it is still considered worthy of certain points. The situation in which the assessment of the result and the process of achieving the right response was carried out to the detriment of the examiner is quite unique. What can Innove learn from this? That there's something more to learn from everything. There has also been a meeting on how to introduce such holidays to evaluators and in which cases a positive assessment of different solutions has also been carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U66	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U67	Honorable Minister! I'm sure you know as well as I do one reason why there is so little appeal. School teachers themselves do not recommend presenting them and warn students to listen, so you may lose a few more from your current points. This attitude has unfortunately spread, and complaints are not encouraged. This whole procedure is a little bit, I'd say, dark and slightly transparent. In the present case, it was also pointed out that Innoves does not issue a copy of the test paper. It has been challenged by the Data Protection Inspectorate and said that the examination work is the mental property of the person who passed the exam and could belong to him, i.e. he could get it with him. What about the copies from now on? Will they be issued, and will this procedure change in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U68	Thank you. Indeed, there have been discussions on the provision of a copy as long as we have had the state exams in this form. The reasons why the works have not been returned so far are, as we know very well, different from how many alternative tasks can be created and how the tasks are used in the catch-ups and ending with a number of other moments. Indeed, it is now clear that it is not enough to get acquainted with your work on the ground in this form. The right to a copy of his work has been legally analysed and the examiner has such a right. Innove has also promised to make corrections to this effect so that in the future, in the coming years, a person will also be able to get a copy of his work, not only to get acquainted with it on the spot. This, of course, means a slightly different design of the exams. We need to think about how much and how we can develop alternative tasks for the exam. There will be costs, but we have already taken this into account. Now for what we talked about at the beginning of the discussion. How many cases have occurred, such as this year, when the appeal leads to such a high score difference? There have been almost no such cases in the past. In most cases, there have been only a few points of dispute. The results with a greater difference and, let's say, appeal reviews have usually caused a great deal of fuss, and the next exams always take such things into account. In the case of state examinations, of course, the fact that the tasks of the various years vary considerably, even though they are all based on the national curriculum. It is also for universities every year and always, say, a big topic...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U69	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U70	... whether and to what extent the results of the various years are comparable. This is also something that is constantly being dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U71	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I agree with the previous speaker. I was a little surprised by this kind of discriminatory attitude towards the examiner if he wanted to get acquainted with his work and protect himself. I understand from what you're saying that this system has been re-examined or reviewed and that the rights of the examiners will certainly go within their normal framework. Can you tell me, though, is there an analysis of the possibility of taking both a narrow and a broad mathematics exam? Has this system been successful, and is this a sensible way forward? Or do we need to admit in society that this is why mathematics knowledge narrows in a broader sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U73	Thank you, good questioner! The issue of state examinations will certainly come back to the discussion of the Committee on Culture sooner or later, because we still have 1 and 20 points at a time. We need to talk to the end of society about what we expect from a graduate and what we expect from a graduate in upper secondary school. I'm sure that's the subject of discussion. At the same time, there is also a need for discussion of narrow and broad mathematics. The use of narrow and wide range of mathematics has its advantages, but there are also bottlenecks. It is clear that universities base their calculation of mathematics results on a broad range of mathematics. This creates a situation in which a young person may have made his or her choice over the years and is able to take the exam only in narrow mathematics. Unless he learns more on his own, based on a certain level of support, he's got opportunities. Surely this is not a good signal, because we want to be a smart IT state where technology develops. Mathematics is crucial to technological progress. Yesterday, too, at the meeting with the Technical University, the idea remained that we definitely need to review the subject of the state mathematics examination again, as well as the views of universities on this issue. How to find excellence and, at the same time, common achievements in one exam is a challenge in every country, including Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U74	Thanks, everybody! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U75	Honourable Riigikogu, attention! Rein Randver will be a member of the Riigikogu today, 8 November, due to the end of Ivari Padar's term of office in the Riigikogu and his membership of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U76	Let's hear Rein Randver's oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U78	Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? I don't want that. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session. Attention! Detailed agenda. At the request of the Auditor General, the fourth and fifth items have been changed in order on the agenda of today's sitting. The current fourth item, the Auditor General's review, has been moved to the fifth item and the first reading of the draft decision is the fourth item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U79	We are going to the Wednesday agenda: second reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 489. Commission waitress Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of how the Committee on Social Affairs has prepared this draft for a second reading. We did so at four meetings: 17, 19 and 23 October and 6 November. Perhaps the most comprehensive meeting was on 17 October when we involved the various parties affected by this draft. In particular, SOS Children's Village took part in the Social Welfare and Health Department of the Estonian Association of Children and Youth Welfare Institutions, the Association of Estonian Cities, the Social Welfare and Health Department of the Tallinn Social and Health Board, the Estonian Association of Rural Municipalities, the Social Insurance Board, the Estonian Replacement Home Labour Association and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs. I will give you a brief overview of the issues that gave rise to the most debate in the Commission. We certainly discussed the educational level of people directly exposed to children in the area of substitution care at the most. The current law states that neither a teacher nor a family elder need to have a corresponding higher education. The parent or family parent's assistant must be at least 18 years old, the family parent must be at least 25 years old. The Association of Workers of the Estonian Replacement Home proposed that people who are in direct contact with children should be in higher education, but the Association of Estonian Children's and Youth Welfare Institutions considered that the current conditions were sufficient. This means that a person must be at least 18 years of age and have completed the necessary refresher training. This refresher training has so far been a 160-hour social education course for people who are involved in pedagogy, 160-hour pedagogy training for people who are involved in the social field, and 160+160 hours of refresher training for people who are not involved in pedagogy or social activities. Under the new law, 160 hours of study should be completed in one year by all workers who are in direct contact with children. In addition, 160 hours of training is intended for people who require specific training, for example, if it is known that a child with special needs or a child in substitution care will come to the institution. If the institution specialises in children with special needs, staff will receive training in this regard. We also discussed at length when this refresher training should have been completed. The draft law originally stated that the person who was recruited must already have completed further training, but the service providers suggested that the necessary training could be completed for a maximum period of one year after the person was recruited. The Committee on Social Affairs accepted this amendment. We also discussed that the bill stated that a teacher, a family elder, and a family elder should have worked with their children for at least a year before being recruited. As a result of the discussion, we decided that we would take out the requirement that this period should be at least one year. It remained that these people simply need to have experience working with children. A total of 17 proposals were made to amend the draft. They were discussed and voted through, and we decided by consensus to support them all. The Committee on Social Affairs also decided by consensus to close the second reading and to send the draft to the third reading by 15 November and then to hold a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U81	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Liina Kersna! I would also like to thank the Commission for its very comprehensive and good explanatory statement for its second reading. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. 17 amendments were tabled for draft 489 and are all from the lead committee. Let's go through these: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17. The second reading of the draft 498 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U82	Second reading of the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and in connection with the amendment of other laws 498. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Andrei Novikov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U83	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Finance Committee on 24 October and representatives of the Ministry of Finance took part in the discussion. Briefly, so much of the content of the draft proposal that it transposes the new version of the PSD. In view of the development of the market, the scope of the Directive has, in some respects, remained too vague and general, or is simply outdated. The aim of the Directive is to equalise the operating conditions of new firms operating on the market and entering the market in order to facilitate the expansion of the market for new payment services in a context of fair competition and to ensure a high level of consumer protection for users of payment services throughout the Union. The security risks associated with electronic payments will be reduced when the bill becomes a law. By the deadline of 11 October, the members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees did not submit any proposals. The Committee on Finance decided to make eight amendments tabled in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and stakeholders involved in the preparation of the draft. The Financial Supervision Authority, Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Eesti Pank and the payment service provider TavexWise AS gave feedback in the form of opinions and suggestions. Explanations of the amendments can be found in the list of amendments. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 8 November and the second reading closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U84	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Committee on Economic Affairs to the fact that they could learn from the Committee on Social Affairs how to write explanatory notes. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Eight amendments were tabled for draft 498, all from the lead committee. Let's go through these: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. The second reading of the draft 498 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U85	Second reading of the draft Act amending the State Budget Act 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U86	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs before the second reading on 24 October and 6 November. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees by 25 October. Thus, on 6 November, we have taken the following decisions: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by Wednesday, 8 November, to finish the second reading and to set five working days for the amendments, i.e. 15 November at 5.15 p.m. All the decisions were consensual. I have nothing to say about the debate in the Commission, because it did not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U87	Questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The second reading of Bill 510 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U88	The next item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2016" submitted by the Government of the Republic. The initiator's waitress is Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U89	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Before you is a summary report of the state's financial year, which summarises the revenue and expenditure of the state's activities and the financial situation at the end of 2016. Overall, we can say that the Estonian economy grew by 1.6% in 2016. For the people of Estonia, the year was a positive one again. Employment increased and average wages increased by more than 7%. The tax burden on labour fell because a tax refund system was introduced for workers on lower wages, which will be replaced by a differentiated tax-free income of EUR 500 the following year. Pension increases and better social security contributions also led to an increase in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The increase in family benefits was started and in 2018 the amount of benefits will reach the level of more than €6,000 per year, for example for a family of three children. Prices increased marginally by 0.1%. The increase in alcohol and tobacco excise duties initiated by the 2014 Coalition continued at a faster pace. The defence costs were kept to an agreed level. The summary report for the financial year of the State has been compiled on the basis of the accounts of all public sector entities. It shall consist of an annual report and financial statements and shall include data on the state, local government, government and public sector as a whole. The activity report provides an overview of the country's most important economic indicators and the results of the fields in 2016, as well as a summary of the results of ministries, the State Chancellery and constitutional institutions. As of 31 December 2016, the State had assets worth a total of EUR 16,5 billion, most of which are fixed assets. Compared to the previous period, the value of the assets increased by EUR 171 million. The national reserves also increased: the stabilisation reserve increased by 1.9% and the liquidity reserve increased by 4.9%. The total liabilities amounted to EUR 7.4 billion and increased by EUR 338 million compared to the previous period. By contrast, loan liabilities decreased by EUR 15.9 million over the year and amounted to EUR 2.9 billion at the end of the year. Last year, the state budget received revenue of EUR 8.58 billion, or 98.9% of what was originally planned. Tax revenue, together with the taxes to be passed on, amounted to EUR 7.53 billion, or 10.4% of the budget. Non-tax revenues were received by EUR 913.3 million, i.e. 79.6% of the planned year. Non-tax revenues were below budget expectations, accounting for 75.2% of the expected revenue. However, the volume of external support increased by 221.2 million euros, i.e. 58.8%, compared to 2015. Expenditure and investment in 2016 amounted to EUR 8.55 billion. Compared to 2015, costs were increased by EUR 210.1 million. The country's main focus was on social protection, amounting to EUR 3 billion, with an increase of 8.1% over the year. The main part of this was pensions, which were paid out at EUR 1.68 billion, or 6.3% more than in 2015. National defence costs increased by 12.4%. State roads and hubs were renovated for 144.6 million euros. Special equipment for defence purposes was acquired in the amount of EUR 47,1 million. The National Audit Office's report is included in the summary report for the financial year, which the Auditor General gives a more detailed overview of. In short, according to the control report submitted by the National Audit Office, the annual accounts of the state for 2016 are correct in a substantial part and the expenditure was made in accordance with the State Budget Act. As in previous years, the National Audit Office made proposals in its report on the financial management of the state, recommending a review of the legal bases and principles of the management of state reserves. First, the National Audit Office recommended the development of principles for determining the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve. We are of the opinion that the current practice of increasing the stabilisation reserve and the financial risk management rules are still appropriate at the moment, ensuring, together with other financial resources from the State, that sufficient funds are available for foreseeable emergency situations as well. The National Audit Office also once again recommended that the regulation concerning the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and unemployment insurance funds be amended [editor's specification, word answered mixedly]. The State Budget Act, which was amended for this purpose in the context of which all relevant substantive issues were discussed, allows the Ministry of Finance to direct the use of the funds of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, taking into account other state funds, based on the principle of a group account, but the same right is not explicitly provided for in the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. This issue was also discussed by the Special Committee on State Budget Control, from which we were able to initiate the alignment of legislation. We'll do it soon. Here I repeat that the rules and principles of national cash flow management ensure that the level of liquidity is assessed on a daily basis, that liquidity risks are mitigated and that all payments made by the parties to the national group account are made in due time. There have been no cases where the volume of the liquid financial resources of the State and the volume of credit lines immediately used would have been below the target level established. Honourable Riigikogu! In conclusion, the Estonian state's finances and accounts were in good order at the end of 2016 and the government will continue to follow the principles of prudent fiscal policy in the future. Please confirm the country's 2016 summary report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U90	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U91	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, Yeah, I'm sure we'll confirm the report, but there are some questions before that. The section on the use of external instruments in the report has dealt with the use of cohesion policy instruments and has been slightly looked at in the future. Does the Ministry of Finance have a strategy for the next financial period when Estonia will receive less money from cohesion funds? Do you have a well-designed strategy on how to get rid of dependence on European Union funds? If, during the financial period starting in 2021, we become a net beneficiary, what will the ratio be: how much will we get and how much will we pay to the European Union budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U92	Thank you for your question. I think it is a little early today to talk about how much we are losing, whether the European Union is reducing so much or not. We don't really know that. We know that the sums are likely to decrease. We have a more precise orientation for the allocation of the European Union's Structural Funds, or cohesion funding, in the middle of next year. Then we will also see which areas are the priorities. We know that the priorities for the new financing period are defence, the fight against terrorism, migration. These issues are very acutely on the agenda. All of this decrease can be up to 40%, but it can be much lower. So, first of all, we are speculating a little when we are talking about a dramatic reduction. Secondly, I do not think that it will be a major accident if European Union subsidies are reduced. Their goal was to build a structure here and not to hang on to these subsidies until the end of time. All ministries are aware that these resources will ever decrease, and they are preparing for this. This strategy will also be completed over time, but first we need to know exactly what amounts we are talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U93	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The National Audit Office has asked whether it is reasonable to draw up the state budget on an activity-based basis. The Ministry of Education and Research presented its budget as a pilot project on an activity-based basis and does not consider it to be very effective. At the same time, it has been argued that the Ministry of Finance is still very firm on the course to prepare the entire state budget on an activity-based basis. What does the Ministry of Finance still rely on in the very firm belief that the state budget must be drawn up on an activity-based basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U95	Thank you for your question. The transition to an activity-based state budget is the result of the current State Budget Act, which was preceded by a number of in-depth analyses. I am reading a few things here, it is perhaps understandable that this is not simply a thought in someone's head, which was also carried out over the head: the report of the Special Committee of the Riigikogu on Fiscal Policy on possible changes in the Estonian parliamentary system, the OECD reports on 'Towards more state governance' and 'Promotion of cross-governmental strategic capacity and cross-border e-services', the audit of the National Audit Office 'The Government of the Republic's activities in assessing the impact of its work and reporting on the results'. The most important principles of ABB are set out in the explanatory memorandum to the Activity-Based Budgeting Act (ABB) in 2014. These topics have been discussed several times in depth in the Riigikogu and the opinion of the National Audit Office remains somewhat incomprehensible. But everyone has the right to have an opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U96	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U97	Thank you. I would advise you, Mr Finance Minister, not to read the answers on paper or even this text of speech so much. Then you'll understand what you're saying. However, I did not understand your answer that it was somehow as early as it was to deal with a fact such as the reduction in budget support for the European Union. Four or five years ago, I felt that the time had come. I dealt with this because the exit strategy is an extremely critical issue. Our free, untied budget will probably represent a percentage expressed as a two-digit figure. What have you done during your term of office to ensure that this exit strategy ensures a painless transition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U98	The other day, when I was Minister of Finance, I called in the vice chancellors and the chancellor and asked if we had a plan to leave. As I said before, the Ministry of Finance and other ministries are working on this issue. Yeah, there's no really big plan. After all, this is actually part of the budgeting work, and this amount is likely to be around 150 million a year if the budget of the European Union is reduced by 30%. This is one and a half percent, and this is not the amount that the state would not be able to manage without. As I have already said, the purpose of allocating euro money is not to support all kinds of activities indefinitely. The aim is to build the necessary structure, infrastructure, so that further added value can be produced. That is the main objective. We may be too dependent on and accustomed to European Union subsidies. It has become a separate area of activity: many people who could actually produce added value are dealing with this bureaucracy. This is certainly necessary now, because this money must be received and used effectively, and it will be of great benefit. But I will say it once again: it is a normal course of action that we will not once again be net recipients.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U99	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U100	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The report states in its explanatory memorandum that in 2016, the Ministry of Defence acquired ammunition for EUR 89 million, with a budget of EUR 40 million for the purchase of ammunition for 2017. It is now known that next year's budget for the purchase of ammunition under IRL has been reduced to 10 million. This is four times less than it was in 2017. Is this a quadruple reduction compared to this year the measure to improve the structural balance of the budget that you have shown off here? You've stressed that you took the structural minus from 0.4% to 0.2%. Is that what you achieved by cutting your defense costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U101	Thank you, Aivar! It was very interesting for me to listen to this question. It seems as if the aim is to spend money simply because then we can report that we spent it. But you know that's not a purpose. If it is found that no investments or purchases can be made in any year, it makes sense to increase certain amounts to the area where they are actually used. That's my answer. The claim that the IRL is taking money out of the field of defence was such a strange title and story that it is even strange to comment here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U102	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U103	Thank you. That looks weird, really. In the case of collective protection, the percentage of defence costs is something that may be an end in itself. This is a sign of solidarity and, in this sense, it is not worth undermining this percentage and the amount of expenditure. This is an exception to the budget. But I'm going back to the last question. First of all, European money is no longer simply infrastructure money. However, the infrastructure currently being built does not generate measurable added value. How do you still put these two things together: a structural budget deficit at a time when European money is very cool and it will collapse in a few years' time? What is the logic of the structural disadvantage of the situation where we have money and the obligation to cut money at a time when much less money is coming from Europe and also from the effects of the economic cycle? That is what is at the heart of the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U104	Thank you for your question. I think the point is that we are not able to make the planned investments in time. That's the nucleus. And that's when these funds move from year to year, part of the year where you might not want to make that investment. If we look at the disbursements of European Union grants, we will see that we are unable to implement the projects. I think we had a 30% target at half a year. By the end of the year, hopefully this year will reach 80 to 90%. So, in fact, the ministries are unable to fulfil their planned or committed commitments. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U105	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U106	Thank you. Good minister! For years Estonia has been an example of its conservative fiscal policy both in Europe and in the rest of the world. You yourself write in the introduction to this report that Estonia continues to pursue a conservative fiscal policy. However, the principle of budgetary balance and a number of other fundamental principles, which the Estonian state has been jealously following up to now, are being abandoned. How do your European colleagues feel about this? Have you discussed this issue among yourselves, and how do you justify to them that Estonia has made such a marked change from a conservative fiscal policy towards a budget that goes out of balance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U107	Thank you for your question. There is now a debate among the countries of the European Union on these rules. Opinions vary. We have laid down rules in one way, which are very good rules must be! However, we may think today, on the basis of some knowledge, that the budget will be structurally balanced, but in a few years' time, when all precise data are known, the result will turn out to be quite different. It is now rather estimated that our public debt is low and that it is constantly decreasing. And there's also a reason why we're in a little structural disadvantage. This relates to a coalition agreement, a budget strategy approved in spring. I proposed reducing the planned 0.5% deficit in this agreement to 0.25%. I am pleased that this budget will hopefully be approved by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U108	No more questions for the waitress. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U109	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This issue was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its regular meeting on 18 September. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the National Audit Office were also present. Auditor General Ines Metsalu-Nurminen and Audit Manager Krista Zibo of the Financial Audit Department of the National Audit Office presented an overview of the National Audit Office's audit report for 2016 and the results of its work. In short, the country's accounts for the previous year are substantially correct. That's right: in an important part. A note has been made about the value of AS Eesti Raudtee's fixed assets. The opinion of the National Audit Office was that the proposed value of 184.7 million is slightly higher than that value actually is. However, when it comes to the accounting of public authorities and state-owned foundations and state-owned companies and state-owned profit-making institutions, this is predominantly good. Five questions were asked. They dealt with the same subject of ammunition, the Estonian Railways, which were already mentioned, how technical errors were created, and asked to clarify whether the repeated complaints about the budget explanatory memorandum from year to year have led to changes in the preparation of the explanatory memorandum. For example, are guidance materials prepared for ministries? There was also a question of why the National Audit Office doubts the need to draw up an activity-based budget. If anyone wants, I'll give you an overview of the answers they've received, but they're in the protocol. Everyone gets a pretty detailed overview there. The Commission has taken three decisions: to present the draft at first reading today, 8 November, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U110	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U111	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, it's funny to press the "Speech" button on such a report at all. There should also be a "Citizen's Grief" button on this remote control, and this button will go off every time Toomas Tõniste comes to the remote, because obviously the person doesn't understand what he's talking about. As a student, he reads some kind of dull text, and I couldn't help but hear the lyrics. I don't know if it gets there, but when a person reads the text with the thought, he doesn't confuse regulation and revolution. If you know what you're talking about, you're not confusing those words. But now from the issues with which he got a little focused. These, then, were primarily about what fiscal policy is, what happens when structural resources disappear, and why fiscal policy is such that the structural minus budget is torn away at a time when we have a great deal of structural resources in our hands. And it's still a crazy story if the minister brags that the minus is going to be half the size of the plan. It does not realise that, in an era of structural resource abundance, the state must not live in unsustainable structural disadvantages, but must prepare for times when structural resources are lost and when the economic situation is clearly worse, so that opportunities to support the economy are dwindling. It is extremely regrettable that the Minister of Finance is performing here in essence as an autist. He's numb in his line, he doesn't understand criticism, he doesn't listen to questions and he answers completely misses. Today he again began to talk about the fact that there is actually a debate in Europe that this structural minus, this indicator is still not correct, that after it turns out a completely different number... It's always like this is a cognitive number. The question is what is the choice of budgeting, how the budget is budgeted: whether it is consciously going to the structural disadvantage or knowingly holding surpluses. We deliberately held a small surplus because, according to the European methodology, we are worse off than our own methodology. The Minister of Finance commends that he has the minus and, in fact, it may be inaccurate. Well, knowingly wrong shooting can't be a fiscal policy! I think that the European Commission will come and evaluate our structural minus indicator according to its methodology, and I am quite sure that it will be much greater than that of Toomas Tõniste. The same is true of Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council: this structural minus is actually bigger. But the main thing is the prevailing morale. We miss because the gun's bad. We're gonna miss on purpose, we're gonna miss, knowing the shots are holding to the left, but we're gonna shoot even more to the left, because, you know, this gun is such a bad one. Terribly regrettable! It would be fortunate for our country and our people to end such governance as soon as possible, because this damage will accumulate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U112	There is no further wish for negotiations. The first reading of the draft 500 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U113	Now an overview of the use and disposal of state assets 2016. The Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: The rapporteur is Auditor General Alar Karis. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to remind you that Alar Karis's presentation is first and then any member of the Riigikogu can ask one question. After that, there will be negotiations involving the political groups. Please, Auditor General Alar Karis!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As the honourable Minister of Finance has just confirmed from this remote control, referring to the National Audit Office's assessment, the state accounts are still in order. The audit of the National Audit Office shows that last year's accounts report is substantially correct and correctly and fairly reflects the state's financial position, economic performance and cash flows. The accounts of public authorities, state-owned foundations and state-owned companies are well organised and the annual accounts are free of material errors. The economic transactions of the Estonian state were made in a significant part, based on the State Budget Act and the 2016 State Budget and Amending Act. The amendment to the State Budget Act entered into force at the beginning of last year, which exempted ministries and other constitutional institutions from drawing up the annual accounts separately. These reports did not have a real consumer. Thanks to the completion of the excessive reporting process, a large amount of working time and effort has been saved in both ministries and the National Audit Office. I proposed to the Riigikogu that these unnecessary accounts be abolished in 2013, introducing the annual report of the National Audit Office for the first time as Auditor General in this Chamber. Today, when I introduce you for the last time to the annual report, I am pleased to note that the work of the National Audit Office has resulted in less bureaucracy. Since time is moving fast, there is a reason today to start renewing the audit of national accounts and to make even more use of the opportunities offered by technological developments. The National Audit Office is ready to start carrying out developments which will result in financial audits becoming very largely automated. This will provide an opportunity to focus on audit work that creates greater added value. Technology allows the development of patterns and illogicalities to focus attention on where a person's assessment is needed. This could in particular be achieved by the national authorities themselves dealing with the accounts. However, such technological developments cannot be carried out by the National Audit Office alone, which requires broad-based agreement, planning and implementation. But it's nothing out of the ordinary or beyond reason. You just have to do it and do it. Good listeners! In this year's overview of the use and preservation of state assets, the National Audit Office focuses on the issue of the comprehension and clarity of the state budget. As the right to decide on the budget is the most important rights of the Riigikogu, I am grateful if you take time and get into the thoughts that the National Audit Office wishes to bring to you. While the state budget's comparability with the state budget implementation report has gradually improved over the years, the overview of what the budget can be used for has deteriorated in the opinion of the National Audit Office. The Special Audit Committee of the Riigikogu also found in its report a year ago that the current state budget is difficult to understand for members of the Riigikogu. The Commission's report shows that it is necessary to have an in-depth understanding of the state budget in terms of accounting, financial and economic terms and to find a great deal of time to analyse the various materials together. The National Audit Office has repeatedly stated that improving the comprehension of the budget is in the hands of the members of the Riigikogu. It is Parliament that can say very clearly to the government that the budget must be presented in what way, so that every taxpayer can understand what is being done for his money, where the money is being spent and where the money comes from. Who wants to see how the draft state budget submitted to the Riigikogu in the pre-war Republic of Estonia was drawn up, can come through the special state budget control committee. The National Audit Office issued a fax to the members of the committee 1939/40. The 2009 budget as well as the activity report of the government agencies in 1938/39. Both are also available on the National Audit Office's web. One of the prerequisites for the comprehension of the state budget is the National Budget Act with an appropriate generalisation level and a meaningful and uniform quality explanatory memorandum. However, there are problems with this convergence so far: there is a lack of important information or there is an excessive and unnecessary supply. It has appeared that the explanatory memorandum has explained marginal revenues in amounts of EUR 140 or EUR 300, but for example, there is no explanation of what the substance of this transaction is and why it is needed for some EUR 33 million. I have given examples of this in this Chamber before, and this is also the case with the spending of tens of millions, the content of which cannot be explained in the explanatory memorandum. In the future, the situation will change even further if, in the case of ABB, the state budget is drawn up in terms of performance areas and programmes, the list of which will be determined by the government. The government is able to change the content of these fields and programmes at its discretion and with the desired regularity. Yes, the government sees this as an opportunity to use budget money flexibly. On the other hand, it may reduce the possibility for the Riigikogu and the public to follow the budget decisions and to participate in them if they so wish. According to the State Budget Act Amendment Act adopted in June 2017, the informatism of the expenditure determined by the Annual Budget Act will be further reduced. As Members of Parliament, you have expressed a clear desire that you do not wish to confirm the economic purpose of expenditure in the budget in the future. This means that you will no longer define expenditure as operating costs, investments and subsidies, as has been the case so far. The purpose of the expenditure will now be decided by the minister responsible for each area. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will in future receive comprehensive information from ministers about the amount of the costs of their administration and the reasons and needs for changing them. It is undoubtedly up to the Riigikogu to decide to what extent it wishes to participate in the budget process and what ways to use it. It is certainly possible to rely on the principle that the Riigikogu trusts the budget process mainly to the government that it has appointed, and rather confirms its trust in the government by adopting the budget as a whole. It is probably unreasonable for the Riigikogu to deal with individual items of expenditure and objects. However, the government should be prepared to explain and explain to the Riigikogu and the public in an operational manner why one or the other fundamental choice has been made. In all of this, however, it is essential that the Riigikogu, which has to approve the expenditure plan presented by the government, is aware of the content and consequences of its decision-making choices. It must be aware of areas where it is particularly important to maintain a functioning system of weights and counterweights, also on the axis of executive power and legislative power. I am thinking of fundamental changes such as this year's decision to correct the budgetary position rules by allowing a structural deficit of 0.5%, subject to certain special conditions. There is no doubt that the Riigikogu has the full right to make our own rules more flexible within the framework of the general rules of the European Union. This margin of flexibility has not yet been fully deployed, but is only halfway through: a structural deficit of 1% is allowed in the European Union. However, as practice has so far shown and will probably continue to show, the assessment of our structural balance by Estonia itself and the European Commission may differ significantly. The reason is different methodology and its suitability or suitability in the light of some of our particularities. These disputes with the European Commission have also been going on for years. However, it can generally be said that in stable times, both economically and politically, such financial flexibility is a very effective means of promoting the lives of the people of the country in the hands of a wise government. In economically volatile times, whether it is a boom or a crisis, there is no difference, and in politically volatile days there is a risk that it will distort the financial reality of the state in the eyes of the government and the public and create more confusion in already volatile circumstances. And then it doesn't matter if our potential growth is projected to be slightly higher or lower than our estimated maximum performance. What is important is how such changes to the rules affect the attitude and decisions of the government in the future, i.e. whether a certain temptation to see an additional income in the promised minus and a source of permanent spending can be resisted. Therefore, from the point of view of the National Audit Office, it would have been welcome if making the rules on the budgetary position more flexible was accompanied by a decision by which the Riigikogu would have established the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve and the rule that if the budget was not balanced, the contributions will increase to the stabilisation reserve. It would be wise for the state to increase the stabilisation reserve to an agreed level in a sustainable manner, for example, by allocating a certain amount to the annual state budget in addition to Eesti Pank's profit allocation, which is not very high, or other extraordinary income. The policy and principles of maintaining and collecting state reserves would be reasonable to lay down in the State Budget Act, the verification of compliance with these requirements could be the competence of the Riigikogu. Why do I put so much emphasis on this collection of different reserves? However, because the central government's share of the State's liquidity reserve was exhausted already in autumn 2015, i.e. two years ago. This does not mean, of course, that the country is out of money. No, it's not. But it means, broadly speaking, that what comes in, it goes right out, and it's still missing. I would remind you that the country has two reserves: the stabilisation reserve and the liquidity reserve. Now, let's talk about the last one. In addition to the central government's own money, the liquidity reserve includes the money of two public entities, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, as well as the money paid in advance by the state's foundations, the European Commission for grants to the European Union. If the central government does not have liquid reserves, it is normal for the State to finance its liabilities by means of a loan or overdraft if it cannot be avoided or deferred. The Ministry of Finance has used the cash from the sickness fund and the unemployment fund in the liquidity reserve instead of the loan and overdraft, as the Ministry estimates that it has been more advantageous than borrowing. As of September 2017, the government had temporarily used approximately EUR 340 million of the cash of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund of public persons to cover its running costs and liabilities, which has been held with the Treasury since 2012. I would stress that this does not mean that if the government had not used the money of the sickness fund and the unemployment fund to cover its daily expenses, EUR 340 million of free money would have come out of nowhere to treat people and train the unemployed. No, it's not. The government must ensure that there is money at all times for the payments of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund, and that there has really been no disruption in the disbursement of the sickness fund or the unemployment fund so far. At the same time, such a temporary use of public funds to cover the running costs of the state, if this is indeed the will of the Riigikogu, would require legal clarity. For the sake of clarity, this will should not only be governed by the basic law of the state budget, but also by legislation on the work of the unemployment fund and the sickness fund. The Chancellor of Justice also supports legal clarity and alignment of laws. And I was pleased to hear that a few minutes ago, the Minister of Finance also promised to bring these laws into line. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Over the years, it has been said a lot that the budget decisions of the government and the Riigikogu playground are actually small, because most money has already been put in front of laws and other decisions, so-called 'fixed'. According to the Ministry of Finance, such fixed costs accounted for 78% of the state budget volume in 2016 and are forecast to account for almost 80% of the state budget volume in 2020. What are the fixed costs? Unfortunately, this information has not been received by the Riigikogu or the National Audit Office for years. By the way, as of this year, the government no longer talks about fixed expenditure in the budget explanatory memorandum, because a new method of accounting is being developed. Better taxes have put more or the same amount of money at the disposal of the government overall, but the increase in revenues is being absorbed by the increase in the costs of ageing our population and other demographic aspects. Last year, social and health expenditure accounted for 47% of the total expenditure of the state budget. By 2020, the Ministry of Finance estimates that this proportion will increase to 50%. In order to develop the system, there is an annual increase in the amount of money that is on a pro rata basis. The state has partly been able to mitigate this lack of free money in financing its development, functions and investments, using non-refundable external assistance, in particular grants from the European Union. Over the last ten years, on average, about half of the government investment and about 11% of the state budget expenditure in Estonia is supported by external subsidies. However, external aid is essentially intended to boost our development, which was also mentioned by the Minister of Finance, in order to start something up. This has really been of great help to Estonia. We have reason to be grateful to taxpayers in other countries for this gift. However, we cannot and must not continue to look to the more prosperous Member States with a kind of demanding expectation, considering such aid to be a natural and unmistakable part of our lives and incomes. It's selfish to think that someone else should give us money. For various reasons, the time is now coming when Estonia's external aid will start to shrink. Of course, the amount of money allocated to Estonia in the new budget period of the European Union is not yet known. However, even if the impact of the UK's exit from the European Union is not taken into account, this aid is estimated to decrease by around 40%, i.e. by some EUR 1.5 billion, as originally estimated by the Ministry of Finance. In the current period, Estonia has a total of 4.4 billion euro money. On account of this, we have EUR 3.5 billion in subsidies for agriculture and fisheries, which are on a special footing. This year's annual review of the National Audit Office focuses on external aid money and the future of its use. In addition to this, the National Audit Office will also publish the results of a specific audit on the subject in the coming weeks, where there are annexes for different areas. Hopefully, the sectoral committees of the Riigikogu will help to raise awareness of these materials. A month and a half ago, on September 26, 30 years passed from the day when the IME, or self-managing Estonian programme, was published in the newspaper of Tartu, which has been a very important, symbolic sign of the events that led to the restoration of Estonia's independence. And although time and Estonia as a whole have now changed completely, the slogan at the time is also valid now: Estonia should be able to manage itself. We are developing a kind of external aid dependency in a number of areas. For example, the development of the national road network will be financed by approximately 36% of the European Union's funding in 2014-2020. The implementation of the labour capacity reform has also been financed mainly by the euro grants and the provision of a number of labour market services is financed. Financial support for entrepreneurship and regional development will amount to approximately 85 to 90% of the European Union funds. However, external aid is not intended to maintain anything permanently, more than one or the other task is part of the permanent nature of the country. In my opinion, one country, if it wants to be viable and sustainable, must build up its functioning on the money that it itself is capable of serving with the hands and brains of its people. I have no doubt that the state of Estonia is capable of doing this, we have never been as wealthy in material terms as we are now. However, we will be able to guide the development and prosperity of our society and grow better and more effectively if we prepare for life without external aid early and thoughtfully enough. Among other things, it must be taken into account that important financing decisions affect the development of the state over the financial years, but the state's budgetary strategy is dealt with only by the government and the Riigikogu's relationship with it is rather post-approval, informative, taking note. It should also be taken into account that the budget period of the European Union extends beyond the electoral periods of Estonia, and that the government currently does not have a complete picture of the extent of our dependence on euro money. According to the Ministry of Finance, the amount of money allocated to us in the new budget period of the European Union could be reduced by EUR 150 to 200 million per year. To what do we compare it? For example, it is estimated that the increase in the tax-free minimum that will enter into force from the new year will cost us about the same amount. On the one hand, it is a large amount of money of 150.200 million euros, the loss of which will certainly be felt in the Estonian economy. It certainly also affects government-oriented investments and activities which are largely financed by European structural support. On the other hand, even a few hundred million are not an unfathomable amount. In comparison, if only two Tallinn city halls could be renovated or a couple of Estonian National Museums could be built for less euro money available to the whole country each year. And the same costs are paid by the sea and land cables required for Estlink 2 in the Estonian-Finnish electricity connection. When the National Audit Office asked the ministries whether they had a plan to reduce what activities are currently financed for euro money or to stop them altogether, the ministries thought that it was necessary to continue about 90% of what is currently being done in the new budget period of the European Union. If the new budget period comes to seven years, the same level of funding for investments and activities will be needed for the period 2021 to 2020 at least EUR 3 billion, which is currently coming from the European Union. When the National Audit Office asked the officials of the ministries how to finance all this in the event of a reduction or absence of euro money, there were two main answers: 'I don't know. 'or the state budget. ' Where and how to get money into the state budget, the National Audit Office stopped asking. In any case, the government could already, by making its own plans, base itself on the principle that each aid is of a one-off nature and cannot be programmed into the country's day-to-day model of operation. We should also start practicing ourselves with the idea that Estonia will become a recipient of aid. We should think about what we expect to change on a European scale with the money we contribute. The officials of the Ministry of Finance have told the National Audit Office that problems related to the reduction of euro money will be resolved in the course of the so-called work, in particular during the preparation of the state's budget strategy and annual budget. At this point, I would like to draw your attention once again that the budgetary strategy is not one of the documents that the Riigikogu is discussing. These topics, however, seem to be so important that the Riigikogu can give its working time to reflect on them and to orientate the government. But it is clearly up to the Riigikogu itself whether or not to deal with this issue. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As I have already pointed out when dealing with the state budget rules, it is reasonable to use these good times to prepare for times that are not so good. Reserves should be collected and reforms should be carried out to manage expenditure growth and encourage new revenues. In this way, it is important that the government supports precisely those activities that have proven themselves to be profitable in time: promoting education and promoting entrepreneurship, creativity, innovation and ingenuity. Time has also proven itself to be the need to organise the country rationally and effectively. We could also ask ourselves, when undertaking different reforms, what part of them brings added value to the economy. Social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities must also be borne in mind. And it is not too much to recall the need to critically assess everything that the country is currently dealing with and to think through what is really necessary, which could be abandoned. This should be done regardless of whether the flow of external assistance is continuing in the same way or decreasing. A simple question will help us in making our choices: would we do this or the other, and in this way, even if we were to bear all the costs of this decision ourselves? And before you answer, it might take some time to think. Now is a good time for such a thought exercise. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your cooperation with the previous and current Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U115	The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have told us here that in 2020, we will strike a balance with the budget. It's completely empty, as it turned out here today. When we asked whether a strategy had been developed in Estonia to cope with the next financial period, which starts in 2021, when the basic cohesion funds start to fall by 150 to 200 million euros, it turned out that there was no strategy. The Ministry of Finance doesn't know where to take this money, or it says it has to be taken from the state budget. If it should happen that the economic situation is getting more complicated and, at the same time, the European Union's resources are decreasing, we could be in a very difficult situation. It is still very strange to hear the answers of the Ministry of Finance to the National Audit Office that there is no need to collect reserves, that there are aid mechanisms today, ESM. Well, this is the last chance to talk about! Those countries that have been in programme state status have done everything they can to get out of this position. Talking about the possibility of requesting financial assistance from other countries is completely irresponsible talk, especially at a time when the economy is growing and the country is living beyond its means. The National Audit Office also paid a great deal of attention to the ambiguity of the state budget. If we look at the budget for next year, we will see, as the previous speakers said, that it is really very difficult to orientate there. Accounting and other economic knowledge are not enough either, as there is simply no information. One example: The section of the Ministry of Finance detaileds the amounts to cancel the student loan of two unemployment funds and one employee of the State Forest Management Centre, but if you start looking for information about how much more money will come into the budget, for example, in connection with the IPO of the Port of Tallinn, you will not find it. It is like the pattern used by the current government that information is withheld, information is given inadequately in the budget explanatory memorandum, and it is relatively impossible to orientate. But finally I say that the sooner the current coalition stops its activities, its irresponsible fiscal policy and its overliving policy will stop, the better for Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U116	Thank you very much. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U117	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! It's a good document. Thank you, and I would like to ask you to pass it on to all your colleagues and subordinates at the National Audit Office. But I have a little concern about whether we can and whether our descendants here on Toompea will continue to receive the same good insights for analysis. For two and a half years in the Special Committee on State Budget Control, I have been able to get to know several of your employees, especially the views of Mr Tarmo Olgo and Mrs Airi Mikli have sympathised with me. Now one of them has resigned, the other has changed its title and apparently its responsibilities. This is probably linked to changes in your internal structure and organisation of work. Are these changes in the organisation of the work of the National Audit Office really helping to ensure that the same good audits are carried out in the future and we get the same good reviews?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U118	Good questioner, thank you for that question. Yes, every institution changes in time and the National Audit Office is no exception. The structural change has been undertaken in particular with a view to ensuring that the right to decide and obligations are in a single place. In other words, we reduced the chain of governance and put more responsibility on those people who are essentially in charge of audits and audits. Audit managers must have clearly defined responsibilities and responsibilities. I am convinced that our people will continue to be able to give not only the same good reports, but thank you for this compliment! But they will certainly be able to produce even better reviews.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U119	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Karis, also for a very correct and substantive report, but also for the report that has been submitted. My question concerns the operationalisation of the state budget. The Minister of Finance referred to in his reply, which he wrote off on paper, that this activity-based change was enshrined in the law and that he did not understand why the Auditor General indicates that this is not the best development. How would you explain why the Ministry of Finance is so firmly on this course, although the Ministry of Education and Research, which was operating under the pilot project, claims that it does not provide a good and transparent picture of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U121	Good questioner! It could be more of a finance ministry to explain why they're continuing this policy. We have already drawn attention to this when, in fact, there was no intention of moving to an activity-based budget. But unfortunately, this pilot project was taken up in a relatively complicated ministry. The objection has always been that to give time to the current is still early to say, maybe we'll take one more ministry and then another ministry. And then at one point, half the ministries are already covered by the pilot project, and then there's definitely no going back. Why is this the basis for this? I don't know. There are very different ways to pursue this policy, both in Europe and in the rest of the world. I guess it just comes down to the fact that some people have read some books and some people have read other books. And then the one who has read a certain book and happens to be sitting in a chair where he has the opportunity to make certain suggestions in the country, so he does. That's why we're so far away from where we are. I don't want to ironize. What I'm trying to say is that it probably takes a little time to assess whether this policy has justified itself or not. But what's important is that when we figure out that this isn't the right way, that we stop there instead of moving forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U122	Thank you, good vice chairman. Thank you, Mr Karis, for this presentation. For me, one message from your report was particularly significant: the government does not have a complete view of how dependent we are on the European Union's resources. Can it also be concluded that you think it would be reasonable for Estonia to make its behaviour more flexible within the framework of the European Union and to seek more flexible opportunities? Can it be concluded that the Ministry has no understanding at all of whether it is possible to make the use of its resources more flexible or not? I'm in contact with the electricity transfer to the country right now. I have the impression that this comprehensive review has not been made, nor has it been made, in order to understand what the European Union is and what the possibilities of using its resources are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U123	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U124	Good questioner! It is not a question for those who should answer whether they understand or do not understand. I still think that this understanding exists here and there in the ministries. It is also the understanding that it should look at how long and how external assistance can be taken forward. As we know, EU money is also part of the budget and, in this sense, it is not as distinct. Some ministries and some officials are known to prepare a quiet exit strategy, either for their own drawer or for other purposes, but there is no such whole. But the Minister also said here that the plan is to move in this direction. I think that if you move in this direction, the National Audit Office has contributed a little to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U125	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U126	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Auditor General! I would also like to thank you for your meaningful presentation, and I would like to say that, of course, it is very grateful that you have devoted quite a lot of attention to the state's reserves of money. You also discussed this with the Ministry so that the optimal size of the stabilisation reserve could be established and its optimal size determined. The Treasury Department's attitude is very strange. They say that there are no reserves, as much as there is a need at all, and if the country is in difficulty, there are all kinds of aid mechanisms and it is also possible to appeal to other countries for financial assistance. In a situation where the Ministry of Finance does not want to establish the optimal size rule for the stabilisation reserve and where, at the same time, we know that the stabilisation reserve is only slightly above the pre-crisis, crown-time level, could we agree to do it ourselves? Could the National Audit Office, together with the Special Audit Committee of the Riigikogu, determine its optimal size?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U127	Thank you for your question. It is the task of the Riigikogu, not so much of the National Audit Office, to amend the law and to make the law. The National Audit Office can certainly make proposals in this area, and we have made them. I wouldn't be as hopelessly tuned as you. You said nothing would happen and nothing would change. Today we have heard that the laws of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund are still to be brought into line. There has been a relatively long dispute with the Ministry of Finance. The rule is simple: you simply must not give up and must continue. If you are convinced that your steps or your proposals are right and if these steps can be taken in the Riigikogu, then I think that these things will finally happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U128	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for another breath of fresh air! He rarely hears such things. But what worries me is that we have been in the so-called dependent role for a dozen years, especially in some areas: road construction, entrepreneurship, work capacity reform. But now the dependant will have to take care of himself soon, and we will have to find that 200 million every year. I read here that the quality of education is likely to decline, that life in the countryside is slowed down and that emigration to cities is increasing, that the quality of roads and railways is falling, as well as the level of nursing homes, etc. Where is this 200 million, although it is a small part of the state budget, still found every year? For example, is EAS 5,000 euro lunches no longer possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U130	Thank you for your question. I would say as the Treasury Department official answers: this money comes from the state budget. But yes, the question is, where does this money come from in the state budget? After all, the state budget has clearly increased in recent years, but on the other hand, certain areas are eating more and more money. These are political decisions. In this sense, the word'state budget' is not at all the wrong word. If you look at the contents of the state budget, you simply have to make these choices, you can't do everything, some things have to be left unfinished or postponed. It's as simple as that, and you probably know it better than I do. But, above all, it is still important that our country's budget increases, that 200 million does not seem as large as it seems now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U131	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is the use of social security funds' money. You, as well as the Chancellor of Justice, have already pointed out on several occasions that the activities of the Ministry of Finance in such a way that reserves are used to cover daily expenses are not legitimate. At the same time, you are very optimistic, and you believe that if you don't quit, maybe this law will be changed. The Ministry of Finance probably doesn't think it needs to be changed very much. How do you feel that the justification for this to be cheaper for the state is enough to break the law or to understand the law in such a way? It turns out from your report that social and health costs will be more than 50% of our total costs in the future. There is therefore a great danger if we use reserve money to cover operational costs and not for what is needed in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U133	Thank you for your question. My optimism is based on trust, because the Minister of Finance himself said here today that these laws would be brought into line. If he does not, I believe you will keep an eye on the situation and discuss why one minister is lying to members of the Riigikogu. So that's where my optimism comes from. And we are more concerned that everything must be legal. The Ministry of Finance claims that this road is cheaper than taking over credit, taking out a loan. But it should be legalized. And it is likely that a limit should be set that should not go down, for in some ways it is foreign money. People have entrusted their money to the Treasury, and they want to make sure that if they get into trouble, they get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U134	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good Auditor General, thank you for your presentation. I am asking about a reduction in the European Union's financial allocation. It's actually known a long time ago, but the willingness to find a solution is still weak. Your report revealed what I've been experiencing: they say there's money to be found somewhere, but we don't know where to get it. Probably have to be taken from the budget. I understand there's gonna be a topic audit coming up on this one soon. But suddenly it's possible to open up a little bit of the subject right now? In what areas, I would say, does helplessness stand out the most in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U136	Thank you for that question. In fact, these things have been highlighted in this annual report. These are the answers of the ministries themselves, where they see the problem most. They are not like the problems offered by the National Audit Office or the Auditor General. However, as far as these individual audits are concerned, I cannot introduce their content. There is already a law in front of the cross: until we have received answers from the ministries, we do not have the right to publish the conclusions of the audits. Unfortunately, we are now in a situation where some ministries have been able to provide these answers, some are not, although I asked the Cabinet to tell the ministers that they would give the answers so that we could talk more about it here today. But, unfortunately, there are officials who have announced that they have their own round of coordination and that they will start with it about next week. But I don't think we're gonna lose anything in the end. These audits will be carried out, and Riigikogu committees and Riigikogu large halls, if they wish, will be able to discuss their results. I think it's more a matter of weeks than months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U137	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your presentation, you have given a great deal of attention to the budget and also referred to the senses of the peasant, the necessary savings and the planning of your cash flows. As you mentioned, officials in the future replied on the declining cash flows of the European Union that money comes from the state budget and from other sources. Indeed, different reforms have been introduced in the country, such as the work capacity reform, which by its very nature is not just the construction of a single wall, but a very long-term process. Have there really been no analysis of what future flows of money will be and at what cost all of this will be done? Isn't that something you've been trying to predict? After all, the government has confirmed to us here in the Riigikogu several times that it will balance the budget in 2021. Given the risks that you have also pointed out here, including the loss of European Union money due to the increase in our wealth, the question really is whether these analyses are not there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U139	As regards the reform of working capacity, we also pointed out in our earlier audit that this process was launched with the support of European Union money. It is understood that it is not cheap, that more resources are needed to do so and that this must be taken into account by the relevant ministries. I cannot tell you the current state of play whether, specifically with the reform of the capacity for work, there has been any progress in the sense that there is a plan by the time the current period is over and the euro subsidies are decreasing. I rather fear that we are in the same position as in other areas where euro money is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U140	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U141	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General Alar Karis, I too thank you for a very thorough and substantive review and for this presentation. I actually have interrelated questions. First of all, you are a constitutional institution and, in this sense, your opinions are well-informed. According to the local authorities, this was not the most successful in terms of corruption, because there were no convincing reasons. I'm going to ask you this. You said that the Finance Department officials could answer the question about the source of the money, that they didn't know it or that the back came from the state budget. He will come, but in your presentation you stressed several times that this is a political question about how to solve these things. How high-level officials did you communicate with and, secondly, what should the government do to find new solutions to this 200 million dropout? You gave very nice examples of this amount, referring to the city hall and your future job. And have you appreciated this and, if so, do you think that euro money has always gone to the right place in Estonia? If we had not had this money, would we have spent so much on roads and some monuments, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U142	Thank you for your question. Those examples, including the misfortunes, of how the European Union's money and not just the European Union's money have been used in this volatile world, I could bring a lot in this Chamber to entertain myself and you. But I won't. That is one key point, which also concerns local authorities: to think about what to do if there is less money. The same question about the state budget: one could look inside, then perhaps some stupidities and stupidities would not be done. I think this is the way forward. I also pointed out that this is the time to start thinking about these things. In addition to everything, European Union money generates many more fixed costs. We may be able to build roads, but they need to be kept in order. We can see on the Tartu highway how the roads for euro money need to be cleaned up, and it is not cheap. The decisions we put European Union money in are also very important because, in many cases, they will lead to additional costs for our budget later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U143	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U144	Thank you, manager. Dear Auditor General, In the last few weeks' performances, you have expressed this healthy scepticism about two things: firstly, the financing of the European Union and, secondly, the visitation to the Estonian National Museum concerning your future profession. I don't want a comment on that. But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. It is now customary in Estonia to write a book about its activities and life. If you were to write a book about your years as Auditor General, what would be its title?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U145	I'm sure it wouldn't be called "Life Spent" or anything like that. But first of all, I don't intend to write any books. And I don't want to say that living is something that someone else will write a book about you. But I am sure that every profession I have held has given me a great deal more. I have been able to take advantage of all the knowledge and skills I have acquired in my subsequent professions. I am truly fortunate that I have been able to live a diverse life, and I can probably continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U146	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U147	Thank you, manager. Good Auditor General! There was a question earlier about the cost side, apart from everything else. Your team has also studied the subject of Rail Baltic. In the coming years, do you think the Estonian state will suffer with its own budget to build and maintain such a railway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U148	Thank you for your question. Last year, I personally launched the initiative that the Auditors of the three Baltic States would keep a very close eye on Rail Baltic. The National Audit Office of Finland and Poland would also be involved. And we are not doing this in a way that in 2035 we will come up with a report that says that everything has been done wrong and the money has been wasted, but we will carry out these audits in parallel with the way Rail Baltic is being built. I suggest you keep an eye on our website and see when the first joint report, drawn up with our Baltic colleagues, appears.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U149	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U150	Thank you. I will take this opportunity to congratulate you first and thank you for the work you have done, but also to ask you, because I do not think this opportunity will come again in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U151	It's always possible to ask questions. I'm still on for five months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U152	But I'm gonna ask you now, and not for the last few years. I'll ask you that. Thanks to the opening up of the European Union's Structural Funds and their coming to Estonia, our governments seem to have a feeling that we still have money. Years ago, we ourselves have acknowledged that there has been an increase in the teams of agencies under ministries. If we now receive less money from the European Union's structural funds in the near future, how should the state behave? Should we shrink, get thinner? What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U153	Thank you! My view is that it is not just the fact that about EUR 200 million per year will receive less money from the European Union. This is a much wider question of how to proceed. Who read the Financial Times today, it knows that it says that Deutsche Bank will reduce its staff by tens of thousands there by 97000. And it is not because there is a drop in money anywhere, but because technology is so advanced and it is possible to introduce much more innovative solutions. So we should start thinking about what can be done. What was I referring to in my speech? That there are many things that can be done today by machines. And when the machines come into play, people will survive and people will be able to work where people are needed and where robots can't handle it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U154	Dear Auditor General Alar Karis! The Riigikogu hopes to see you in this speech chair in the future, but in this role you really had the last annual review to give. We thank you for all these years, for the analytical and constructive nature of all these presentations. It seems that one of our fellow Members made a proposal to write a book would find our support, at least spiritual. And since you might think there's gonna be a lot of these reprints, Alar Karis, you could even be moderately rich. You said you were confident that the continuer of your profession was good and made good reviews. On the basis of your optimism, the Riigikogu is also sure of this. At the same time, we think that this man or woman will probably have to get up very early.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U155	Thank you very much for your good words. I think maybe a 101-page book can be put together if I ask each of you a question and you write down the answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U156	I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Andres Ammas, please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U157	Honourable President! Honorable Auditor General! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I will start again with the words of recognition on the authors of this document. I dare say that this is a mandatory reading material for all people who are heartbroken for the Estonian state, both in this hall and in all government institutions, as well as in the general public of Estonia. I dare say that this is material that could be addressed in upper secondary school social studies classes and higher education seminars. Once again, although the honourable Alar Karis also stopped on all these issues, I would like to emphasise five of the most important points in my eyes. Firstly, the activity-based budgeting that has already been mentioned several times today. The final truth as to whether or not the optimism of the Ministry of Finance is true is only in time. But as the former Minister of Finance quite rightly said yesterday: the person who read the book on the basis of which this principle was implemented has probably already wiped Estonian dust off his feet. Now it is simply inertia that continues something whose meaning and, unfortunately, its possible consequences are not very well understood. The National Audit Office delicately says that activity-based budgeting may reduce the possibilities for the Riigikogu to direct budget decisions. Having drafted the proposals of the Free Party Group on behalf of its partymates a week ago to change the state budget for the coming year, I say: it cannot reduce these opportunities, but it has already significantly reduced them. It was absolutely impossible to propose unambiguous, understandable amendments across certain ministries. And when I asked for advice from the Ministry of Finance at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday, I received something in response to the fact that these proposals will take the form of such a short essay in the future. I am not sure whether we want such a budgetary process in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the National Audit Office, once again rightly, draws attention to a problem which, in the last six months, perhaps has been much talked about in this Chamber even to annoyingness, but which is extremely important and which must be said 24/7. It is the same thing that the current economic situation, the period of growth in the country's economy and revenue, could mean an opportunity not necessarily to spend more, but to increase reserves. This optimistic situation in the European economy may prove to be short-term. The Ministry of Finance also agrees that the government coalition could make its decisions on the basis of this principle. And this is something that must be constantly recalled, that well-earned revenues could be used to increase the national reserves. It is very sympathetic for me and my party associates that the National Audit Office stresses in a separate paragraph that the biggest challenges of the Estonian economy are still to increase productivity. What else can we do to make it better than contribute more to R &amp; D? Products and services become more complex, and as such an economy grows, we have no other way out and no other solution. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U158	Yeah, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U159	As the revenue of the state budget grows, but reserves do not grow, perhaps the question that has attracted the most media attention from this audit is the question. This is where I dare to look towards previous governments, whose activities are now in the Riigikogu, after all. I quote: 'The government's share of liquid reserves was exhausted in autumn 2015. As of the end of May 2017, the government had used approximately 500 million euros of Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund and Estonian Health Insurance Fund's money to cover its expenses and liabilities. ' Here you have to ask the reasons and motives of both the current government coalition and the previous couple. That we take decisions in a row and in a row in this Chamber, that we want to be popular and nice people, and that we like all social groups and all interest groups, that we may not understand every day, and it is good that the National Audit Office reminds us of that. If we continue to increase this part of the state budget, which is enshrined in the law, and which cannot be discussed any further, in fact, if we continue to have a policy of support, a policy of wishing everyone to like it, then it is really scary to think if any of the next governments come at least on the same left or on the left. Then it will be as one of the leading social democrats on Monday evening said in the 'Actual Camera' in answer to the question of whether taxes should be raised: he said no, taxes can also be changed. I don't know what that meant. It did not instill optimism and faith in a responsible economy. Finally, the topic on which the Auditor General gave a great deal of attention in his presentation: the reduction in EU subsidies after 2020. It's been discussed, but probably little has been done, as was clear from the questioning of the ministries. What can we do in this hall? We can ask the current coalition already next spring when another budgetary strategy is presented before us. And we can ask if this government has any plan besides the principle that after us come or the flood. Now is the time for the government to share with the Riigikogu a plan from the Republic of Estonia after 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U160	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party Tanel Talve.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U161	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Mr Karis, Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by quoting the thoughts of the Auditor General from his review, which I personally agree with a hundred percent. He said that if a country wants to be viable and sustainable, it must build up its functioning on the money it is able to earn with the hands and brains of its people. When designing the various reforms, we should critically ask ourselves which part of them brings added value to the economy and is indeed necessary, without forgetting the cohesion of society and the reduction of inequalities. In the moment, ladies and gentlemen, we are not too bad. Our economy has grown faster than expected. Estonia's economic growth accelerated significantly in the first half of this year, reaching 5.2%. The economy grew by 5.7% in the second quarter of this year. It is clear that Estonia has broken the economic stagnation of recent years. Economic growth has been driven by our good Estonian companies and entrepreneurs who have created new jobs and boosted the economy in recent years. Of course, it should not be forgotten that quite a part of this growth has been achieved by the construction sector and also by internal consumption. Next year's state budget will also contribute to improving people's living environment, increasing social equality, ensuring long-term and sustainable economic growth. The country's revenues and costs will exceed EUR 10 billion for the first time next year. Next year, the income of most Estonians will increase thanks to an increase in the tax-free income rate, as well as major changes in the health care sector: increasing healthcare funding will improve access to health care and the aim will also be to shorten treatment queues. More than EUR 200 million will be spent on health care over four years, with 34 million next year. In addition to the growth of various grants, the government has decided to increase the municipal income tax share and the equalisation fund's receipts by 30 million euros next year. The government will invest more than a billion euros through the state budget next year to support the long-term growth capacity of the Estonian economy. Of course, these are all important steps for economic growth and people's well-being. After all, as a state, we must be able to ensure that people have a good place to live in Estonia and that Estonia is the best place to study, work and start a family. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to ensure sustainable economic growth and the competitiveness of Estonia. It is clear that in the coming years we will be faced with a situation where the European Union's subsidies to Estonia will decrease and we must find ways in which we can continue to move our economy forward and grow. It is certainly important to increase the productivity and competitiveness of Estonian companies and find ways to solve the challenges facing us. The National Audit Office's report shows that the percentage of fixed expenditure in the state budget continues to increase, half of the state budget goes to social and health expenditures and their share increases further. In 2020, about 80% of state budget expenditure has been booked in advance. So we need to find a way to ensure that these key areas continue to be financed after the European Union's resources are cut. The possible reduction in EU subsidies would affect many of the country's tasks and objectives. I'll get some out here. In the social field, for example, according to the Ministry of Social Affairs, the number of care services for older people and people with special needs may be reduced if no additional European Union subsidies or additional money is received from the state budget during the next EU budget period. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has pointed out that if transport funding is to decrease after 2020, this will lead to a deterioration in the quality of the road and rail networks. Failure to provide the necessary funding in the IT area could lead, inter alia, to poor quality of e-services or not to the development of services to the extent that the administrative burden would be reduced. Many of the activities supporting entrepreneurship currently depend on the European Union's money at 90 to 100%. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, a significant reduction in European Union money would have a negative impact on Estonia's development goals, such as research and development, company innovation and also export capacity. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U162	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U163	It is therefore clear that financing the development of the country after 2020 requires a very serious analysis and attention, right now and now. To be honest, it would have needed attention much earlier. The Ministry of Finance has proposed a solution that possible issues arising from the reduction of European Union subsidies will be addressed in particular in the preparation of national budgetary strategies. In the opinion of the National Audit Office, it is also important to involve the Riigikogu in the planning of the next budget period of the European Union in order to set wider priorities. This means that the country's budgetary strategy must be brought to Parliament. I fully agree with this idea and ask the Ministry of Finance to include the Riigikogu early. Of course, the state reform problem committee set up by Parliament is also doing its best to discuss and try to reach a decision on how the governance of our country should go further. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise the constitutional right, the duty, the role and the responsibility of all of us to engage in the drafting of a future country's budgetary strategy and to ensure that our country can continue to be a country with a growing economy after 2020 where, among other things, population, security and human well-being are also ensured. So summing up more for the future! I very much hope that this vision will take place in more than two-year electoral cycles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U164	Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U165	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Auditor General! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Auditor General once again for a meaningful overview, a meaningful report. It is well-reading material, rather short, concise, very clear, understandable and of extreme value to all of us. There is a saying that perhaps the most important thing is not where we are now, but which way we are going. That we are going in the wrong direction, both with our fiscal policy and with our fiscal policy, with monetary and economic policy at all, has been said by Eesti Pank. The European Commission has expressed its congratulations on Estonia because, thanks to the current conservative fiscal policy and our relatively strong position vis-à-vis other countries, we have certainly been at the forefront of the European Union. But already at the end of this month, the European Commission's assessment will come, and I think it will no longer be so commendable. The structural deficit, for which the government confirms that it is small, 0,25%, is not within this range according to more recent knowledge. Minus is much bigger. That is what Euro Commissioner in Dombrovsk told us in advance when he visited Estonia last week. He did not mention the exact figures yet, but the message was, in any case, very clear: it is not right to relax the budget rules in good times. As the National Audit Office says in its report: in good times reserves must be collected, we must prepare for the more difficult times of the future. The changing phases of the economic cycle is inevitable. The previous speaker also said that the current situation is not bad. And the report on the state of play for 2016 also says that the budget was both nominally and structurally positive. As the previous speaker said, the economic stagnation is broken. Yes, thanks to the improvement in the global economy, thanks to the activities of our entrepreneurs and despite the activities of the current coalition, the Estonian economy is really on the rise. But, as I said, the economic inevitable is that the phases of the economic cycle vary. The rapid rise will be followed sooner or later by a more difficult time. By then we must prepare and have been constantly emphasised by the National Audit Office. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U166	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U167	Mart Helme, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U168	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Auditor General, ladies and gentlemen, I will start where the previous speaker ended: namely, that irresponsible monetary policy is now getting more and more wind on the sails in our country. Those sails should be covered. I wouldn't say so harshly that the sooner this coalition stops, the better, but the irresponsible wasting the sails should be rolled. That's one. But actually, I wanted to start by thanking the Auditor General for pointing out quite a number of problems that we have in the area of economics and finance and which also point to short-sightedness, irresponsibility and populism. Let us be honest: the budget is populist in many ways and it can be assumed that the next budgets are even more populist. What's this about? The question is that Estonia has increasingly emphasised that we have a small and open economy. This means that we have a small and open economy whose economic development depends to a greater extent than we would like, on foreign markets, on our neighbours, exports, but also on imports and labour and labour mobility. These are problems that we have often tried to solve extensively. We all know how much we have been talking about and writing about labour shortages lately, but it is being approached at the wrong end. We are approaching the end of bringing in cheap labour from Ukraine, which is what solves our labour problems, and the economy is growing like this. We are making so-called investments, which are not really investments, but spending money. True, I have to admit that often these money expenses, or rather the budget, do not say money expenditures, say budget expenditures! It is justified because, for many years, much money was not allocated to the social sphere and regional policy in particular. They just didn't! And that's how there's been a build-up of problems that can't be solved other than pumping up money. It's inevitable. We can criticise here that this is wrong monetary policy, but in some ways it is inevitable monetary policy. But I want to come back to the fact that it is not possible to solve economic problems with extensive methods. It is also not possible to resolve them with this attitude, which is overly prevalising in Estonia, as if we were obliged to report before Brussels or the European Commission. The European Commission has praised us for this; the European Commission has praised us for the other. We are making very good use of the European Union's aid money. But I'm sorry! Let us ask those who have given us the mandate whether they are satisfied! Is this person in Võrumaa or Saaremaa or Virumaa, who lives a relatively crappy life with an income of 500 to 600 euros, also satisfied that the European Commission commends us? Maybe that's not enough to please him. And this means that the real engine of our economy and the well-being of our people can be innovative. This, however, requires investment. There's been a lot of talk about this, but it hasn't really gotten anywhere. We are currently not allocating enough investment in education in this budget either. We have just had a question in Question Time about the creation of a single-school ballet, art and whatever kind of joint school, because it is wanted to be added to the state gymnasium. Is that a reasonable investment? Is this an investment in education, which in future will bear percentages in terms of innovation and a skilled workforce? Here are the question marks in the air. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U169	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U170	These question marks are the reason I came to this remote control. I would like to point out that we are dealing too much with this kind of accountability and self-confidence, but at the same time we see that we have actually stopped developing innovation. The security risk of our ID card is an example of this. It's not that we had a faulty ID card delivered to us. That's one half of the problem. The other side is that the procedures for updating this same card have been blocked by too many people. This means that we do not actually have e-ability, digital capability to the extent that we squeak around the world, presenting ourselves as some kind of powerful guide. We don't have it. This shows that our innovativeness has stagnated. We are talking about the Internet as a human right. I can't use this human right in my country living, which is that broadband is buried somewhere 1.5 km off the highway in a ditch. I can't use it, because I'm not gonna build that 1.5-mile connection for my money. It's too expensive for me. If we look at the matter on the other side, when we talk about money, money is an unpleasant issue, but unfortunately we cannot get over it or around it, then we need to talk about what we are seeing in the negotiations of coalitions all over Estonia. It's insane greed. It's insane greed! The managers of small municipalities want to receive a salary of EUR 3000 or 350. The chairs of the councils want to receive a salary of EUR 2500 or 3000. And then we don't have the money to buy some very important device for children's hospitals or cancer patients! Or the health insurance fund, which has been essentially on the verge of bankruptcy for a long time, refuses to pay expensive medicines for some cancer patients. But the money to make sure that once the characters who have already had a golden handshake start getting a high wage, often higher than ours, is paid in Estonia. And if you think it's in harmony with people's sense of justice, you know it's not. This is not in line with this and is also not in line with the aim of bringing the country on the path of innovation. I have already asked from this remote control once: where is Estonia Silicon Valley? Where are our new innovative solutions, technological innovations, invented? I can't see them anywhere. However, I hear that the European Union has praised us. To be honest, I do not give a shit about whether or not the European Commission praises us. What matters to me is that Estonia is really successful, not just successful in propaganda. With propaganda, however, asphaltiers do not finally patch up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U171	There's no more calls. I shall close the negotiations and also close the debate on this item. Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U172	Sixth item: First reading of the draft Act 523 on Support for Enterprise and Amending the National Guarantee of Loans, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urve Palo, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, will be the rapporteur for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U173	Let me remind you that the questioners can ask twice. Well, the Hatter's gonna take that opportunity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U174	Thank you very much, Minister, for your presentation and your answers. Raivo Põldaru, Member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U175	Good vice chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission discussed the draft Act on Enterprise Support and Amending the State Guarantee Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, on 23 October. This draft was presented by Minister Urve Palo and Head of the Economic Development Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Kaupo Friday. Questions were asked to the members of the draft and answers were also received. It was decided to put this bill on the plenary agenda by today, 8 November, and to propose that the first reading be stopped. It was also proposed to set a deadline of 10 working days, i.e. 22 November, for amendments to be tabled.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U176	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 523. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 523 amendments on 22 November at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U177	Good evening, good members of the Riigikogu. Dear Vice-Chairman, The purpose of this draft is to enable more companies to realise their plans and more people to actually acquire or renovate their homes. However, it is necessary to increase the limits on guarantees for corporate and residential loans issued by SA KredEx. The limits on corporate and housing loans, as set out in the current Act, are being met due to the growth in loan volumes and need to be increased to ensure new loans. According to KredEx's forecast, the thresholds that we currently have will be exceeded because of the increase in demand for business loans over the next year and for housing loans already this year. KredEx would not be able to secure any more loans if it were filled up. At the same time, the amendment of the law does not automatically increase the volumes of KredEx loans and guarantees, as well as the loan limits, but creates the capacity to transfer loans and guarantees in the coming years. Paragraph 19 (1) of the Act states that the total amount of guarantee agreements for business loans in force may not exceed EUR 160 million at any time and that the total amount of guarantee agreements for housing loans in force may not exceed EUR 96 million at any time. The maximum guarantee obligation, which also takes into account the offers in force, was 128 million euros in guarantees for business loans as of 30 September this year and 88.9 million euros in guarantees for residential loans. Perhaps with the guarantees on housing loans we are reaching the legal limit and, in the case of business loans, we are talking about creating capacity for KredEx so that they can continue to provide support. Due to the expected increase in the portfolio of guarantee contracts over the 2017-2022 period, it would be necessary to increase the maximum volume of existing guarantee agreements for business loans by EUR 60 million, i.e. EUR 220 million and the maximum volume of guarantee agreements for residential loans by EUR 74 million, i.e. EUR 170 million. This forecast is based on the strategic planning of KredEx and the interpretation of the 2016 results. The volumes are growing significantly as KredEx signed a cooperation agreement with market leader Swedbank almost a year ago and the reconstruction of apartment buildings has increased. The new thresholds are based on a scenario whereby the economy will grow moderately in the coming years, i.e. neither cool nor hot. It is important to note that KredEx's capital is sufficient to raise the limit values. The increase in the maximum amount of guarantee contracts does not require any additional capital allocation if the current equity standards do not change. The main applicants for KredEx's corporate loan and guarantee are micro and small enterprises. The maximum guarantee granted by KredEx is up to EUR 5 million. This option is used by companies wishing to expand or start their own business but which do not have sufficient collateral. For example, last year KredEx guaranteed and financed 430 companies in the amount of EUR 95,6 million, while 349 companies' existing guarantee contracts were amended. In total, KredEx's support allowed the banks and KredEx to receive additional financing of EUR 173,1 million. A total of 8225 people worked in the supported companies and projects are expected to create 868 new jobs. The mortgage guarantee is issued by KredEx with a maximum amount of up to 20000 euros, especially for young families with minor children and young professionals up to 35 years of age. Up to EUR 50000, KredEx also guarantees energy-efficient housing buyers who acquire at least a C-energy class. The maximum guarantee is 24% of the value of the guarantee, which allows the loan to be obtained at a lower self-financing rate. In total, last year the banks issued housing loans amounting to EUR 959 million, which is about 100 million more than in 2015, and KredEx's guaranteed loans amounted to EUR 183 million. In 2016, the volume of housing loans with KredEx guarantee amounted to 19% of the volume of housing loans issued in Estonia. Perhaps one in five housing loans will be granted in Estonia with KredEx guarantee, which will make a total of circuit 2000 loans per year. The volume of guarantees for housing loans issued by KredEx last year was 25,4 million euros, which is 7.5 million euros more than in 2015. By the end of 2016, the guarantee portfolio amounted to EUR 49,6 million. With the help of the loan guarantee, 2605 households were acquired or renovated in 2016: 1153 young families, 1324 young specialists, 15 veterans and 113 energy-efficient housing buyers. Since 2000, by now, in 16 years, KredEx has improved its living conditions to 27155 households. In the case of housing loans, KredEx will charge a guarantee fee once and this amount will amount to 3% of the guarantee amount. In the case of business loans, the remuneration is quarterly and represents 2% of the balance of the guarantee. The KredEx entrepreneurship and housing loan guarantee programme is self-sustaining and does not require state subsidies. Once again, the implementation of the law does not entail any direct additional state budget costs, as it is an increase in the statutory guarantee limits, but it is an increase in the volume of State-guaranteed liabilities. At the same time, the legislative amendment will make it possible to secure loans to a larger number of companies and to a larger extent, which will contribute to the expansion of companies' activities or to making the work process more effective and to finding and realising new solutions. The amendment also allows residents with limited financial means to acquire and modernise housing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U178	Aivar Kokk opens a round of questions for the minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U179	Good manager! Good minister! I have a simple question. KredEx, I understand, has abused the situation a little: they have already distributed 100 million support for renovation of apartment buildings. Does this law have anything to do with the situation created by this KredEx? In the following years, housing associations in rural areas cannot actually apply for money because KredEx simply made a decision and distributed several years' money in one year. Is there any way we're going to have to go national and start guaranteeing some kind of loan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U180	Thank you for your question. No, they have nothing to do with each other. What we are talking about here is that people can get help in acquiring or renovating their homes. You don't have to be a housing company for that. A private individual may also apply for the guarantee of the part of the dwelling that the bank requires as an equity if it does not have one. These are different things. However, housing associations also use this option, which in turn borrow from banks in order to renovate houses. If they do not have their own shares, they will also be able to take advantage of this opportunity. But what you're referring to is another program. Indeed, KredEx received a total of EUR 102 million for this budget period of the European Union, which is many times more than ever. That's about 25 million a year, given that the period is five years. The first year actually took four years to develop and implement the measure. So we are talking about EUR 25 million and a little after a year, which is a very large volume. This is about the volume that the market can absorb in such a way that prices do not rise when there are many specialised construction companies that are specifically involved in renovating apartment buildings. KredEx had two options when it opened the measure in its day. Very often, the amount is distributed over the years and applications are accepted for a certain amount each year. In my opinion, this would have made sense in this case, too, if the applications had been accepted for 25 million a year and no more. On that occasion, KredEx decided to do differently. I've been asking why. They said they didn't see in their main analysis that this program was going so well. They thought that there would be enough money, perhaps for five years, that these statements would come at a calm pace. But the housing companies were very good. It took time to start the first year, but then they finished their projects and the applications to almost 100 million came out in a very short time. Although KredEx has actually paid up only 23% of this 102 million today. Over 80 million have been paid off. It will be on the market next year and the following year. So the money is not running out, but this activity gives the impression that it is over: the applications have been accepted and no more applications are currently being processed. But it would not make sense either, because once again, 40 million or more will come on the market in the next two years. I think that the time when housing associations need additional funding again, I will look at you as well, good members of the Riigikogu, so that you will be kind when handling the budget, is the year 2020. At least then it could already be so that it can be processed in 2019. At that time, it's actually gonna be a hole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U181	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U182	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! My question is motivated by the question of my colleague, Mrs Koka. I dare say we're out of money. Once the decisions have been made, the money is actually gone. Reconstruction of apartment buildings is an extremely effective measure. This measure has been very well implemented and organised and, in fact, demand for it remains very high. And if the state still puts up 20% to 30% and the rest is ready to put in the housing associations themselves, then it is also a very cost-effective and very efficient use of money for the state. My expectation is that those who have not been able to apply today will still have the opportunity to submit this application before 2021 or 2022. It will also take time to process the application in all processes, design, etc. My proposal is to find additional money for KredEx in the next year's budget in case of very good revenue receipts, so that they can continue to accept requests for the reconstruction of apartment buildings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U183	Thank you. You, honourable member of the Riigikogu, are well aware of the private sector's activities, you have worked there yourself. Let's do this calmly, and I'll say again that part of the money has not been paid out. This money, I say again, it's not over. In KredEx's bank account, there is 80 million euros, how is it out when it's there? in the next two years, which will only be paid out to housing companies. $80 million is a lot of money! I repeat myself: the market's absorption capacity is about 25 million a year. All right, let's say 30 million new players come in. But we're talking 40 and more million now, which comes in one year, because 80 million has been paid off. Putting at least 40 million into the next year, if we know that at least 40 million will be paid, with more money, would be relatively irresponsible. In this case, the construction prices would simply go so high that ultimately we would do the same amount of work for much more money, or even less. Since there is so much money, it would be an opportunity for those bidders who may not be doing quality work, but everyone wants everything at the same time. Once again, this is the apparent lack of money caused by KredEx's earlier decision. They did not distribute these funds over the years, but thought that applications would come at a calm pace. They could not foresee such a pace of application. Money is not out, but I agree with you that in any case, it is very important to finance the renovation of apartment buildings in Estonia in a stable manner. And it is regrettable that this money was not distributed over the years that would have been stability, but we cannot turn back history. The work will continue in the next year and the next year, and will be repeated in larger volumes than before. But like I said, money would be needed in the 2020 budget. The applications could, of course, be received earlier, I agree with you because it will take time to process and everything. So, for example, if we process the next or the next year's budget and this money is foreseen for 2020, then it will also be possible to start processing these requests again. But we also have to take into account that we are talking today about European Union funds, a total of 102 million, but we do not yet know what the possibilities are for the new budget period of the European Union. Before we put public funds in it, it makes sense to understand what funds are coming from the European Union. There is a very high probability that these projects will continue, because the European Union also considers all this energy saving issue to be important. But, yeah, first we need to figure out what's coming from there. What could be said here again is that about 7% of all old apartment buildings have been renovated in Estonia today. When 7% is done, over 90% more needs to be done. But that doesn't mean that the members of the Riigikogu and the government are kind, we work together, we put billions on the market at once and we do it 93% in the coming years. It does not make sense, it must be done in a stable manner and it must be continued every year, and I agree with that. But it cannot be done immediately, because this need is just so great and 25 years have gone too slow. So we're now getting 102 million, that is, extraordinarily large resources, for almost four years, and it would be good if we could keep up this pace, so that we still have 25 to 30 million a year. For that, I hope, we stand together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U184	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U185	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I understand from the explanatory memorandum that this draft will increase the volume of State-guaranteed liabilities. How big does this sum up to change the size of the country's commitments, perhaps how much money are we talking about? Can you also give examples of activities to date, of the share of bad loans, in what way has this affected our state's resources?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U186	As I said at the outset in my speech, liabilities will increase accordingly, i.e. the share of entrepreneurship loans by 60 million euros and the share of housing loans by 74 million euros. So when you add up these two numbers, you get the overall increase in the loan volume. This increase really comes from the fact that KredEx once set the volumes, then started to go back and issue loans, but very many loans are still outstanding. The portfolio has just grown in time. If we now say that we are not going to continue with this, then we must shut down these projects or lose them. But is it reasonable that we no longer support the expansion or creation of companies? When I first listened to the speeches of the honourable members of the Riigikogu, the representatives of the political groups, many said how important it is to contribute more to the growth of entrepreneurship and to our productivity. It's all for that. And the other half is to give people the chance to get their own homes anyway if they want to. If they have an income but do not have that share, then KredEx has met. I also think, however, that this is an important issue to continue with. But I don't have any statistics available at the moment on how much of these guarantees have gone behind the fence or failed. Probably nothing. None of the banks are gonna make it 100 percent. You never know that. KredEx always assesses the applicant for the loan or guarantee, makes its best decision. And once again, we're not asking for more money, it's not over. KredEx is self-sustaining precisely because of the sureties they receive, they "serve" what they do. I'm not asking for more money because they're self-sufficient, they can handle themselves. However, as this draft increases the volume of the country's debt obligations, Parliament needs to say its word on whether we agree with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U187	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U188	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You said you had a part to play here on the veteran loan guarantee. Who will be considered a veteran in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U189	We have a definition of Veteran. I'm afraid I can't tell you this by heart right now, but it's a separate concept. That's how KredEx has taken it. I should start looking for it here, I owe you an answer right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U190	Toomas Kivimägi, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! I, on the contrary, say you should just ask for more money. I come to this very subject of reconstruction of apartment buildings. I'm saying we're out of money. If these decisions have already been made in the amount of EUR 102 million, the money is still running out, despite the fact that the work is being carried out in 2018, 2019 or 2020 as well. Perhaps in order for us to be able to continue these works in 2020, additional funding for the reconstruction of apartment buildings would also be needed next year. I say it's more cost-effective when we look at the beneficiaries. I do not want to open Pandora's box, but compared to the reconstruction of apartment buildings with the public rental houses programme, the number of beneficiaries per EUR 1 put in the country is higher. Maybe this would actually be the place to take the money, because there's demand. I wouldn't worry about the market, as I estimate the volume of the Estonian construction market to be 2 billion euros. In addition to this, EUR 40 million is not very much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U192	Thank you very much. What I still argue with a member of the Riigikogu is the minister's employer; a member of the Riigikogu is always right. But here's the question, is the glass half full or half empty? Once again, I see $80 million on KredEx's account. You have a right to your opinion, all right. In this case, of course, we are dealing with a completely different bill. We do not process the bill for rental dwellings or the draft for insulation of apartment buildings. We can discuss this in the context of another bill. In itself, the last two things are completely different, which you are right to commit in this way, but I personally would not dare to do in any way. These are different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U193	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U194	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister, I share your view that renovation of apartment buildings is a very important programme. But you brought the number here that only 7% of them have been reconstructed. In order not to give the wrong impression, I say that there is actually a great deal to be done without the help of KredEx. Do you have so-called gross statistics on how many renovations are done with the help of KredEx and how many of them are made by cooperatives themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U195	However, most of them have been made during these years with the help of KredEx. That 7% of the total market I said out there is this year's spring information. Of course, it changes a little every day, because there is a lot of construction now and I repeat again that 80 million are still coming to the market, which will certainly raise this percentage higher. But we still have a long way to go. And I'm really glad we're finally going down that road. Previously, the state did not foresee as much opportunities for the reconstruction of apartment buildings as is currently the case. I also like the way KredEx behaves. I criticised their decision earlier to cover all their applications at once and to create a seeming lack of money, but they have learned from past mistakes. They have certainly done the right thing: if houses were allowed to be partially reconstructed in the old days, such as windows, ventilation systems, etc. were not required to be reconstructed, then a full reconstruction is now required. There must be proper projects. And if the apartment building has been reconstructed with the resources of KredEx during the current budget period, you can be sure that this has been done properly. It has become a modern ventilation system, the indoor climate has changed etc. We do not face the fact that, in years' time, there will be humid air and a worse living environment. In this sense, it is good that KredEx has learned. I hope he doesn't bet on one year next, and he doesn't create an artificial lack of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U196	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U197	Thank you, good minister. I don't know if you've talked to TPI scientists, but insulation and renovation of apartment buildings are a crucial measure. I went to talk to them about a month and a half ago. We went through all these things. I agree with this that the fact that KredEx provides money only for projects that have been carried out on the basis of the corresponding standard project or its specification is only possible and correct. But do you really want to assure us today from this remote control that there will be money in the coming years? TUT researchers who are in daily contact with KredEx confirmed that the money for renovating apartment buildings is out. For their part, they also said that it would really be a good thing to raise even the money of its rental homes to renovate apartment buildings, because its efficiency is significantly higher. I would like to ask once again how to proceed with the renovation of apartment buildings and whether you are going to apply for more money if it is not for the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U198	Good member of the Riigikogu! Let me remind you that you came a little later, maybe you didn't understand exactly what we're dealing with right now. We are dealing with draft law 523, i.e. the draft law amending the law on business support and state guarantee of loans, which in no way concerns your question. But I will tell you with good will, even though your question is off topic, I will answer you that KredEx currently has an outstanding circular of EUR 80 million out of 102 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U199	Thank you. My question is driven by the answers you have given in this Chamber today, and also by the previous item on the agenda. The Auditor General pointed out the concern that we depend too much on European Union funds. You, too, argued that you could not yet begin to plan your future, because you do not know the amount of European Union funds in the next budget period. Does this mean that you have not started negotiations with the Ministry of Finance within the Ministry to look for ways to ensure that good practice is not interrupted? Could the Estonian state not come to the aid of its own resources or resources and find objects that deserve more investment than European Union funds, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U200	No, it doesn't mean that. I have understood that it is reasonable to use European Union funds if they can be used. But with the European Union's resources, they usually have labels on where they can and cannot be used. With our national budgets, we can be more flexible and creative. So it just seems reasonable to me when we know what European Union funds are coming. And if they are coming to this sector, we can use our public funds elsewhere. But today I do not know which European Union funds will come in the new budget period and where they will go in the sector. The negotiations are still pending. I'd love to be a hiromant, but I'm sorry I'm not. So I consider it reasonable to consider that, if European Union funds are available in some area that is important for us, these funds should be used first and foremost, and the state budget funds should be diverted. If they do not come into this sector, as I said, the probability is high, because the European Union attaches importance to energy savings as such, then I hope to cooperate with you, the good Members of the Riigikogu, the good MPs. After all, you're finally putting together a budget, approving it. I hope that you will be be benevolent and favourable when the government proposes to channel state budget resources into this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U201	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U202	Good manager! Good Minister, I agree with you one hundred percent that KredEx made a mistake at the same time shared the money. In the coming years, there will be money on the market that is now being distributed. Perhaps the prices of all objects have artificially increased because all offers had to be made in one year. At the same time, KredEx also requires the construction supervision that it has mentioned, the price of which is much more expensive than the actual market price of construction supervision. Here's the question. We are currently dealing with a bill that gives KredEx more rights and opportunities. Can we really trust KredEx? After all, he has abused our trust and made wrong decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U203	This decision is in your hands, of course, but KredEx makes a lot of decisions every day and has done a very good job. Well, we all get lost from time to time, but this mistake doesn't concern this bill. If you have any other information, please let me know. I do not know that there would be any problem with housing loans or guarantees for corporate loans. I'm here with bill 523. If we are talking about a completely different subject, which is currently completely off-the- agenda, they made their decision in the best sense of knowing that it would be wise to open this round at once. Later, it turned out that it was not reasonable for all of us to make mistakes. I hope that they have learned from it, as they have learned before: a general reconstruction is now required. We're all human.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U204	Thank you. For the sake of accuracy, it is said that this $80 million, which is at KredEx's expense, is not free money. This is the money covered by the commitments, which primarily concerns the renovation of apartment buildings, but okay. Since you did not want to answer whether or not you would also put your effort into giving KredEx more money to renovate apartment buildings in the coming years, I will ask you within the framework of this draft. The desire is to raise the limits. Can you tell us, then, before raising something, it would be very good for members of the Riigikogu to know the volume of loans or guarantees that KredEx has soured? It's very important to know how much has gone sour. If, at this time, there is a desire to increase and increase money and it is said that we are full of volumes, then we should know the risk we are taking with this decision to the state and to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U205	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U206	I have no answer to that question. If you want, I can send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U207	seventh item: First reading of draft Waste Act 495 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Siim Kisler, Minister for the Environment of the Chair, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U208	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft Waste Act has been prepared in the framework of the codification of environmental law and replaces the current Waste Act and the Packaging Act. The main objective of codification is to organise the existing law, but there are also some substantive changes to this draft which have been made in the light of the experience gained with the implementation of the laws in force to date. The 'polluter pays' rule remains applicable. One of the most important changes in substance affecting the general public concerns the evolution of the price of the organised municipal waste transport service. In order for people to be motivated to collect waste by type, it must be cheaper to dispose of waste collected by type than to dispose of waste collected in a single container. Of course, this bill also leaves an important role to the local government, which organises the shipment of waste on its territory. Similarly, companies providing waste management services and housing associations will have to record the fees for mixed municipal waste and for separately collected waste separately to the waste shipment account so that the person is clearly aware of what he or she is paying and how much he or she is paying. In determining the price of the organised waste shipment service, account should be taken of the fact that, on the basis of the volume of the same collection tank, the fee for waste collected by type of waste may be less than 50%, but may not be more than 20% of the charge for collecting mixed municipal waste in waste paper and cardboard waste. This is a concrete measure by which the state will provide waste managers with regulation for increased taxation of mixed municipal waste. The second amendment concerning the transport of waste stipulates that, where a local authority designates a waste management site in the procurement documents for an organised shipment of waste, a separate public procurement to find a facility must be carried out first. The new law also harmonises the appearance of public packaging waste collection containers according to what material packaging waste is collected. This is not stated in the current law. Practice has shown that containers of different colours can cause confusion in people. Upon the entry into force of the Act, new packaging containers for paper and cardboard packaging must be blue, glass packaging containers must be green and mixed packaging containers must be yellow. So the collection system becomes much clearer visually. There is no need to recolour already existing collection tanks, as this would entail significant costs for packaging companies. There are also changes in the organisation of the collection and recovery of waste old tyres, waste batteries and accumulators and WEEE from private households. Producers of these products will subsequently be obliged to join or enter into a contract with a producer responsibility organisation. So far, it was voluntary. The requirements for financial security for producers and producer responsibility organisations are also specified. Several changes have been made to reduce the administrative burden on waste operators. Firstly, the hazardous waste management licence is waived as an authorisation. In the future, the requirements underlying the hazardous waste management licence must be fulfilled upon obtaining a waste permit or registration for the treatment of hazardous waste. Until now, a company handling hazardous waste had to have both a treatment licence and a waste permit, although their procedure was largely duplicated. There are also changes to the validity of the waste permit. While the waste permit was granted for a period of five years, the draft states that it will continue to be open-ended. However, in certain cases a waste permit with a deadline can also be granted. For example, if requested for a limited period. It is also possible to apply for a national waste permit for the collection and transport of hazardous waste and for the operation of waste plants. Under the current law, a waste permit for the collection of hazardous waste must be applied for for for each county. Thus, if a company collects hazardous waste in every county, it needs 15 waste permits and has to submit 15 waste reports. From now on, one is enough. In summary, the implementation of the draft as a law has a positive impact on the environment. And it is also very positive that the administrative burden on businesses will be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U209	Any questions for the waitress? Yes, it is. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U210	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. I'm going to ask a "normal person" question. How does it affect the fact that we have invested in waste plants and sorting plants when we conclude the Waste Act? Is there a change in the situation? Maybe it was in the explanatory memorandum, I didn't know how to look.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U211	I must say that this draft is, above all, the result of the codification work. The Waste Act and the Packaging Act have been renegotiated and put together in a single text. The draft is quite conservative in this respect, and the most important changes I have read here. He doesn't have much influence on the big picture. As I said, the administrative burden on businesses will be reduced. In particular, it is essential to influence the collection of municipal waste by type through pricing, as well as the use of solid-colour containers in public places. But I have to say that this bill does not bring about any major changes in the situation. It is true that some amendments have also been discussed in the Committee on the Environment. For example, the question of whether the disposal charge could be further increased, as I emphasised, is certainly not foreseen by the draft in order to force more waste to be recovered in order to further reduce the disposal. Although it has to be said that in Estonia, things have been very good with landfilling lately: after investment in the incineration of waste and in the production of waste fuels, we have dropped this percentage of municipal waste that is being deposited to 7%. This is a very good indicator in the European context and we have fallen very drastically thanks to these investments. This draft will certainly be discussed in the Committee on the Environment, but probably also at second reading in the large Chamber, whether to implement additional measures to channel even more waste into recovery rather than landfilling. If possible, they should also be recycled instead of incineration: these materials should not simply be turned into an oven, but should be re-used by species in circulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U212	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Municipalities Association and the Cities Association have not coordinated the draft law. And one of the reasons for not coordinating is that the draft law does not have an impact analysis. Why has the impact analysis not been included, or why has it not been included in the explanatory statement? Is it real? Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U214	I can't tell you what further impact analysis would be necessary. Perhaps the municipalities had some specific measures in mind. But I think there was a chapter 6 in this explanatory memorandum, and I'll take a quick look. Yes, if you look at it, the explanatory memorandum contains chapter 6 'The Effect of the Law'. The impact is presented here by changes such as the withdrawal of the hazardous waste management licence, the conversion of the waste permit to a permanent period, the content and renewal of the waste management plan, 6.4, etc. In chapter six, these effects have been dealt with one by one. I know that the municipal associations have also discussed the issue of how the municipality organises waste management: whether it can do so through a municipal company, whether it can implement the in-house rule in public procurement, etc. This series of topics has usually been discussed with local government associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U215	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U216	Thank you. Good Minister of the Environment! I have two short questions that can be answered for a little longer. Firstly, since this draft is part of the codification, did any changes relating to waste taxes have been carried out in the course of this codification? What plans do the government have for the future? Secondly, I read with great interest in this explanatory memorandum that the aim of the draft is also to reduce administrative burdens. Perhaps you could give some concrete examples of how we will reduce the administrative burden in waste management? I'm very interested in this subject. In short, future taxes on waste management and the administrative burden of two specific things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U217	I also addressed the issue of administrative burdens in the original speech, but then I will go over it again. Firstly, the hazardous waste management licence is waived as an authorisation. In the future, the requirements underlying the hazardous waste management licence must be fulfilled upon obtaining a waste permit or registration for the treatment of hazardous waste. Until now, a company handling hazardous waste had to have both a treatment licence and a waste permit, although their procedure was largely duplicated. The waste permit is granted on the basis of the law in force for a period of five years, but the draft provides that the waste permit will continue to be open-ended. For the collection and transport of hazardous waste and for the operation of waste plants, a national waste permit can be applied for in the future. Strangely, according to the law in force, the situation continues to be that when a company operates in different counties, a separate permit must be applied for for for each county. If he is active in 15 counties, 15 permits must be applied for, which probably is no longer practical in today's Estonia, then one is sufficient in the future. These are certainly positive changes for the company. As far as the fees are concerned, as I have pointed out here in reply to the Urve Title, there are no amendments to this bill. But during the discussion of this bill in the Riigikogu, it will certainly be an option to double the deposit fee, for example, which is to be raised from EUR 30 to EUR 60 per tonne. These ideas have been discussed, but there is no official proposal at the moment. And are there also charges for incineration and/or the production of waste fuel? The question is that we also have the aim not only to recycle waste by incineration but to recycle it more. It is also an obligation from the European Union, and the target proposed for us in Right now we're around 30%. The question is whether we need more radical measures to achieve this objective. I have received a mandate to represent the government in the text of this draft. However, I would probably propose in the Cabinet to discuss whether further amendments will also be tabled by the Government on this draft law, which is currently conservative and, above all, on codification.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U218	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U219	Good manager! Good Minister, you've written a great novel. But its most important implementers, the Union of Cities and the Association of Municipalities, have not coordinated it. And there are very, very many comments. One is that you have actually welded together the Waste Act and the Packaging Act and you say that there are few changes. At the same time, there is also the drafting of the planned development of the Waste Shipment Act. You have written two major laws in one law, but at the same time, a major part of the law is in the process of being amended. Why are you rushing now? Why don't we wait for this so we can put the part of the waste shipment in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U220	First of all, I cannot take the credit for drafting this bill. First of all, this codification has been carried out by a large number of people, you will find their names on page 1 of the explanatory memorandum, from the experts of the University of Tartu to the officials of the Ministry. Secondly, I must admit that this draft was submitted by the Ministry of the Environment to the Government of the Republic at the moment the Minister was Marko Pomerants. So this is primarily the fruit of his great work. However, in the framework of this codification, it was agreed which of us will have laws in the field of the environment in the future. This issue was organised and resolved in such a way that it would make sense if the Waste Act and the Packaging Act were together. And here we are talking about the management of the waste shipment. I must admit that I do not have such information that it is intended to present the waste shipment law separately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U221	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U222	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Does this bill have any effect on the home consumer's wallet?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U223	Yes, it will, because if this law enters into force and new shipments of waste are made, then the shipper must indicate in his procurement the price he will charge to citizens, households for mixed municipal waste and for waste collected by type. As I pointed out earlier here, the disposal of waste collected by species must be at least 50% cheaper. It may also be zero or 1% of the cost of disposing of mixed municipal waste, but the price must not be the same. The point is that the waste carrier is currently billing the household in a single row. He says you're gonna pay for the waste so much. Thus, for example, housing associations do not have the incentive to collect waste by type. However, the pricing offered should help to ensure that those who sort or give away waste by type pay less, and those who put everything in mixed municipal waste pay more than others.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U224	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U225	Thank you. My question is based on the previous one. During the drafting of this bill, were other motivators also thought about making residents more aware and ready to sort out more? And how can we ensure that housing associations are also aware and motivated to install more of these containers? Is it excluded that there will be a waste shipper who will eventually dump all waste in a single container? Looking out the apartment window, you often notice that this sorting is of no use.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U226	It must be admitted that this draft does not expressly rule this out. But, as I described, I very much hope that, after the adoption of this law, discussions will also arise in housing associations: let us now agree that we will give away waste by type, then we will get the price down and we will start paying less. How does that motivate you? There will be a bill that shows how much you pay for the waste that has been discarded by type and how much you pay for mixed municipal waste. As for this collapsing after collection by species, a very large part of municipal waste is currently going to be burned in Estonia. And indeed, there is often a relatively wide range of waste. If they're going to burn them, that's the way it is. Therefore, in the course of the procedure for this draft, consideration should also be given to whether there should be an additional charge in the case of incineration in order to direct more waste collected by type to recycling rather than in the case of kilns with other types of collected or mixed municipal waste.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U227	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U228	Good manager! Good minister! Since you said that you do not know that the preparation of this part of the waste shipment carried out is currently taking place, I note that this is included in the annex to the explanatory memorandum. But I ask why there are even four deadlines for the entry into force of such an important and large law, the Boiling Waste and Packaging Act, if nothing changes. The first is 1 July (there is about half a year to adapt), then it is 15 August and 31 December, and finally, for another paragraph, 16 July 2020. Why so widespread entry into force when you said that nothing will change with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U229	However, I read and introduced a number of changes to the current laws, but I cannot keep a separate record of each change. I can sum up by saying that one reason may be that there are already 29 implementing acts on this draft, draft ministerial regulation. They must also be developed and prepared. So that could be one reason. And there are changes in other laws, not just two laws. That's probably one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U230	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U231	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I am asking the previous question from such a rate that it is expected that the waste shippers will then be able to submit price lists at higher prices if the consumer is not willing to sort the waste. How long is this reasonable transitional period for the consumer to be able to invest and get to sorting before the carrier wants to ram him with a higher tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U232	If new procurements are to be carried out, there must be a requirement. If the municipality organises a new procurement in a way that does not concern existing procurements, it is necessary to indicate separately in this procurement, where a price offer is also made, the amount of mixed municipal waste and the type of waste collected, respectively, to be charged to households. This difference is compared and the price applies equally to everyone. Then a person can, we call him the holder of the waste, at a price that is uniform in the region, see what investments he can make in order to give up more waste collected by type and to get the price paid down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U233	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. The presentation of the Steering Committee is made by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Environment Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U234	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you at the first reading of draft waste law 495 what took place in the Committee on the Environment. I will answer one question from outside the Committee on the Environment, which was put here by my colleague, Külliki Kübarsepp, and the answer of which was somewhat confusing. Very many Estonian waste handlers have sometimes even 4 to 6-chamber garbage trucks. Looking from the window, it really seems that the waste is simply poured into a car, but in fact, it depends on which button the driver of the garbage truck pushes, where the garbage goes. Perhaps by looking at the side, i.e. when you look at the shipment of waste from a distance, it seems appropriate to ask why I had to collect all the packages, glass or paper separately when a garbage truck arrives, the driver puts everything in one container. In fact, there are six more containers inside this one container. But it's a myth that lives day after day, and now it was a good opportunity to talk it out again. So the situation is definitely more complicated than it seems at first glance from the window. But now to the bill. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 September 2017 and prepared in the framework of the codification of environmental law. The purpose of the draft law is, in particular, to create, on the basis of the legislation governing the sector, the Waste Act and the Packaging Act, a harmonised legal instrument in terms of structure and content, which makes the legislation more systematic and easier to understand. The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft at two meetings: 9 October 2017 and 23 October 2017. At the first meeting of the Commission on 9 October, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment presented the draft and answered the relevant questions of the members of the Commission. At the meeting of the Commission on 23 October, the Minister for the Environment also gave an overview of the draft. At the same meeting, the Commission also proposed that the draft be sent to first reading and that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 4 p.m. on 8 December 2017. In addition to what the Minister has already proposed and introduced from this panel, I will mention the most important places that the Members of the Commission asked the rapporteurs about in two sittings and which were not asked about in this Chamber today. One very simple question was that what specific legislative changes will contribute to the separate collection of citizens' waste. Mr Ado Lõhmus, of the Ministry of the Environment, replied that, in addition to this draft, an amendment would be prepared which would give TVO targets for the collection of materials that would increase their motivation to come closer to the population. The question continued to be discussed. The European Union has committed the Republic of Estonia to recycling 50% of municipal waste, but what is the motivation for the local government to achieve this? The representative of the Ministry explained that the main purpose of this draft was codification, but further changes are still to be made which will increase the recycling of waste. As a result of these two responses, we agreed with the representatives of the Ministry that, before we proceed with this draft, we will wait for the additional proposals that the Minister for the Environment also spoke about here. The Committee on the Environment has unanimously decided that we will not only proceed with a draft for codification purposes, but will also await other substantive proposals. I would therefore stress that the deadline for amendments is almost a month, or 8 December 2017, which gives all parties the opportunity to improve with their ideas and thoughts the draft law that is on the table today. On the other hand, the Committee on the Environment has already agreed on Tuesday, a meeting for the new week with all parties, including the association of rural governments and cities, and organisations that have proposed amendments to this draft law and whose proposals have also been rejected. I will mention who has been invited to the meeting of the Environment Committee on Tuesday: the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Association of Estonian Waste Operators, the NGO of Estonian Electrical and Electronic Equipment Circulation, the Estonian Tire Association and MTÜ Tire circle. Thank you and good luck with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-08_U235	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want either. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 495. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments, as the rapporteur mentioned, at 4 p.m. on 8 December. We'll meet tomorrow morning at 10:00. Thank you for today's workday. See you and keep working! Closure of the sitting at 5.17 p.m.
