ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! I am opening the Tuesday session of the 4th working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. I'm also opening a microphone to hand over questions and drafts. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! On Thursday, the situation in Ida-Viru County will be discussed as a matter of national importance in this Chamber. In preparation for the discussion of this topic and at the same time studying the draft State Budget Act 2018, the ambassadors of the Free Party had a big question: in what extent has the national programme promised by the current government coalition for the development of Ida-Virumaa been drawn up? Is it ready? By examining the explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act, we found a wide range of amounts. Some of them have been allocated to support the development of cities in the region and investment grants have been specifically mentioned, including the Kohtla-Järve sports complex. So there are certain amounts. What, though, is the actual volume of this programme? What are the measures? Has this programme also been discussed with local authorities? What is the major objective that the programme aims to achieve? These are questions that have been signed by seven members of the Free Party Group and to which we expect a concrete response from Minister Jaak Aab. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U3	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to pass on an inquiry to the Minister of Finance. This is a possible intervention of state-owned enterprises in day-to-day policy. In Narva there are 50 companies in the territory of AS Nakro. It's an industrial area, an industrial park. Nakro Director Aleksandr Brokk is a well-known person, all prime ministers and presidents have come to see him. He has spent enormously on the power and money to bring investors to Estonia. Yesterday I talked to him for a very long time. Here's the situation. Our heat supplier is Narva Heat Network, which belongs to Enefit Energia, which in turn belongs to Eesti Energia. So it's a series of state companies. Narva Heat Network has now announced that it will increase the price of heat by 26%, with a coordinated price in 2015 and a reduction in 2017. Soon the companies started to say that there are going to be layoffs and dismissals. And, oh, this beauty, posters have appeared on the doors of companies, where all of this is accused of the Minister of Economic Affairs Kadri Samson, who does not deal with industrial areas and Estonian Energy at all, and Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Riigikogu. This is a clear violation of the rules: the state company has co-ordinated its activities with those who brought out these posters and did so skinily. If Koit Pikaro were sitting here right now, he would say briefly: 'Folks and bastards! ' I'm not going to talk about it here any more, so why talk about it, which is self-evident. All hope now is that the Minister of Finance will take his chances to put an end to this insane situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U5	On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries, and the management board decides how to deal with them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now a presence check. 85 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U6	Today's first item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre' presented by the Committee on the Environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I say so much about the progress of the procedure that you will all have the opportunity to ask a question to the rapporteur, and then there will be negotiations with representatives of all the political groups. Please, member of the Environment Committee, Valeri Korb, for a presentation on the speaker's desk!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U7	Ladies and gentlemen, The meeting of the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu took place on Monday 25 September. Mr Valeri Korb, Mr Kravtšenko, Mr Metsoja and Mr Mälberg, members of the Commission, and Ms Elle Kaur, Head of the Adviser-Secretariat and Vivi Older, adviser, took part. There was no Kalle Palling and Terje Trei. The second item on the agenda of the committee was proposed to review the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and appointment of a new member." Mr Vakra, Chairman of our committee, spoke at the meeting that the Committee on the Environment initiated the draft on 18 September 2017. The committee asked the political groups of the Riigikogu to present their candidates as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre. One candidate was nominated: the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance presented Mr Metsoja's candidacy. At its meeting on 18 September, the Commission decided, after the vote, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that Kalle Muuli be recalled from the KIK Council and that Mr Andres Metsoja be appointed as a member of the foundation council. According to § 117 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, this draft is discussed at a single reading and no amendments are tabled. The Commission decided to appoint Mr Valeri Korb, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur for the draft, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 10 October 2017 and then put to the final vote. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U8	The round of questions will be opened by Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U9	Thank you. Since there was probably a very lively debate on this draft in the Chamber in the meantime, I did not understand who was being recalled and who wanted to be replaced. Would you say the names again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U10	Thank you for your question. I understand that Mr Muuli's mandate as a member of the Council has ended with the end of his term of office as a member of the Riigikogu on 12 June this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U11	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations to the political groups if I so wish. That's not what you want. No amendments to this draft were tabled. Consequently, we can proceed to the final vote. Are we ready for the final vote? I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment 506. Please take a stand and vote. 73 delegates voted in favour, 1 against and 2 abstentions. Draft 506 of the decision of the Riigikogu "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre" submitted by the Committee on the Environment has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U12	Today's second item is an overview of the 2016 report by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. The Minister's report will last up to 10 minutes. Questions and answers follow. A member of the Riigikogu may ask the Minister one oral question. After the review and the answers to questions, negotiations will be opened, during which the representatives of the political groups will be able to speak. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Please, Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab! The microphone's open for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have an honourable obligation to present you with another annual report on the public service, in which I will give an overview of the number of government employees, labour costs, staff expertise, recruitment, selection and turnover, and development and training activities in 2016. A longer report is available to all of you, and I will focus my report on some important issues. The public sector is divided into general government and other public sectors. The general government, in turn, consists of three sub-sectors: central government, local government units and social security funds. The other public sector includes companies producing goods and services with the participation of the state and local government, such as Eesti Energia and Tallinn Airport, as well as Eesti Pank. In 2016, the public sector as a whole worked full-time equivalents of 132900 employees, of which approximately 88% were employed in the general government sector and 12% in the other public sector. The public sector accounts for nearly one fifth of total employment in Estonia, of which about one fifth is the public service. These are then people working with the authorities of the state and local authorities. In 2016, 28513 employees worked in the public service, of which in 20050 were officials, i.e. those to whom the state and local authorities have entrusted the exercise of public authority. As in most European Union countries, the working age population in Estonia is decreasing and ageing. We have set the target that the share of government employees in the overall working age population should remain within 12%. In 2016, the number of government employees fell significantly faster than the Estonian working age population: by a total of 1519 employees, or 1.3%. The number of employees in the public service decreased by 600, i.e. by 2.1%. At the same time, the state must not forget the need to be human-centred, both as a public service provider and as an employer, by constantly seeking to be self-analysed, efficient and transforming work processes. Therefore, it must continue to be ensured that the services provided by the State are available to all and substantive and that the employees employed by the State are valued. A person who is respected and who respects himself can also respect those to whom he provides a public service on behalf of a state or local government. The general government labour costs increased by 5.5% in 2016, and the average wage growth in the general government was 0.5% below the average wage growth in Estonia. If, in recent years before that, the increase in public sector wages was slightly faster, then it can now be said that public sector employees' wages are rising slightly slower than the average wage. Estonia's average gross monthly wage was 1146 euros in 2016 and 1158 euros in general government. So the latter's wages are at the average wage level in Estonia. The average salary of officials in 2016 was EUR 1493. In the Estonian labour market, wage differentials are quite large in different fields of activity. The difference between the highest paid (information and communication area with an average salary of EUR 1900) and the lowest paid activity (other service activities with an average salary of only EUR 617) is more than three times the average wage. As a result, the pressure on the market's wages also varies between public service bodies. There are also different wage levels in Estonia from one country to another. In Tallinn and Harjumaa, some in Tartu, wages are higher than elsewhere in Estonia, which in turn affects the wage levels of the institutions. In the general government, the ratio between average monthly wage and Estonian average monthly wage has improved in the areas of social protection and health care. In other areas, including public order and security and education, which are highlighted as a priority, the ratio between the average monthly wage and the average monthly wage in Estonia has remained the same and even deteriorated in some sectors. The Government of the Republic did not provide any money for the general wage increase by 2016 to the public authorities and, despite a significant reduction in the number of employees, it was not possible for the institutions to maintain wage competitiveness in the labour market. The comparison of purchasing power parity used for the first time in the public service annual report shows, among other things, how high purchasing power the average wages of target groups receiving the government's priority additional labour costs are compared to the average wage of the workers in the neighbouring countries. Restoring the competitiveness of public authorities' wages in Estonia in the context of the general labour shortage, including the pursuit of the right to pay within the public service, is one of the challenges facing the state as an employer in 2018. In implementing the policy of equality, the public service must be a pioneer. While the overall gender pay gap in Estonia was still very high in 20.9%, the overall gender pay gap of state agencies and government agencies is much smaller than the overall wage gap in the country. It was 9% in 2016. In fact, this means that if the average Estonian man earned 1 euro per hour in 2016 when working in a state institution, the average Estonian woman earned 91 cents in the same time when working in a state institution. At the same time, the overall pay gap does not take into account the responsibility of workers or the sector of activity. When we look at the horizontal pay gap, which also takes into account the responsibility and complexity of work, the pay gap at the initial level of responsibility of specialists was greater in national administrations and administrations. The gender pay gap was between 6.6% and 8.3% in the remaining groups of employees, from higher-level specialists to senior managers. However, the calculation of the horizontal pay gap has also not taken into account the activity of the employees, which is why, in order to determine whether there is a substantial pay gap, the work and remuneration data of each institution should be examined separately. The civil service workforce has also been balanced, with 56% women and 44% men. As with the general ageing of the workforce, the average trend in public service is still rising: in 2016, the average age of civil servants was 43.4 years. While the proportion of men and women in younger age groups is relatively equal, there are more women in older age groups. The proportion of men, especially young men, is higher in specialised services. However, the local authorities are quite elderly: almost half of the workforce is over 50 years old. The total staff turnover in the public service was 11% in 2016 and the voluntary turnover was 7%. In an organisation with top specialists, the 10% turnover of staff is considered to be optimal, which ensures a certain refreshing exchange of human resources, but does not jeopardise the organisation's institutional memory, expertise or cooperation between people and institutions. It is a pleasure to note that in the public service, staff turnover remains optimal. At the same time, the state and local authorities must make efforts to continue to be a well-known and desirable employer, creating good and flexible working conditions and providing interesting challenging work. In 2016, cross-public training and development policies were reviewed and the target group extended to the whole public sector. In order to better motivate and develop their employees, both state and local authorities increased the funding of staff training by more than 5% compared to 2015. The EU Structural Funds financed the central training of both senior managers and middle managers. The aim has been to improve the governance of public authorities and to be open to new innovative solutions. Overall: both this year and in the coming years, our challenge is to keep the number of government employees in line with the country's overall working age population. Maintaining a state apparatus too large is a burden on the taxpayer. In pursuing this goal, we will be helped by the ongoing reform of the state, which we hope to be able to deliver better and more modern public services in Estonia with limited resources, while maintaining a humane attitude towards all the people around us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U14	Küllik's Hatter asks the Minister the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U15	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You ended with the keyword'state reform'. Last week, the National Reform Radar gave the government a rather destructive assessment, or grade 1. Very clearly, it was argued that the government has no clear objective, that it does not foresee what Estonia could be like in ten years' time, that there are no priorities. The public service, or public sector, is very important for the reform of the state. The Confederation of Employers has also given very worrying signals that the public sector is too big compared to the private sector, so we cannot sustain our country in any way. At the same time, the challenges faced by the state, the local government and also the third sector in providing different services have not been discussed. Can you tell us which Estonian government today wants to see in 10, 15 or 20 years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U16	Thank you for your question. Yeah, a social college like the National Reform Radar gave me grades again last week. In any case, it is very welcome that people want to deal with this in their spare time. I have met them many times in the summer, and now I know that this grade comes every quarter. Let me remind you, this grade consisted of two parts. Administrative reform and rural government reform were awarded grade 4, state reform, yes, grade 1. It was explained, too. I wouldn't separate these things in any way, in fact, the administrative reform and the reform of rural governments are part of the reform of the state. In that sense, I don't understand these different grades very well. But you could say 4 plus 1 is equal to 5 when you try to comfort yourself. I also assure you that we do not in any way detest the contribution that the various forms of social formulation that make proposals to the state, and we will certainly take their views into account. There is a state reform agenda. On 18 October, the National Reform Coordination Board will meet, representing the top leaders of the various ministries. Let us discuss all the problems again, because the process is still under way. We are talking about the removal of state institutions from Tallinn, the implementation of the concept of state buildings in counties, the transfer of functions of rural governments to state institutions and local authorities. While I've been sitting in the minister's chair, I've been doing all this. I have also been to many counties so that this is the first part of the reforms that comes to a reasonable conclusion. It is clear that everyday problems occur all the time. As far as state reform is concerned, I am pleased that the Riigikogu has set up a Committee on State Reform and its chairman, Ivari Padar, was with me in front of the National Reform Radar. Ivari confirmed that they were in the process of several analyses, including one such central one. There will also be proposals coming out soon. The government has drawn up an action plan, which we are also monitoring. The activities listed there are taking place, but if there are good new proposals, we will certainly take them into account. The National Reform Radar also stressed that grade 1 has been set as an incentive to find more activities. Everything that goes on is not bad, but one could move forward more ambitiously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U17	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U18	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I remembered last year's Social Democrat campaign, for which I remember the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar. The aim was to attract people in other languages to work in the public sector and government institutions. Maybe I missed the ears, but I didn't hear anything from your report on this aspect. So how's this soccer campaign so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U19	Thank you for your question. My overview is the activities of 2016 and the relevant figures. As far as the current reform agenda is concerned, perhaps you should ask Indrek Saare more specifically. As discussed, training, increasing competence in different areas is ongoing. Is the Ministry of Culture separate, I can't tell you that. But, as I said, on 18 October, we will look at the activities of the various ministries in implementing this plan. Maybe that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U20	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this review. I would like to ask about the criticism that has already been voiced several times in higher education and research institutions that there are too few specialists involved in our public service, people with a doctorate. What's the reason? Could the lack of flexibility in our civil service work be one of the reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U22	Thank you for your question. The civil service concerns the smallest part of the public sector employees exercising power. If the honourable questioner had in mind this narrow circle, I note that, in my opinion, the human resources policy in the various administrative areas is that it is trying to hire people with the best possible education and the best possible preparation at all. As far as the wider public sector is concerned, which is much bigger, there may still be untapped potential. But that's a good point and a good question. I am sure to point out that, in the coming periods, perhaps the next year, the report will also pay attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U23	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U24	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, When the so-called "super ministry" was planned, it was discussed that the new common physical environment would provide a good opportunity to make services in different ministries more effective. They talked about the legal service and also about communication. Now the ministries are working in a new building. How has the jointisation of the various services taken place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U25	Thank you, that's a good question. I guess we've always said that when we talk about administration or real estate and start comparing numbers, the Ministry of the Commonwealth will definitely have a certain effect. Of course, a comparison is being made between the current administrative costs and those that previously characterised these ministries. However, it must also be taken into account that the joint ministry has a very good working environment thanks to the investment made, and in the near future, there is no need for the ministries to make the investments needed in previous buildings. That's one angle of approach. And now the second, more substantive, question. I know that for about two years there were also negotiations on the consolidation of the various services. Administrative services and personnel and salaries had already been handed over from certain ministries to the State Support Services Centre in the past, and information systems also operate in one environment. The question has now been raised about the legal service, which could be common rather than the fact that each ministry has its own legal department. But this idea is only in its initial phase, there is no agreement yet. It has also been argued that very specific legal knowledge is needed in different areas. But it's not impossible to connect. For some reason, cooperation often starts to work out when people are physically put together. I can tell you that despite the criticisms that have been made about the Ministry of the Commonwealth, substantive cooperation will continue to improve if we are in the same building. More and more proposals are being made on how it can be further improved. This idea is in work and does not even have to give any instructions or commands to carry it out. People themselves are starting to cooperate more and more when they are located in one place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U26	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In 2014, the Riigikogu passed the Employment Capacity Allowances Act and on this basis the employment capacity reform was launched in mid-year. As part of this preparation, the Ministry of Social Affairs, together with the parties involved in the work capacity reform, made a goodwill agreement to employ thousands of workers with special needs in order to set an example for the private sector to serve in the public service for five years, i.e. in 2015-2020. That would be 200 people per year. How did it go last year? How did this figure turn out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U28	Thank you, that is also a very topical and legitimate question. I remember the time when the work capacity reform was launched and it was established that the state must also contribute to the work of people with reduced working capacity or disabilities. I know that there are many and very good examples. The Ministry of Social Affairs has implemented these people, and so have other ministries. As you all remember, there was a problem with one ministry. It was a question of whether a person with reduced mobility would even get there if someone needed to meet. But that's another subject. As far as the Ministry of the Commonwealth is concerned, I believe that this situation will also improve. We experimented with a particular young man who said he could do more or less there. The number you asked about is not included in this report, as far as I know. Thank you for the reminder on this subject. This is really one thing that could be included in the annual report on how the country has fulfilled this agreement and whether it has. I am indebted to a specific answer right now, but this could really be pointed out next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U29	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with the same question that Mr Jaanson has just asked. I also looked forward to you, as former Minister of Social Affairs, addressing this issue. Let me draw the Minister's attention here to the fact that this number is actually known, although it is not in your report. It shall be established each year. As of 1 January 2017, 3193 people with special needs were in employment, but these are certainly not new people who have recently been recruited. The number of new ones is definitely much, much smaller. My question is as follows. In addition to putting this figure in the next report, do you intend to keep an eye on this subject? You have a plan of action to do that. While the total number of people with special needs in central government institutions is only 4.5% of the staff, this is obviously low given their share of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U31	I think that's a very good question, just like the questioner's. We could consider it. We have analysis and monitoring all the time anyway, there are also concrete actions in the National Reform Action Plan. So we could at least ask for this information for the time being. Yes, somewhere in statistics this is reflected, but ministries could transmit their data by administration, and then we could see if we can increase this number and improve the situation. I'm really in favour of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U32	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The report also provides an overview of the staff of local authorities and states that almost half of the workforce is quite elderly, i.e. over 50 years of age. Today's 50-year-olds are known to be the new 40-year-olds in popular sociology. After the administrative reform, do you see such a development that this society is somehow rejuvenating? Is there such a need? Will there be fewer women and more men? And another issue that relates to the fact that we are striving for some kind of ideal development in this society. If we reduce the number of government employees at the same rate, will we move in line with the change in the number of taxpayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U34	Thanks for the questions. I'll start at the end, that answer's easier. If we look at the ratios relating to the decline of the working age population and the reduction of jobs in the public sector, the number of jobs has fallen faster, and quite significantly faster. I have comparative data on central government institutions for a period of one and a half years: 1 January 2016. 1 June 2017. During this time, the number decreased by slightly more than 1,400 people. We are talking about central government institutions, not the public sector at all. A little worrying is that a little over 800 jobs were reduced in Tallinn and a little over 600 in rural areas. Different processes are working: optimising and consolidating the VET network is underway, etc. Or take care services, for example. Many public sector jobs have disappeared in Jõgeva County. What's the matter? It's about closing down a vocational school and, as far as I know, closing down the Oriku nursing home. At all, jobs in some nursing homes disappear, but they move to modern nursing homes. The concern is that the removal of public authorities from large cities is not just a call and a slogan. We must certainly ensure that there are also public-paid jobs in the country and that the country is also present there. Now, as far as the 50 years are concerned, yes, the average life expectancy is increasing. Unfortunately, we do not have a good figure of healthy years, a figure that does not increase. Therefore, we must contribute more and more to health. I'm a little over 50 years old, and I'd still be working. Will the staff rejuvenate in the case of new municipalities? I think it will. All of this is very difficult to predict, but larger municipalities are going to organise competitions for their officials. Most of the workers currently employed there will be recruited at the first speed. It has been estimated that 8 to 10% of the number of employees in local governments will fall, not more. In the meantime, it has been suggested that there is going to be some terrible reduction. Rather, the effect of the administrative reform is that services will be provided by people who are as competent as possible and who can deal with a large part of one area. Currently, a local government employee is doing anything in a small area. If he or she can focus on his or her field, he or she will do his or her job competently and the person will get a better service. But there's nothing to do, it's a general direction. Since we are also raising the retirement age, older people are increasingly employed. And I don't think it's bad by itself. I wouldn't be making any plans around here to get 40 more than that average age of 50. But I guess it's up to every local government to do it. I just really hope that the people who work in local governments will be competent and will be able to provide assistance in the best way possible. Certainly the administrative reform of a certain effect, which will lead to more capable, larger and also more well-paid municipalities, will provide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U35	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U36	Thank you. Minister, thank you for this presentation. I have to admit, this review gets better every year. So congratulations also to the officials of the Ministry of Finance who are preparing this review! It is noted that this wage increase, or real wage increase in the government sector, has been many times greater for years than the government has allocated money for the wage increase. By 2016, when I am not deluded by memory, the government allocated money to a salary increase of 1 to 2%, but the average wage has risen by 7%. There have been mysterious internal reserves somewhere for years. Could you enlighten us on the future? The government has transferred the budget. How is the raise reflected? What is the salary increase next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U37	I can say here what budgetary decisions have reached the Riigikogu on payroll funds. If we look back a little bit in time, here, to monitor public sector wage growth and average wage growth, wage growth in the public sector was slightly above average wage growth until the beginning of last year. The increase in average wages was not very rapid at that time. Recently, Estonia's average gross wage growth has accelerated, and so most of the wage increases you mentioned were made at the expense of internal reserves. At least I think so. And you will see how much the number of officials has decreased. This is the main source that was used to raise wages. Well, he's like that, isn't he? In view of the situation on the labour market, the trend is that the wage growth of public employees is lower than the average wage growth in Estonia. At the same time, we know that there is strong competition on the labour market to get a workforce. We must keep this trend in mind, because we must not lag very much behind the increase in the average wage. If we miss this, the private sector will just pay for good specialists. This is, of course, a constant competition between the public and private sectors, and we must somehow balance the situation. This analysis showed that the so-called internal reserves have been used up in most cases. In fact, the number of officials has fallen seriously as early as last year and also this year. It's been one way to raise wages. At the same time, the border is beginning to rise. The decision concerning the following year is that no specific salary numbers will be prescribed for ministries, the amount they can raise the salaries of their employees. General decisions have been taken on the payroll fund. In the past, some of the economic money was somehow moved into the payroll, and now there is no chance. The payroll fund is precisely the payroll fund that has been put in place for ministries, and it is no longer possible to move there. The following year is expected to increase by around 2.5% in all areas of administration. In the field of internal security, the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and, in part, the Ministry of Finance, more specifically the Tax and Customs Board, there is an increase of 2% in addition to and in social welfare, as well as 2% in addition. These are also areas where labour is the most serious problem. If we look at the number of these officials, the decrease will also reflect the vacancy. The Police and Border Guard Board, which is under the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, has many vacant posts. People just can't get to work, even though we've been trying to raise their average salary at a faster rate. Still can't find people to work. We still need to prioritise these areas. That was the government's decision when he handed over the draft budget to you. These are the general increases in the payroll fund. The way in which one or the other ministry or authority operates within this fund is already their business.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U38	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U39	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have a question about the recruitment of officials and the elected. In this report, there is a very nice statement that it is important to ensure that the position is properly prepared and experienced, reliable and committed to the successful functioning of the country. ' We all agree. It is generally assumed that all persons taking up one or another post will have either a professional education or at least a basic knowledge of the field, and that they will be able to re-skill well as quickly as necessary. In the Committee on Rural Affairs, however, representatives of the EVEA recently spoke about the fact that very often small businesses experience the fact that an official body makes completely incompetent precepts to them. They cited the Food and Veterinary Office as an example. There is no advice at all and there is rather an obstacle rather than cooperation for development. What steps can be taken to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U40	Thank you for your question, it is very substantive. I cannot comment on this particular example. As far as competence and the flow of the frame are concerned, flowability is relatively reasonable, within 10%. As a result, there will be a new frame, fresh power will come, perhaps more competent people will be hired, and I think this direction is perfectly okay. The second topic is training. In the public sector, we must definitely look at the training that is taking place. Here, too, is the fact that we are trying to reduce the operating costs of the ministries, but the training of staff is very important. We cannot save so much that it is no longer possible to train staff. But general competence, I think, is still growing. At the same time, we have a problem that I have already mentioned that we cannot pay in the public sector what we would like to pay. We're gonna cut the costs in a row. If we pull too much of the payroll, we won't find competent people. There must be a balance in this regard. We must monitor the growth of Estonia's average wage and at least try to keep the same trend in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U41	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The state reform concerns the public service. I also thank you and the entire Ministry of Finance for this analysis and summary. One aspect of the state reform was addressed here. I agree with you that administrative reform is a very important part of this. There has been concern in this Chamber that we are working too quickly with the governments of the country. My question is about metrics in the context of three reforms: the reform of rural governments and municipalities and the removal of public authorities from Tallinn. The government's state reform paper shows that in an efficient country, the share of government employees is 12% of the working age population and does not increase, that the government sector spends at most 37,9% of GDP based on 2015 figures and that the number of officials of central government institutions in Tallinn accounts for 45% of the total official population. Evaluate these three metrics in the context of the reform, both present and future!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U43	First of all, from this last issue. If we look at the decrease in the number of jobs in the government sector, we can see that the proportion of Tallinn's official body is even slightly less than 45%. Like I said, the ratio is 800:600. We would like to move further, so that the share of state-paid jobs in other parts of Estonia would increase compared to Tallinn and Tallinn's share would decrease slightly. This is the direction we are trying to follow with the removal of some state agencies from the capital. As far as these other numbers are concerned, the overall direction is this way, as I said, that if we compare the number of working-age population with the number of officials, we are actually ahead of the target schedule. And if we compare the cost of the state apparatus with GDP, the share of the state apparatus is constantly decreasing. But there's got to be a reasonable line somewhere, and we have to make sure we don't cross it. After all, the question is how we can offer help or services to Estonian residents. They must not deteriorate. You know the complaining that certain public authorities or bodies managed by the state have completed their work in county centres or elsewhere in rural areas. This raises a lot of resentment, as services become less accessible. We will certainly monitor how the necessary services are. As far as county centres are concerned, the completion of rural government work has given rise to an incentive to map out how state institutions are located all over Estonia. There was talk about the so-called "common ministry" and that this is not only about real estate and the location of institutions, but also about substantive cooperation, which has so far been relatively fragmented. Each administration has developed its own field of work This is a rather complex issue and we are working on this development process. Throughout the summer, we have been mapping all this and trying to find a reasonable so-called spatial solution. For example, social representation offices, such as the unemployment fund and the Social Insurance Board, could be physically located in one place and could also provide services in one place by cooperating with each other. Some support services can be provided together. I can also give an example of the already mentioned legal service in the joint ministry building. You don't have to have a separate company of lawyers on the payroll in every institution. You can do this for the benefit of many.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U44	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U45	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I read in the report that average wages in Estonia are roughly twice as low as in Finland. Surprisingly, I saw that the life of the prison guards is the goldenest in Estonia: only 1.3 times the salary of Finnish colleagues. The worst situation is for the welfare people: the pay gap is threefold. Social welfare goes from the state budget, I understand, to some 2.2%. My question is, what's the status in a year? Will the prison guards be able to catch up with their Finnish colleagues with their wages as quickly as possible? And how is that tail determined? Should social welfare people, who are also doing very important work, not at least reach the same level as prison guards with their salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U46	Thank you for your question. As I said, there are two priority areas. I didn't mention one. Cultural workers and teachers have also gained quite a lot of money according to the coalition agreement. Their salaries are actually rising even faster than in the two areas I mentioned earlier, where 4.5% is added. Social welfare provides for an increase of 4.5% in the payroll fund, but practice has shown that wages have increased by more than 4.5% there. This ministry is trying to raise wages more using its internal resources. Well, I don't know, according to your objective or subjective assessment, it's pretty good, but there's always a shortage of staff. It's not exactly a job people want to go to. So even though the prison guard's salary is relatively good compared to other areas, these jobs still cannot be filled. It's also some kind of indicator. Consequently, this is one area where pay should be higher, nothing can be done. But I am certainly concerned about the salary of social welfare workers. This concern has been going on for a long time. I remember that from 10 to 12 years ago when wages rose a little. I hope that, now that this area has been prioritised, this will also be reflected in the rise in wages in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U47	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U48	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The reform of the state has been made a hush that actually has very little to do with the content and quality of services. But one big exception is education. I regret that the government is not talking about this aspect of school reform at all. The content of all education, the quality of learning and also the pay of teachers are largely behind the over-dimensioned school network. But something in this direction is still happening because of the European Union's money. Tell me why with the other hand you're improving real estate in the country! Yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, there was a draft on how the state will support the property of these schools to provide paid education and thus compete with the municipalities in difficulty with their schools. Now they're gonna take their kids away. With public money, education will be stratified, spraying costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U49	Thank you for your question. The structure of the education network, in my opinion, is still one of the most topical issues. We have several question marks in the air. I also deal with the local authorities, with their budgets and income bases, and I have to monitor this whole area of government. We've increased the municipal income base. After all, there has been talk of certain tasks being transferred to local governments. I understood your question well, but there is, in general, another question that I have raised in the government. Specifically, how this educational network will be developed in the local government. Is it the responsibility of the state or local government to provide upper secondary school education in the future? Right now, he's both one and the other, and as you pointed out, he's also a third party. So some kind of decision has to be made. I am in favour of the view that the municipality should have the right to decide on the whole educational network, including upper secondary school education, but such a decision has not yet been made at least in the government coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U50	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U51	Thank you. There was some talk about the poor salary of social welfare workers. I'm gonna ask you a little different about this. Recently, the average salaries of ministries became public, and such a crime emerged that the wages of the Ministry of Social Affairs have risen the highest in recent years, while a large number of workers in this sphere, who are actually in contact with people, caretakers, babysitters, supporters, operational supervisors, receive four times less, or only 25%, of the wages of the so-called leading forces. In other ministries, proportions are more normal, for example, the Ministry of the Interior employees earn 60% more than policemen, the Ministry of Education employees 70% more than teachers. How do you comment that there has been just such a development that, on average, staff and managers with papers are paid four times better than those who do the actual work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U52	Thank you for your question. When news came that the Ministry of Social Affairs had the highest salaries, I was surprised and looked into it a little bit. As far as I know, large hospitals, such as PERH and the University of Tartu Hospital, are also covered by this area, where on average wages are higher. I realized that, in my salary, it was not office workers who raised this average wage level, but, to a large extent, health care institutions that are state foundations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U53	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! You mentioned in your report that local authorities are getting more money, but they are also getting more responsibilities. When communicating with local government leaders, it has become apparent that they are confused. The total amount of tasks to be added will eat up any additional freely used money. Can you tell from that remote control how much more so-called free money will actually be available to municipalities? Another concern about the same issue is that, if the country raises the wages of cultural workers, the local authorities do not see such a decent increase in their budgets that the wages of local cultural workers can also help.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U55	Thank you for your question. As far as free money or not free money is concerned, we are talking about a revenue base which is basically an existing task and does not take into account any additional obligations. The revenue base, which is a certain percentage of personal income tax and the Equalisation Fund, will be around 190 million over the next four years. This is a very big step. After all, there has been a problem in the air that in 2009 the established proportion was seriously violated to the detriment of the municipalities and that it must be restored. So we're kind of restoring its proportion, which was then. I am referring to the personal income tax and fine-tuning fund in 2009. Life, of course, has made its corrections and, in fact, income tax is well received. So local government revenue generally grows nicely. At the time, we said yes that you would continue to carry out these tasks, but we also made a very painful cut in their wallet. Well, there was a time of depression, maybe it was to some extent justified, to what extent, we could argue about that. So there will certainly be more free money; this improvement of the revenue base will not lead to additional tasks. That's the free money coming next year. The revenue base is growing by around 9%. The total revenues of the municipalities increase by 12%, or 138 million, if I remember correctly. In addition, a number of additional grants have been granted in the field of education. These are support for the wage growth of kindergarten teachers, support for activities of interest and education of interest, support services. These are different grants for municipalities that organise these things and receive more money for this. The tasks that will be transferred as a result of the closure of the county administration will all be transferred with separate money. So this free income money you asked about isn't related to any additional tasks, it's just going to be an addition. This will greatly improve the position of certain municipalities in the coming years. At the same time, we want municipalities to be more able to organise their lives regionally. Several tasks go to municipalities to perform together throughout the county. For example, development, the development of entrepreneurship, we want the role of local governments to grow in it, and so we will allocate further resources to this in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U56	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U57	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned earlier that the government has not yet made a final decision on state secondary schools as to whether or not they will fall under the authority of local governments. But we know that the establishment, repair, construction of state secondary schools is underway. That's one. Secondly, in the process of administrative reform, schools need to know their future exactly how everything will be. When can schools find out what happens to state secondary schools, to whom they will be placed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U58	Thank you for your question. To answer when this question should be resolved, I don't know how. The programme of state secondary schools has been adopted in the past, with money being requested from the Structural Funds of the European Union, and this programme will be completed. Nobody's gonna change that. But the real question is, if state secondary schools are all built up in cities and counties, then who will be responsible for this school network. A fundamental political decision must be taken as to whether the network will remain in the hands of the State or whether the municipalities will take care of it. In the meantime, it has also been asked why certain vocational education and training institutions should not be part of the local, regional or local education network. Those questions are in the air. Unfortunately, I can't give you the answers right now, but these answers have to be found in this process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U59	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U60	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much for your review. The fact that very many of the responsibilities that apply to local governments are true is worrying and asks, even with some extra money, there may be a situation where there are very different possibilities for obtaining services in different parts of Estonia. I am thinking in particular of children with special educational needs, but also of care, where the organisation of the state currently provides people with a common quality and availability of services. This may not be sufficient and fully tailored, but to some extent it is. Are the municipalities prepared for all this? True, after joining, they are probably more ready than they are now, but still, has it been analysed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U61	Thank you for your question. I guess we've been taking these decisions all along, negotiating with the local governments. When we hand over these tasks, we talk about money, we talk about competence. However, I am not ready to answer you in such a way that everything is okay or that everything works right away. One of the major issues is currently supporting education for children with special educational needs, which will be transferred to municipalities on 1 January. I think that is basically right, because the municipality has had to deal with it either way in the ordinary school. I am referring to logos, support teachers and other specialists. This need has been uncovered. I cannot describe all of this to you in detail, you could ask the Minister for Education and Research about it, but, as far as I am aware, with the resources that are now going to the municipalities, the need for support services that have not been covered to date should also be covered. And there is also separate money available for support services. Training of children with special educational needs should achieve a better quality level. No major tasks have been added to social welfare; rather, it is a question of carrying out existing tasks. We have analysed the cost structure. In the equation of the Equalisation Fund, certain components are divided according to the age of the population. And when we looked at the cost structure, we discovered that municipal spending on older people is relatively lower. The Minister for Social Protection is also very concerned about this. While we understand that children and young people are associated with very high costs, such as kindergartens, school education and so on, we have come to the conclusion in these negotiations that we need to help the elderly to catch up. Whether it is compliance with certain standards or some kind of supervision, if we hand over tasks to the local authorities, then let them also have the resources to do so. We also need to think very carefully about what their abilities are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U62	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. I would remind the Minister that, according to the procedure, the Minister also has the opportunity to speak at the end of the negotiations. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U63	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I congratulate our Minister for Public Administration, because I think he is a minister who knows and wants to communicate with us. We have seen ministers who look down on us and do not want to have a dialogue. Thank you to the Minister for Public Administration, who, in my opinion, is looking for ways to engage in dialogue. When it comes to public service and state reform in general, the Free Party Group is of the opinion that the public sector must be brought together. But, of course, we must remember that every contraction must take place in very substance. The Free Party has already raised questions during the procedure of the draft administrative reform law on how this process will be managed. The main objective is that the reform will not result in central government. As a result of the reform, the state should turn itself even more towards a person with a face, but it also requires substantive changes to the principles of governance structures. A contraction of the public sector is necessary. One reason for this is the fact that we are living beyond our means and obviously at the expense of future generations. We have been talking about state reform for years, but it has not got anywhere. Probably one reason is that there is no specific leader to make a mistake in this process. Yesterday, in the Committee on State Reform, we were given an overview of the various committees, colleges, analytical groups that deal with the subject, but there is no room for end-to-ends. Everyone approaches the subject from a different perspective. In some ways, it's very positive. But who is going to carry out the reform of the state: is it the Prime Minister, is it the Minister of Justice, is it the Minister of State Administration? It's still open. Personally, I believe that this could be done by the Riigikogu, but do we have the will and the opportunity to do so? In fact, the chairman of the problem committee could stay longer on this Estonian surface, because I can see that will and ind are already developing, hope as it is. A bit of concern was the Minister's reply concerning the opinion of the National Reform Radar College. I don't think it makes sense to be skeptical and to ridicule these people for doing anything of their own free will, but it doesn't shake us. Actually, it does. This College has become one of the few sources of information that transmit messages to the public in a very simple language and develop ideas that are easy for rulers to take over and implement. It's not Chinese. These collected opinions have been structured in very simple language and understandably, and they should certainly be taken into account and implemented. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U64	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U65	What are the concerns of our government? The potential of people with higher education has not been sufficiently harnessed. It has been complained that our governance is not flexible and innovative enough that the opportunities of the e-state have not been mastered or wanted to take advantage of the fact that we are slow. However, we have potential that we could use in cooperation, both by employing smart people and by analysing their opinions. I will mention another keyword relating to administrative reform. Yeah, it's on. But a lot of officials are looking forward to the election results on Sunday. Why? Because they live in ignorance of what will happen to them after 1 January. This is critical in rural areas. There's no way you're gonna be running for another job in one or two months. My question to the Minister for Public Administration would be how much these people have been involved. This is a very sensitive issue. One of the problems that is still linked to the reform of the state and which we should solve is the excessive dependence of the state budget on European Union money. This also concerns the challenges and opportunities for our official body to develop and enhance its capacity. We are too dependent on the European Union and, at one point, we may be hit by a crash: money is scarce, but many jobs have not been done. My call, and hopefully the entire Free Party Group, is: please let us stop proposing incomplete solutions. We will find an opportunity to talk about developments in the public sector in the full sense of state reform! This should start with the vision of which Estonia we want to see: what tasks the central authority could perform, what responsibilities the local government could assume. Our group, of course, expects the autonomy of local governments to increase and their competence and capacity to increase. And, of course, the third sector is part of today's governance model with its potential. We're a small country. We can test it, but we have to find the will to test it. I really hope we find it in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U66	On behalf of the Group of the Arto Aas Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U67	Honourable Riigikogu! First of all, the trends highlighted in the report are largely positive and it is a pleasure to see that the Minister of Public Administration, Ab, presented them in an optimistic tone, even though this is the 2016 report, which was in particular the year of the Clothing Government. But the fact that the number of officials fell by 1500 in one year is certainly a positive one more than we dared to hope for. If you remember, this order of magnitude was supposed to be about 750 people, but they were able to do twice as much. This is undeniably positive because the Estonian state works as well, if not even better than before. Despite the opposition and the initial negative reaction, there was nothing to be done. Certainly, inertia will continue to reduce the number of officials. Of course, the closure of rural governments and administrative reform will also contribute to this. So, I believe in the 2017 report and perhaps in the 2018 one, we will see that this trend continues. But I'll come back to that. Right now, I want to give the minister a few such mysteries or pieces of thought. One is the issue of wage growth. Again, we read that wages have increased somewhere by 7 to 8%, although we know that the government has not allocated such a payroll. On the one hand, it is nice that ministries and other authorities have so much internal resources that the 1% increase in the payroll can be squeezed out by 7% wage growth, and so for years. However, officials have said every year during the budget negotiations that internal resources have been exhausted. Well, looks like maybe it's not for good. I don't know if there's going to be a wall at one point, but even now it sounded like a minister's answer was that a slightly higher wage growth is likely to occur than a 4% raise in the payroll fund. I would like to say at this point that I was disturbed by the fact that we always saw these real wage increases in the rear-view mirror. This information always came as a surprise and always six months or nine months later. Only then did we learn how much real wage growth was in central government institutions and elsewhere in the public sector. It's actually weird. How come the government still doesn't know what chancellors, heads of institutions do with their payroll, what the real wage increases are? This 8% wage growth in 2016 could not be predicted by anyone even in the most optimistic dreams. This is certainly a point in how the government can actually manage these processes. And, of course, the problem at the time was that while the ministry had relatively strict control over wage growth and the use of the payroll fund and the chancellors understood the atmosphere that prevailed in the government, the remote divisions had a much more enjoyable life. I am not sure that the search for efficiency has reached the necessary point in the departments as well. We have seen that a lot of people have gone from ministries to offices that they manage because there have been better working conditions there. This is probably not a very sustainable model. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U68	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U69	One more mystery. This concerns training. I do not know if anyone has noticed this, but we have a training centre for top managers at the State Chancellery, which trains 100 people and has a budget of 628000 euros. This is a highly funded training programme for 100 top managers, these are Chancellors, Vice Chancellors, other heads of institutions. For the remaining 132000 people on public pay, the training budget is one million. So the proportions are completely out of place. I do not know whether one budget should be reduced or increased, but in any case there are proportions of how much money our top executives receive training and how much remains to train other officials, completely out of place. I do not know if Minister Aab has noticed this, but this could be discussed with the Secretary of State and other ministers as to whether these proportions are quite correct. Now from the future. I too cannot get a grade of 1 on the five-ball scale of the National Reform Radar, which was awarded to the government last week for carrying out the state reform. There is no clear vision, no clear goals, no ambition. Well, there's a lot of examples that, yeah, work is on. A lot of things are said to be analyzed. I know from the time of my ministerial work that some of the analyses have been going on for two years. In fact, it is time to make decisions and set clear goals. Otherwise, this truncheon of state reform will fade away and officials and politicians will be able to survive it peacefully without major changes being brought to life. One example of what I think might go beyond the fence is the removal of the same workers from the capital. A beautiful goal in itself, even during the previous government, we dealt with it. There has been a huge opposition to the authorities, both managers and private workers. There was a lot of hypocrisy back in the day. I remember when both Ossinovsky and Reinsalu were very strongly in favour, setting very high targets, but did not put forward any concrete proposals within the deadline. I don't know how it is right now, but I'm afraid at least it hasn't changed much with Reinsalu. I'm worried that I hear there's a certain potjom stuff happening here. On paper, jobs are being taken out of the capital. In fact, staff from Tallinn visit two days a week, perhaps three days a week, receive a note that jobs have been taken to county centres, but there is actually one commutation between the capital and other cities. My suggestion: if you cannot actually do this, create these thousands of jobs in reality, then do less! Do five hundred, but actually get those jobs out of the capital, so they're in the county centers and there's no harm in the eyes! There are, then, some support services, work that can be done by teleworking at the computer, where the physical location is not important, where there is no question of the workforce, and where it is not a question of the fact that customers are actually located in Tallinn or elsewhere in larger centres. Let us do less, but let us make fair and tangible results. Let us make sure that it does not waste public money and that these sneaking jobs do not come back to the capital immediately! In the last 20 seconds, I would like to point out that, according to the latest study, the lowest civil servants' salaries are in the Riigikogu. I am not talking about members of the Riigikogu, I am talking about the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. We have neglected our own administration. This is a comment to the members of the Riigikogu, not so much to the minister, but it is also unsustainable if the officials of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu are the worst paid officials in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U70	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Ivari Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U71	Ladies and gentlemen, The public sector and its restructuring have been discussed with different emphasis during each government period. When I think about my last 25 years of work, when I have worked in the public sector or alongside it, I remember discussions on this issue at one level or another. I remember when I went to work at the Ministry of Finance in 1995, a new public service law had just come out. In view of the current situation and today's debate and these earlier discussions, what is the difference? The momentum of public sector concentration has usually been in line with whether the state or the economy is doing well or badly. If the country is going badly, there is still a debate that the public sector needs to be reduced, that the number of employees must be summed up. Once the country is better off, this debate is in the background. Today's debate and the current situation are somewhat different in this respect. On the one hand, the economy is growing and, in this light, at least for some time, the state feels safe when it prepares the state budget. On the other hand, it is agreed that the number of people working in the public sector should decrease in line with the decline in the working age population. In a five-year perspective, this decrease is about 0.5% per year and is a parameter that the public sector is trying to take into account in both good and bad times. It has emerged from our debate that the actual reduction in the number of employees is much higher than 0.5% per year. The number of employees in the general government has fallen by 1.3% and the number of employees in the public service at all has fallen by 2.1% per year. I'd like to know more about why these numbers are so positive. Are these random hits, or is there structural work behind it? That's one side of it. The difference between the time of the earlier debates and the time of the present time is that a lot of activities have been carried out. The reform of local government, the abolition of rural governments, the establishment of a joint ministry has started. All these things have been turned on at the same time. That is why we have discussed among ourselves in the Committee on State Reform that it will take at least until the end of this year, and only then will we see how the processes have practically progressed and what changes should be made in the coming years. The role of the Riigikogu in all aspects of the changes in state reform and the public sector, public power, should therefore be greater, that knowledge or understanding of these processes should be much better for members of the Riigikogu. I very much hope that this committee, to which I belong and in which there is one member from each political group, will be able to play this role. We hope to provide sufficient information to the political groups on how the public sector works. We have also launched an institution such as the Development Monitoring Centre. This centre is like a tool or tool for members of the Riigikogu, and they have now started working to draw up scenarios for what public power could be like in the future, for example in 2030. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U72	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U73	These are different scenarios that will be handed over to Riigikogu members in June next year so that we can make our own choices on the basis of them as to what public authority should look like in the future. So it's interesting times, so there's a lot of stuff going on. I'm gonna touch a thousand more jobs that we've been talking about. There are undoubtedly two aspects to the game. One is the goal of creating a thousand jobs in the county centres, which is extremely important. Another aspect is how to organise it in such a way that the quality of public authority does not suffer. These are two aspects that must certainly be taken into account. Last but not least, this is the subject of the Riigikogu itself and the good people who work with us here. I spoke to the staff of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu yesterday. Yes, their salaries have remained unchanged over the last five years and this must certainly be remembered throughout this process. Thank you for your attention and your strength for all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U74	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U75	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will only make a few comments, because in general I agree with many of the previous speakers and what has been said here today. But there is an interesting position that did not actually come out of these assessments, but it has started to sound since the coalition and its government started working in this Chamber: everything bad comes from this coalition, everything good came from the previous one. It's not really like that. All such developments are very long-term and cannot be so that only one side moves forward. This is particularly true for major reforms such as the current administrative reform. After all, the decision was taken last summer and it cannot be that problems have only arisen during this coalition. And now more substantive solutions have been added, such as the restoration of the municipal income base. Second moment. A good colleague, Ivari, also said, as head of the Committee on State Reform, that there has been talk of state reform all the time. I remember that in 1993, when the reform of the rural governments and the local governments were transformed into state structural units, there was also talk about the division of functions between the state and local authorities. On 14 June this year, we took the decision to abolish land governments, but the division of functions is still being discussed. Now this distribution will finally be done. And one more thing. I agree with Küllik's Hatter, but I note one thing. We cannot have the same views in this Chamber today when we are planning the next steps in the reform of the state. We have 101 positions, we have the positions of all groups, and that is perfectly natural. But I will once again remind you of 14 June of this year, when we adopted the law on the reform of rural governments and the law on the amendment of the KOKS, or the Local Government Organisation Act, in this very hall. Then we reached a consensus. Before that, we were debating a wall-to-wall, very sharply, but we reached common positions on this day after six months of procedure. We will probably also reach a rather close view on the state reform that this can go on. I am not very pessimistic when assessing the state reform, nor am I so pessimisticly interpreting the assessments of the National Reform Radar. Only part of the state reform was assessed with a score of 1. In fact, the governance reform is part of the state reform and these major reforms, which will become real on 1 January 2018, the tax reform, the health insurance reform and others, are still part of the state reform, which concerns matters that are important to people. I drew special attention to the relevant metrics today when I asked the question because there was talk yesterday in the Committee on State Reform that there were no more metrics. In fact, the metrics are in the state reform document adopted by the government at the beginning of the year. One measure of an efficient country is that the share of government employees in the working age population does not exceed 12%. As we have heard from the Minister's report, this figure is actually decreasing faster than planned. The share of government expenditure in GDP is also falling. It must not grow beyond the figure of 37,9% in 2015. For me as a geographer and regional politician, the third measure is also very important: the number of public sector jobs in Tallinn must be less than 45% of the total number of such jobs in the country. Here's the starting point for the year 2016. There is certainly some concern about the removal of public authorities from the capital. At the same time, this is an extremely important regional political step that the country is taking with the government. I was also very pleased to hear that the regional pay gap in the public sector is smaller than in the country as a whole. At the same time, other regional policy measures are also needed. Regional policy is generally supported through entrepreneurship, so it is precisely regional policy support for entrepreneurship that is actually needed. At present, conditions in South Estonia and islands are not the same as in large centres. So this is an important direction. All in all, I hope that, just as we reached quite one point of view on the reform of the administration and the rural governments, we will also come to a close understanding when discussing the reform of the state here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U76	There's no more calls. I shall close the negotiations and also close this concise debate on this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U77	Third item: First reading of draft road haulage law 488 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, please waitress for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U78	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm here before you with the bill on road transport. Compared to other existing transport laws, it was still the last such law adopted before joining the European Union. Consequently, the law on road transport needed to be modernised, clarified and brought into line with other laws. The current full text was adopted on 1 October 2000 and has since been amended 20 times. It is also necessary to transpose the provisions of several acts of the European Union by means of road transport law. The amendments to the text of the Act are final, which makes it necessary to introduce a new full text of the Road Transport Act. The draft law regulates the organisation of road transport operations, including the introduction of requirements for road transport operators and persons involved in road transport. The following is a point for the most important purposes of the law. The draft specifies the requirements for access to and pursuit of the occupation of transporter. In particular, the liability of the carrier for road transport infringements committed by a driver working under a contract of employment or a public debt contract has been increased. The carrier organises his transport activities through drivers, providing them with working arrangements and documents necessary for the transport. Consequently, a large part of road transport infringements committed in road traffic, for which a driver has been penalised, are also regarded as infringements by the carrier. Accordingly, the grounds for suspension, revocation and award of documents required for the carriage of goods by road have also been amended, allowing the transport of the carrier to be affected in the event of a driver's infringement. The draft harmonises the procedure for applying for, granting, refusing and withdrawing the licence provided for in the Act with the provisions of the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities Act. The draft also sets out some differences as regards the conditions under which the Law on the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities cannot be implemented. For example, a licence in the road transport sector cannot be transferred to a subsidiary of an undertaking, since each separate undertaking is regarded as a carrier. The Act lays down the obligations of the consignor in relation to the conclusion of the contract of carriage and the placing, securing and covering of the load with the organiser of the carriage of goods. When concluding a contract of carriage, the consignor must check that the person to whom the contract of carriage is concluded has the right to carry out the carriage. It is possible to check the register of economic activities or to issue a proper licence when concluding a transport contract. The purpose of the requirement is to ensure that the shipper enters into a transport contract with an Estonian or foreign carrier operating on a legal basis on the transport market whose transport manager and drivers have completed the relevant training and are aware of how to carry out transport safely. The consignor must also place and affix the load safely on the vehicle, if so agreed in the contract of carriage. The purpose of this requirement is also to ensure that the shipper pays attention to the safety of the carriage and is responsible for the infringements caused by him if the carrier is not involved in the loading or securing of the cargo and is unable to verify its safety. The requirements will ensure a more professional and safer delivery of the cargo to the destination. In order to improve road safety and competition conditions, the rights of the national supervisory authority will be extended. To this end, the supervisory authority shall be allowed to interrupt transport if the load layout or confirmation does not comply with the requirements, the transport manager or the driver does not have the required documents, or the document used in the transport has been handed over to a person to whom it is not authorised to be transferred. The national supervisory authority shall also be granted the right to apply for seizure to persons who have previously committed repeated serious road transport infringements for which financial penalties have not been paid. In particular, the implementation of this measure is important for a foreign driver, as the sense of impunity and the risks of road safety and unfair competition increase in the case of unpaid fines. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law, pages 84-85, also shows the current trend in the payment of fines by foreign carriers. The draft will facilitate the use of documents necessary for road transport. For this purpose, the obligation to carry a certified copy of the licence, the contract of use of the rented car, the contract of employment of the driver and the document certifying completion of professional and refresher training in domestic paid transport operations shall be waived. The existence of these documents can be verified from the economic activity register, the employment register or the traffic register and the driver must be accompanied by an identity document. The bill also allows the accompanying documents for the cargo to be electronic. In the event of the loss, theft, destruction or change of the information entered on the document, such as the change of address of the undertaking, the undertaking shall be able to obtain a replacement document by simplified procedure. The replacement document shall be issued for the same period of validity as the document to be replaced. The proposal simplifies the application for a licence to organise professional and refresher training for drivers by abandoning the duplication of the training authorisation system. In addition, a training licence issued by the Ministry of Education and Research is no longer required for a driver's professional or refresher training institution. The licence to organise professional and refresher training of the driver will be issued to the school by the Road Administration. However, the obligation to participate in refresher training every five years in order to continuously update the knowledge and skills of lecturers will be added to the teachers conducting professional and refresher training. The draft also makes it more flexible to grant and use the transfer licences provided for in external agreements. In particular, the transfer licences are intended for paid transport between third countries. At the same time, there are operators operating exclusively on own account within the European Union and such operators should not have been allowed to issue licences in accordance with the applicable requirements. At the same time, such operators are also transferring their production to third countries, which is why they will continue to be allowed to apply for a bilateral transfer licence by an undertaking carrying out carriages solely on its own account. It will also make it easier to apply for transfer licences in a situation where there is insufficient demand for certain types of transfer licences. This also gives licences to carriers with generally lower capacity than the average. Finally. It also transposes Directive 2015/719/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council regulating the maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic for road vehicles circulating within the Community and the maximum authorised weights in international traffic. This provision concerns the obligation on the freight forwarder to provide the carrier with whom a transport contract is concluded for the transport of a container or swap body with proof of the weight of that container or swap body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U79	A round of questions for the minister will be opened by Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U80	Good manager! Good minister! As I read here, the most common and most serious violation is the burden on 12 tons of trucks, which is nearly three tons heavier. The proposal is to punish the shipper with EUR 2 000. As I understand it, four out of ten violations are where the trucks are much harder than they're supposed to be. What's it coming from? And with this EUR 2 000, the shipper will now be fined. As I understand it, there is nothing the carrier can do now if the burden is three tonnes or more heavier.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U81	Thank you. Indeed, all infringements to date have been distributed to you in the form of a table, which is on the last page of the explanatory memorandum. And it can be seen from it that the majority of the offences related to the majority of Estonian carriers, although according to the latest figures, foreign carriers have also been added, who have caused these violations in Estonia. I did not understand your argument that the carrier would not know that he had sent his goods overweight to the road. In fact, it is the carrier who can identify the weight of the heavy goods vehicle that will send him to the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U82	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I am dealing with a problem that is mentioned here in the explanatory memorandum, but for which I did not find a solution the outstanding fines of foreign drivers. How does the Ministry deal with this problem and whether it has been dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U84	Thank you. Indeed, I mentioned that this is the first step in this direction to strengthen our position in receiving fines imposed on foreign leaders. That is also why it took us so long to coordinate this bill with the Ministry of Justice. There is now a margin of discretion: the cargo can be seized if it can be seen that drivers of this heavy-duty vehicle have repeatedly received fines in Estonia and have not been paid. This should be quite a strong argument as to why Estonia's fines will also be paid. Otherwise the transport of the cargo may be significantly delayed. But why were we arguing there? Because the unpaid fine is not the direct cause of the traffic risk that has so far allowed heavy goods vehicles to be removed from the road. As can be seen, over half of the fines imposed on foreign carriers have been paid over the last three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U85	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U86	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Monday, 25 September and also Tuesday, 26 September. In the Commission, the Minister gave an overview of the draft as comprehensively as he did a moment ago on this board, so I am not going to recapitulate. During the discussion, Sven Sester pointed out that the most comments and suggestions had been made by the Estonian Association of International Car Carriers (ERAA) and asked whether ERAA had been involved in drafting the draft. Eda Rembel replied that they had been asked for an opinion. The ERAA has also participated in a round table of training for the Ministry. There have also been meetings with representatives of the Association of Car Businesses. The same parties will also be involved in the drafting of related regulations. Sven Sester also asked whether there were any major differences in this draft. Eda Rembel replied that there were no major contradictions and that market participants were rather looking forward to the entry into force of the new law. I had a question as to whether the seizure could be used even if the infringement had been committed repeatedly, but it was not a serious infringement. Ain Tatter explained that according to the draft, the arrest can only be used for serious infringements and that the decision on the application of the arrest is taken by the police. It will be up to the interministerial working group to develop the methods of penalties that can be seen for minor repeated violations. Ain Tatter also added that the Government of the Republic would like the Economic Commission to send the draft Road Transport Act to the first reading as amended. Since we did not have it as amended in the Commission on Monday, the question was discussed again the day after everyone had been able to read the amended text. At this meeting, Eda Rembel, a leading specialist in the transport and traffic services, presented the revised text of the draft. In the meantime, the part of the Public Transport Act concerning the vocational training of taxi drivers has been amended. And from this text, which was submitted to the large hall, sections referring to the professional training of taxi drivers have been deleted. The amendments are in total in seven paragraphs. I said this for the sake of clarity, so that there would be no fear that these freshly extracted paragraphs would somehow come back into the text. Consensual decisions were also taken: to send the draft to first reading as amended, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 10 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 24 October at 12 noon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U87	The rapporteur will be asked the first question by Mr Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U88	Good manager! Good penguin! I still have these heavy, 12-ton trucks, which are actually two or three or four tons heavier than I promised. Was it discussed in the Commission that this was particularly the case for foresters? And how can it still be, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, that even if the carrier is aware that the mass of the load may not correspond to the maximum permissible mass, in practice he is not in a position to reject it? How is such a thing possible, and is it largely related to log loads?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U89	Thank you. First of all, we in the Commission did not go very far into the details of individual serious infringements. Now, when you read the description of this violation, it does not refer to 12 tons of trucks, but to vehicles with a maximum mass of at least 12 tons or 12 to 42 tonnes, even more with special permits than has been agreed. But driving with a heavier load than promised is really a problem. And this is a problem primarily because it affects you quite a lot in Estonia. If you look at these violations more closely, it cannot be said that this would be a very clear problem for a single mode of transport. I think that this is a question, whether logs or other goods are being transported. There are also larger weights for timber transport: there can be 48 and 52 tonnes if the car has more axles.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U90	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 488. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 488 amendments proposed by the commission at 12 noon on 24 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U91	Fourth item: First reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Valdo Randpere, member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress for the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! I have now come before you with a bill that stands out in many respects. Firstly, this bill is very short. I have recently noticed that both the author and the other author boast about how compact his bill is. And if that's what's important about one draft, then this bill right here is on one A4 page and the explanatory statement is on the other A4 page. So everyone should be able to work through them and understand what this is all about. Another remarkable thing is that the same bill was actually initiated here last spring. We did a draft amendment to the Employment Contracts Act, and we also changed many things there. And at the last moment, it was the point from which it all started that was left out. It was left out because the trade unions discovered that they wanted to change the employment contract without the union being able to put their hands between them or increase the number of their members in half-hours. So suddenly, the trade unions and the Social Democrats vetoed a bill that everyone was in favour of at first and which was reasonable in itself. The purpose of this draft is to amend the Employment Contracts Act so that on-call time can be used slightly more flexibly with the mutual consent of the parties to the contract, i.e. if the employer and the employee agree. This problem is currently emerging, especially in the IT sector. Time has gone on, after all, it's not like in the morning a conveyor will be put to work at the workplace, and everyone will have to stand guard over it, and if anything happens, everyone will have to be ready to rush right into the wrench. On-call time in the IT sector quite often looks like a person has to keep the phone on. She can even sleep at home, as long as she's sober and available on the phone. In this case, on-call time could be applied to a person in a slightly larger volume and a little cheaper than the current employment contract law allows. As has been said, at the last moment, the trade unions have discovered that we have such a plan, and they have proposed to us that such a change may be made, but only if this amendment has been agreed by collective agreement. But a collective agreement requires membership of a trade union, and in the IT sector, people are not very willing to join a trade union. I know that from my own hands, and there's no way I can judge them for it. Now this draft amendment to the Employment Contracts Act is before you. This is so short that I can also read out: '[This limit on-call time of V. R.] shall not apply provided that the use of on-call time for urgent work has been agreed in the contract or collective agreement and that the duration of on-call time for a period of 28 calendar days does not exceed 130 hours and that the non-application of the restriction does not adversely affect the health and safety of the worker. The staff member may cancel the contract of employment at any time by giving two weeks' notice. ' In particular, this last sentence also gives the employee full protection in the sense that if he does not want this on-call time, he will not be able to do so. Then he informs the employer two weeks in advance and is free of obligation. We think it's a pretty sensible approach. Today, however, the social partners, employers and employees could agree more with each other, not expect any command boards with very impervious standards from this Toompea. People need to know how they organise their work. Time has passed: the class struggle is largely over, the trade unions are on their way to the waste bin of history. Maybe you shouldn't say that, but at least they've never even made it to the IT sector. So there's nothing to send to the trash. But that's basically all I have to say to you. If you have any questions, please ask them!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U93	There are questions. Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U94	Mr. President! Speaker on behalf of the Commission. What other sectors is involved? You only enlightened one sector, the IT sector, but in fact the impact of this draft is wider. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U95	Yeah, the effects are wider. One small amendment too: I am not a Commission waitress, I am the initiator of the draft. But the effect is, of course, wider in itself. In my opinion, the legislation must look so that we do not stick our noses in one sector in a very specific way, not try to regulate this sector very much in the level of screws and nuts, but leave the freedom to agree between the employer and the contractor here. If they think it's working, it's done if the employee doesn't want to do it, they don't. That's the way it could be. Basically, the law regulates working and rest periods nowadays. We are giving a chance here to make a small exception, if both agree. For example, if an employee really finds that it is not very burdensome for him to keep his phone on when he sleeps at home on the weekend. And if anything happens to computer systems, he'll log in and fix it or if he can't, he won't. This is actually all the work that does not assume that a person has to do something very physically or very significantly to change his or her way of life. So this is a very friendly approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U96	Ain Lutsepp, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U97	But you didn't answer my question, Honourable waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U98	I replied that this concerned all sectors of the labour market as a whole. Do you want me to start reading you all the fields and all the employees in Estonia? There's quite a few of them. This point concerns everyone; it is an amendment to the Employment Contracts Act. But specifically, I can also say that one of the initiators, one group that is looking forward to it, is not even IT companies, but are people of state-owned IT institutions. Under the Ministry of the Interior, for example, there is SMIT, the IT department of the Ministry of the Interior or what to call it. They are very interested in such a legislative amendment. If we don't give them that chance, life will go on. But basically, we're a little stuck in old times and old taboos.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U99	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U100	You said like you were passing a detail about a lifestyle. Did I hear you wrong or is it that you have to be home and sober?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U101	You gave me this two-digit list now, but the only thing right is this last one: you don't have to be at home, but sober.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U102	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I have been an alternate to the Committee on Legal Affairs a few times, and I ask if it is wise to bring the rhetoric and arrogance of the Reform Party over this large hall to answer questions. Ain's asking specific questions and fangs, but you're just gonna go overboard here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U103	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U104	I think that's the problem you're gonna take care of later with Ain in the hallway. I don't think I need to have a conversation with you here. But if Ain needs a lawyer, he'll definitely find you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U105	No further questions for the rapporteur. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariliid, will present a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U106	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 25 September. Valdo Randpere introduced draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act initiated by the Reform Party Group 467. The discussion on this bill was very brief. Hanno Pevkur said that this was a necessary change that would solve a major problem in the Estonian labour market. He pointed out that the charges currently provided for in the form of on-call time were entirely adequate. Nor does it consider it appropriate for the free labour market to link one regulation with the obligation to be a member of a trade union. In addition to the members of the Legal Affairs Committee, Mariliis Proos, Head of Labour Relations Policy of the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also present. Marilis Proos stated that the Government of the Republic did not support the draft in the proposed form as it did not contain an additional premium component which could compensate for the fact that the distinction between on-call time causes more inconvenience to the worker than the normal on-call time. Mr Pevkur pointed out that the position of the Government of the Republic sent to the Commission is actually the position of the Ministry of Social Affairs and we do not have the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the Ministry of the Interior. Heljo Pikhof was of the opinion that trade unions represent employees better than employees normally do on their own. Pikhof agreed that there was a shortage of staff in the IT sector, but considered that an additional remuneration should be provided for the difference in on-call time. Hanno Pevkur asked if on-call time could not be included in rest periods. Marilis Proos explained that according to the current rules, it is not possible to do so. Jaanus Karilaid put to the vote the proposal to refer the draft to first reading with the proposal to close the first reading. Four members voted in favour of the proposal: Hanno Pevkur, Meelis Mälberg, Valdo Randpere and Külliki Kübarsepp. Six members voted against the proposal: Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Märt Sults, Jaanus Karilaid, Hardi Volmer and Heljo Pikhof. Uno Kaskpeit remained neutral. Consequently, the Commission proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U107	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you very much. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, Eiki Nestor on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U108	Mr President, I would also like to ask for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U109	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U110	I would like to thank the Group for this honour to be presented here, and I have spoken a lot over the years on this subject, and I will also welcome you to the trash can. My first comment on behalf of our group is as follows. Long-term experience in processing drafts in the area of employment relations here in the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen, says a simple thing: it is not worth bringing here those drafts that are not agreed between the social partners. Believe me, I could let out of the computer five reverse drafts a day and hand them over, but I have not done so because I do not consider it fundamentally right to make labour market regulations in this way. In the future, I believe, it would make sense for our employment contract law to have fewer paragraphs and greater freedom for the social partners. Unfortunately, this bill, too, does not bear witness to the fact that it could still be done, although I would like to do so from the heart. The bill itself differs from the government bill precisely because people do not pay more money for this procedure. But the substance of the bill. What are the drawbacks? The social partners have not been spoken to. At present, on-call time is used not only for urgent work but also for all areas of life where basically the service must be provided continuously. If this cannot be done, then the matter must be resolved somehow. Also in such a way that people are at home in the meantime, and as the MP has pointed out here, that is to say, they have made a commitment that they are ready to work. At present, such obligations can be imposed on a person in his home life for four to four and a half hours a day, and on a weekend he must have one day off for himself. For this 28-calendar-day period and 130-hour period, this restriction is no longer there, in other words, a person may be on call at all times. However, my special attention came to the explanatory memorandum to the bill. I haven't laughed so much in a while. I understand that the words 'Swedish state','socially safe environment' and 'trade unions' can make some people puke. Well, he'll throw up! But is that what it costs? Read: 'The obligation to provide daily and weekly rest periods as an important limitation for the employer'. That we have our time off a week after the end of the working day, and that we have two days off on the weekend, the author of the draft looks at this as an important restriction for the employer. You can't turn on seven days a week and 24 hours a day! Well, how can you write it?! And the most beautiful part of the matter: an important worker protection mechanism has been created, i.e. the right to leave work at any time. That's great! The owner comes into the room and says, "Tomorrow your salary has been reduced twice, but our wise legislator has done an article to protect you, you can quit your job! 'Hey, knock it off!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U111	On behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U112	I just want to say briefly to my colleague that it is interesting in itself how a person can read the first page and the second page and then, without putting the two together at all, conclude that the employer now wants the employee to work 24 hours a day and seven days a week. If the first part, the bill itself, is read, then you can understand that what we are offering there is a very large amount of restrictions that cannot be put to work for 24 hours, you cannot put to work seven days a week. But above all, when I listened to this speech, I understood why people in the IT sector do not want and have never wanted to be a member of a trade union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-10_U113	There are no further requests to speak. The commission has proposed to reject draft 467. I therefore put to the vote to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. We invite our colleagues to the Chamber and then we vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 467 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 43 votes in favour and 28 against, with no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 467 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted. Thank you for your decisions and debates. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 12.11.
