ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello and strength! Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 41 members of the Riigikogu will be present in Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Urve Palo, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Information Technology, and Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs will be in briefing. Welcome to you too! Good luck! As seven questioners registered yesterday, I will give you the opportunity to submit an additional question on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U2	The first questioner is Martin Helme and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! My question is about the Cohabitation Act, which this week is also on our agenda. You recently gave an interview to the West Life newspaper, where you talked about it. You said that the Riigikogu and the government would not be able to revoke the cohabitation law during its composition, as one of the coalition partners is opposed. I had a number of questions about it. The Centre Party has played a very insincere game in my opinion, putting a debate on a very urgent national issue on the Thursday agenda, and when we asked on Monday to change the order of the items on the agenda, it unanimously opposed it. So this bill may not come to a vote this week. But I have two questions. Firstly, how does the Centre Party Group still intend to vote if you have a clear Bureau position that supports the annulment of the Cohabitation Act? Secondly, will you consider only one coalition partner when deciding on this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu, thank you and for your strength! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for that question. There were about four issues on your question, so I'll start over. You referred to my interview I gave to West Life. Yeah, really, that's the interview I gave in Haapsalu. You said as if I had said there wouldn't be a cancellation. Yes, indeed, I do not see that during the composition of this Riigikogu, the cohabitation law can move in one direction or another, either in the direction of revocation or adoption of implementing acts. There is no political power at the moment, at least according to my senses. But of course, I am not a member of the Riigikogu, you know it better. I don't understand your idea of what an insincere game is. There's no insincere game here. As far as I am concerned, under the Home and Working Procedures Act, every political group has the right, once a year, to bring a significant national issue to this House. What the group wants to discuss is for the group to decide. You asked how the Central Party Group would decide then. The group will certainly discuss this issue, and the MPs will make their decision. I think we all understand this real situation, that it is certainly the wish of our party and group to maintain, I would say, a working and functioning coalition. We want this coalition to last until the next regular election.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U5	Martin Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U6	Thank you. Let me explain what I meant by that insincerity. As a former member of the governing board of the Riigikogu, you know that the debate on a crucial state issue has never been put on the agenda at one week's notice, it is very unusual. If this debate is put on the agenda further ahead of the debate on a draft, and this draft should go to the vote immediately, but everyone knows that it is not wanted to be put to the vote before the local elections, then I see too much of a collusion here, the aim of which is to put the vote to next week. But all right. I'm still coming back to the coalition. I have the impression from you that you consider the real possibility that if the Central Party Group votes unanimously in favour of repealing the Cohabitation Act, the government will fall apart. Is such a threat really made, and do you really believe it? Secondly, have I misunderstood something and there are only two political parties left in the government, you and the Social Democrats? As far as I know, the third department of government has a position contrary to your opinion. Or is their position not taken into account, or is that position not so important to them? It's a little confusing for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U7	Thank you. Understandably, sometimes things are confusing, so we have to consult. In general, I believe that the discussion of the drafts in the Riigikogu should take place in such a way that a decision is taken at first reading on whether the first reading is closed or the draft is voted out of the procedure. There will be no final vote at first reading. Now, the question is whether the government is falling apart, what are you worried about? I don't know if you're worried because you're confused. No, don't be afraid, the government is busy, the government makes a lot of important decisions. If you would like to know more, we can, of course, discuss them in Question Time, whether there is an increase in the tax-free minimum, an additional fund for the Health Insurance Fund or a municipal income base. There's a lot of these things. You asked if there were two parties in the government. No, there are three parties in the government. I mention them: the Social Democratic Party (here is the Social Democratic Party Group), the Fatherland and Res Publica Association (here is the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union) and the Estonian Centre Party (here is the Group of the Estonian Centre Party). So three political parties and three political groups are in the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U8	Henn Põllamaas, a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! In one interview, you claimed that the Centre Party Group had not yet discussed the matter of the Cohabitation Act. At the same time, many ladies and gentlemen in this Chamber have argued, on the contrary, that it was discussed. Jaanus Karilaid has also said in an interview that it was discussed, but was not voted on, but the majority still maintained the view that the cohabitation law had to be abolished. Now, who's wrestling, did the Centre Party still discuss it or didn't discuss it, as you say?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U10	Thank you. If you look back a little bit, it has been discussed several times by the party and the group. This debate will actually go back to the 12th. But I think that this question was more related to this week and to the Monday meeting of the Group. It is, of course, interesting that the other groups are so interested in the organisation of the work of our group. I remember in one briefing I said that good people always want to get more parties, and the party doesn't put up a barrier here. It is true, however, that we are certainly debating the draft law on partnership, which, according to the agenda, will come before this House. We will certainly be discussing this in the group and, as I said, the MPs are shaping their position. On Monday, did the group adopt a final decision on this issue? No.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U12	Next thing you know, Andres Ammas is gonna ask Foreign Minister Sven Mikser. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U13	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, I would like to discuss with you the events in Catalonia. A large part of the Estonian public was frustrated and puzzled by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs' first declaration on Catalonia, which was anonymous and did not include an assessment of the use of the force of the Spanish police against peaceful residents. However, this could not come as a surprise to you or to our External Action Service, because before Madrid's central authority had said that 35,000 policemen would be sent there, and the organisers of the referendum in the local departments had been threatened with fines and so on, and digital connections had been cut off in order to disrupt the referendum. So these events on that referendum day could not have caught you unexpectedly. Please, how do you comment on that statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U14	Thank you. I very much hope that none of us expected what happened in Catalonia and what took place on the streets of Barcelona on 1 October. The statements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not anonymous; they are always equipped with the name and contact details of the submitter of the application. It is common practice not only in the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs but also in many other institutions to make statements on behalf of the institutions. I always try to follow the principle that if something could have been done better or should have been done better, it is reasonable to admit it. Although the first statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on that Sunday day had been made in response to press inquiries concerning Estonia's attitude to the referendum and decisions made on the basis of its possible results, a reference to the violent incidents that took place could and should have been included in that statement. It is not true, however, that, in the meantime, these complaints have sounded as if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or myself, had not expressed a clear position on this matter that day. You can read the paper edition of the Eesti Päevaleht, published the next day, which states that I said on 1 October: 'We expect the constitutional order of Spain to be guaranteed without violence. [---] But the situation is certainly worrying. I hope that in the coming days, the parties will find a way to dialogue. " This last hope continues to exist in me. I will certainly also stick to the call for whatever political decisions and developments are, violence must be avoided. Violence is certainly not part of the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U15	Andres Ammas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U16	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The Catalonians announced their wish to hold a referendum at the beginning of the year without specifying the date. As this referendum comes, it did not come either to you or to your colleagues in the Member States of the European Union unexpectedly. Would you briefly describe whether and how much you and your colleagues have discussed the Catalonia issue at some formal or non-formal consultation? Was such a general silence tactic, or rather as an unwillingness to speak and speak on this subject agreed? If the press has now been discussing the question of who could be the mediator in the negotiations between the Madrid Central Authority and the Catalans, it has been mentioned that perhaps as the Presidency, it would also be appropriate for Estonia to do so. How do you feel about this proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U17	Thank you. Have we discussed this with colleagues? Yes, of course I have discussed this informally with many of my colleagues. As regards the European Union's foreign ministers' cooperation format, the meetings of the European Union's Foreign Affairs Council, it discusses issues that are foreign affairs for the European Union. The internal political situation of a Member State of the European Union, as well as the very serious and worrying internal political crisis, is not the subject of the discussion of the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. There are certainly other formats in the European Union where internal issues can also be discussed. As far as possible mediation is concerned, it goes without saying that such mediation and external participation in the resolution of this crisis can only be possible with the consent and will of the country concerned, in this case Spain. So far, Madrid has said very clearly and unambiguously that it does not want external mediation. The European Union has a number of institutions that will undoubtedly be able to participate in the search for a solution if such a request is made. However, as has been said, this can only happen if the country concerned itself wishes and agrees to do so. I believe that all the institutions involved in the Estonian Presidency, as well as our foreign policy departments, understand the role of the Presidency in these matters. I believe and hope that this will also be understood by the Members of our Parliament, as well as by our representatives in the European Parliament. It is not reasonable or responsible to deal with any unjustified domestic political self-suit on this subject, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U18	Urmas Kruuse, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! I have the opportunity to give greetings from the South Estonians, who do not understand why our foreign policy cornerstone is becoming the driving force of the Latvian economy. However, some country shops are still open today. But it becomes particularly grotesque in the light of the news from Latvia that the political forces there have realised that the agreement with the United Russia and the Putin Party is inappropriate in the context where the whole of Europe is following very closely what is happening in this country. The honourable Prime Minister has said that this agreement is in a frozen state. Do you dare say that it has not frozen your mind, too, and can the Latvian Minister for Foreign Affairs now go around Europe more boldly, because the Latvian political forces no longer have such an agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U20	Thank you. The Estonian Government and the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs are undoubtedly based on the interests and principles of Estonia, which have been agreed with our partners in the European Union and with our allies in NATO. In the case of the European Union, these principles and changes in these relations have been formulated as five points following the aggression against Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea. It is clear that our eastern neighbour, unfortunately, remains a country that does not respect its international obligations and does not respect the generally accepted principles of international law. He has even used armed forces twice in the last ten years to change national borders. It's impossible to accept that kind of behavior. If such behaviour continues and the damage done has not been remedied, then it is not possible to return to "normal" communication. As for the agreement you mentioned between the Central Party and Russia's Single Russia power party, just like you, I am relying on the Prime Minister's assurance that this agreement will not work. I can't at least right away, based on memory, confirm your statement that this treaty has been called frozen. It is certainly possible to unfreeze the freezer as well. I have been told that this treaty has ended its existence, which means that it is "deprecated" by using the language of the lawyers. But here I can, like you, rely on what the Prime Minister and the chairman of this party have confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U22	Now Maris Lauri's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U23	Dear Chairman, Good Prime Minister! I want to ask you about the financing of health care. When I look at the table that has been presented in the explanatory memorandum to the drafts and which has been very much discussed here, it turns out that next year's state budget will have an allocation of EUR 89 million for the Health Insurance Fund. Of this, 55 million will be transferred from other budgets, i.e. this money will come from the Health Board, the Institute for Health Development, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and 34 million will come from the clean money. In 2019, such pure money will be worth 12 million, of which 7 million will come next year. I don't understand if you're talking about 100, 200 or 300 million coming to healthcare. I'm sorry, but different ministers have used different figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U24	Thank you, good questioner, for this question. First of all, speaking of these different figures for the next year, whether the money is 34 million, 35 million or 37 million, the difference may be due to the fact that sometimes the budget strategy of the state and sometimes the draft budget law that has been passed on to the Riigikogu are being reviewed. But what you said about 2018, 89 million, is really true at the moment. Consolidation of services from the state budget to the health insurance fund accounts for 55 million and health care receives 34 million additional revenues. Next, the figures you used about the extra health benefits are not true. Take the example of the country's budgetary strategy. It was decided to allocate EUR 49,4 million in 2019, EUR 53.1 million in 2020 and EUR 75,4 million in 2021. If you add all of this up, it's really circa 215 million. If you look at the budget, it is true that the figures have been slightly adjusted. For example, when the country's budget strategy talks about 53.1 million in 2020, it now reads 53. There were 75,4 million in 2021, now 76 million. So the sums you claimed to be added after 2018 are not true, true figures are what I told you. Unfortunately, the time is up, so we can discuss it further during the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U25	And for that to be possible: Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U26	Thank you. I understand that we have a lot to argue about and discuss on this subject. Believe me, I sat down and I seriously overestimated how much money would come, and that is the kind of figures I got that in 2019 there would be 12 and 7 million next year. But that's it. I want to ask you about another matter, which is also budgetary. We look towards our "fatemate" Lithuania, where the standard of living is worse than that of Estonia. It could be assumed that their will to develop their economy and perhaps the will of the state to spend money could be greater than in Estonia. However, according to my information, they have set the goal of reaching a surplus of 200 million next year with a budget. Could a "poorer" or "poorer" country that behaves responsibly not serve as an example for us to grow reserves in such a good economic situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U27	Thank you for raising this important issue. I will come back with one more sentence to your first question. You said that's what you said. I don't think you used that term in the sense that health care and health insurance are of minor importance. I think that this is actually a very important and fundamental change. At the beginning of the year, the government was faced with a situation in which the medical sector said that if this were to go on, if there was no money or content (it is probably true that old-age pensioners who are not working would pay the state a 13% share of health insurance), then they would come to the street, using this most radical and most recent step. I am pleased that this did not happen, and I am pleased that this coalition was able to resolve this issue in the country's budget strategy. Now the question of debt and reserves. I fully agree with the economic logic that in good times, of course, reserves must be grown. I'm not arguing. But in addition to this, it is also important that reserves should always be viewed with debt. In 2016, the debt ratio was 9.4% of GDP. There is now a strong desire to bring this debt down further to 7% by 2021. So the current coalition really wants to reduce the government debt ratio by 2.4%. When we talk about reserves, it has to be said that there are reserves in the government sector, they will also exist next year. You brought a comparison with Lithuania. I think we need to look at our local situation here in Estonia, whether or not we need to resolve certain issues with next year's budget. It is true that on this issue, which you raised in the case of the Health Insurance Fund and medicine, an additional amount of EUR 200 million is foreseen for the circa. Of course, if you save this money now, you could say that the budget is a zero-level. Even in the country's budget strategy, when foreseen by 0.5, it decreased to 0/25.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U28	Thank you, Prime Minister. Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U29	Prime Minister! I have a general question about the budget. This concerns your political statement, which you made on 27 September when you handed over the budget. You reproached, among other things, the governments of ten years ago in the final part of your statement, just as in 2005-2007 the budgets would have been structurally negative. In nominal terms, these budgets were very positive, and it was in these years that most of the national reserves of Estonia were collected. At the same time, the assessment may, of course, be critical of ten years ago. But even if it was the case that there was a structural minus in those years, this complaint cannot mean anything but that you are complaining, as if the nominal surplus in those years should have been even greater, that is, the state should have collected even more reserves. But do you have any moral grounds for those governments that collected reserves to blame for the fact that more reserves should have been collected while you do not collect a cent into reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U30	Thank you. Whenever you ask, Mr Sõerd, when I listen to a question, I think that as a politician I still have so much to learn how to ask a question and use body language. No, what's to blame is just to compare. Well, in fiscal policy and in the financial world, of course, always be in place for comparisons and analyses. What I said was that, in 2018, if the budget had a structural position at 0,25, what was it, for example, ten years ago, in 2008. It's true that this minus was 20 times bigger, it was over 5%. And the country did it. So you can't say that if you have a 0.25%, there isn't a cent in the reserves, if I understood you correctly. Yes, it is. I've been asking about the Treasury Department. The following year, when all the national reserves are added together, this amount is, I hope, I will not be very wrong about the EUR 1.89 billion of the circuit. So if you say there isn't a cent in reserves, it's intimidation. That's not true. The second thing is what I said to your good groupmate, and I really think that there are certain issues that need to be resolved. Since 2009, there has always been a debate as to whether or not local governments should be given back their income base. This is the place of choice, because there is an opportunity to decide that it should not be given, as has basically been decided for seven years. The current coalition believes that it is necessary to give back so that municipalities can provide better quality services. It's the same with the Health Insurance Fund. We can argue as much as possible whether or not there is a need to shorten the order of treatment. The coalition has said there is a need to shorten. That, too, is a cost in terms of budget, you know that very well. So the budget will strike a balance, I hope, by 2020 at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U31	Thank you, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U32	It is now time for Arno Silla to put a question to Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When I meet voters in South-East Estonia, almost every time the question of this huge plant of planned wood refining arises. People are very concerned about whether the right step is to build such a magnificent factory in our small country. But what's the government's position so I can tell people that the government thinks that about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U34	Thank you very much, good questioner. In Estonia, almost half of our territory, 49%, is covered with forest and is one of Estonia's most important natural resources. It is very, very important that, if we were to introduce this natural resource, we would deserve it as much as possible. However, the concern is that, according to the forest balance of the Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association, 83% of coniferous wood was exported in 2015 and 63% of hardwood was exported unworthy of it. These are huge numbers. Over 80%, I repeat, coniferous wood of paper and over 60% of hardwood of paper we simply cut off and move it out of Estonia as roundwood. This is something that should not happen because we take out our great wealth and sell it very cheaply, without really much benefit. That is why the government has said that we very much expect investments to be made in Estonia that would better deserve forest resources, that our people would benefit more from it, that our prosperity would grow, and that we would not be such a cheap export country. Speaking of this factory, we can say that it is a tree, a pine, a birch and a hook that is used there, and that it will be deserved many times more, so that we can all win and become richer in the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U35	Arno Bridge, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U36	Thank you. However, companies have mentioned here and there such a thing that, given the capacity of this plant, 50% of the raw materials need to be imported from Latvia or elsewhere. Isn't there a danger that maybe there will be overdoing if a large factory is planned that works with imported materials? I will give you a sad example, not from the same area. The railway node was also built with great hurrah, but now it stands practically unused. Doesn't it work out that after the factory maybe there's no way to keep it going?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U37	Thank you for the clarification. At present, this is a purely private investment. The state does not intend to invest in it itself. That's one. Secondly, when the private sector has put together this business plan, I have asked them repeatedly. Indeed, they take into account the current volume of cutting in Estonia when purchasing raw materials. This means that they have no legitimate reason to believe that, because they need a lot of raw materials, in Estonia, someone is starting to increase the volume of felling because of them. I won't. They take into account that they have to import part of the wood, just as Finland or Sweden are currently importing Estonia. Our interest is that in Estonia it would be a factory where timber would be deserved. This is what our forest owners have to gain from. If they now sell their timber to sawmills who buy it cheaply because they deserve it less and take it out of Estonia as roundwood, then such a factory, where the timber is more deserved, can itself afford a higher price for the final product and can also buy raw materials at a higher price. Ultimately, the current forest owners will benefit from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U38	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I think you understand what the River Emajõgi means for Tartu, Tartumaa and South Estonia. In dealing with people, I have no idea why there is so little information about such a great undertaking. As a minister, do you realise that if the environmental risks of this plant materialise, which has been discussed, all of South Estonia's identity and the money we hope to make will actually become a negative value? As a minister, do you dare and are ready to take responsibility and tell all the Tartians and Tartumaans and South Estonians in general that if this factory comes there are no environmental risks and the South Estonians can be very calm? Even yesterday, watching the debate on Tartu in Estonian Television, I was amazed at how little information is available about the actual content of this factory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U40	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, all factories that are built in Estonia must meet environmental requirements. This is not just about this factory, it is a general requirement and the state does not intend to make any concessions in it. I can say in more detail that since this is a huge investment and venture, on 17 August this year, the Ministry of Finance announced a public procurement procedure to find consultants for this project, who advise the Ministry of Finance on the preparation of the country's special plan and its impact assessment, as well as carrying out studies which are currently known to need to be drawn up. This procurement is organised by the State Support Services Centre and the expected provider is a consortium composed of representatives of companies and research institutions, with competence and experience in drawing up plans, assessing impacts and also carrying out studies. Of course, the state does not intend to make any concessions in environmental requirements, and that is why the state's competent consultants are working to make their assessment. I am certainly not the consultant, but these are people who work in this area and who have experience and appropriate education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U42	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will now answer Artur Talvik's question. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U43	Good Prime Minister! Estonia is the President-in-Office of the European Union and this Presidency has also been called digitalisation. Estonia considers digital issues to be one of the most important issues and we recently had a very high level digital meeting. But exactly two days after this great international meeting of Heads of State, the Catalonia referendum took place and already a week or five days before that meeting, the Spanish authorities closed several sites where their political opinion was expressed and no one was called on to commit a crime. How did this digital conference come up with the same restriction or blocking of the Internet in Spain, and did it even come up?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U44	Thank you for this question. It is true that this is one of the priorities. I even think it is right that there are four priorities during the Estonian Presidency from 1 July to 31 December. The Digital Summit was, in this sense, a sign that, for the first time, the Member States of the European Union, together at leadership level, discussed digital issues, whether the free movement of data, technology 4.0 or more convenient e-solutions for the citizens of the European Union. The first question is whether this digital summit had a different attitude in this area, whether someone said that we had to move forward, and someone else said that there was no need to move forward. It seems to me that this attitude is very unanimous. This is because these services need to be further developed and are needed for these 510 million people in the European Union. The second issue is whether we have the infrastructure between countries. It's obvious it's not there. Of course, Estonia is willing to share its experience here in a good way, and very many people praised this good experience in Estonia. The third issue is whether we have the right rules. I see that this snowball is in a good way made to roll from Tallinn. Your question was whether it came up with the closure of Spanish websites. No, you didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U45	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U46	Good Prime Minister! Well, that was a brilliant answer, very well composed. Thank you for that. One of the main topics that Estonia, as the digital president, is the free movement of information. What the Spanish Government did in Catalonia was to restrict the free movement of information. There has also been talk in Estonia about the right to use the Internet as a human right. Have you discussed the issue of the closure of the free movement of the Internet by the Spanish central authority at all, as the Presidency, and/or have you approached the European Union's most important 'digital leader', Andrus Ansip, with the remark that Spain closed the free Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U47	Thank you. On the first question, you spoke about priorities. I gave you an overview and I fully agreed with you that digital is one of the main priorities. If you would like to know more specifically whether I have approached Andrus Ansip on this subject, I will say that I have not. Have I spoken to my colleagues about Spain? Yes, on a few occasions, I have spoken with the Spanish Prime Minister about this issue concerning Catalonia in general. I have said that Estonia certainly respects and respects the Spanish Constitution and the constitutional order, and I have expressed Estonia's support for Spain. So there's been talk about these issues. If you are asking whether there has been a discussion about why one or the other website is closed, then I will say no, there has been no discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U48	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U49	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! The Minister for Foreign Affairs of your government expressed his view a few decades ago that if a Member of Parliament is interested in the right of self-determination of the peoples and in why violence has been used against peaceful residents, he is engaged in the picking of an internal political point. I would like to know, Prime Minister, what do you think of the right of the peoples to self-determination. If you think the Catalans have this right to self-determination, how can they realise it and how should they do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U50	Thank you. I think you interpreted what the Foreign Minister said here a little bit as it fits through your eyes. I agree with what you said about the Foreign Minister taking the floor on this matter a few decades ago, and I also agree with what he said. When you ask me how I feel about self-determination, these issues must work and be resolved on the basis of national constitutions and laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U52	Now for Ants Laaneots' question to Foreign Minister Sven Mikser. Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U53	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Against the background of Russia's aggressive foreign policy and military force demonstrations in recent years, the last of which was the grand training 'Zapad 2017', the Latvian United Nations Centre party, led by its chairman, Nils Ušakovs, decided to terminate the cooperation agreement concluded in 2009 with Russia's leading party, United Russia. Mr. Secretary of State! In the face of Russia's years of anti-Estonianism and the sanctions imposed by the Western countries, your party's partner in the coalition, the Centre Party, has long refused to give up a similar cooperation protocol signed in 2004 in Tallinn with the Russian party mentioned. We've heard unopposed explanations from the leadership of the Centre Party, but we haven't seen any action. What other parties of the Prime Ministers of the European Union and NATO countries have a cooperation agreement with the Putin Party? How do you think such an agreement will affect Estonia's foreign policy image in the European Union and NATO?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U54	Thank you, Ants Laaneots! It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U55	Thank you. Good questioner, the subject of your question was the impact of international developments on Estonia. If you had given a little more detail about the precise content of your question in advance, I would have been able to check whether and if so, which prime minister parties in the Member States of the European Union have such an agreement. I do not have the information that some of the prime ministers' parties in the Member States of the European Union have such an agreement. Now the second part of your question, whether and if so to what extent it affects the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia. No, it has no impact on the foreign policy of the Republic of Estonia, neither in bilateral relations with Russia nor in any other bilateral or multilateral relations. Estonia is guided by its national interests in its relations with Russia and by the principles agreed with our partners and allies. Estonia has been very clearly in the position of the European Union, NATO and all other international organisations that international pressure on Russia must continue in order to bring Russia back to following the generally accepted principles of international law. Unfortunately, we have not seen any positive developments in this direction, which does not mean, as we could say, that one or the other measure has not worked. In the case of aggression against Ukraine, for example, and illegal annexation of Crimea, it can also be said that without a very clear, unanimous and strong response from the international community, these processes would probably have gone much further. There is no reason to believe that Russia's ambitions towards Ukraine, for example, were limited to what has been achieved today. So the clear and vigorous opposition of the international community, including Estonia, to such behaviour has certainly produced results, even if they have not fully satisfied us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U56	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U57	Honourable President! Respectable Minister of Foreign Affairs! However, I come back from the question of Mr Laaneots to our discussion today in Catalonia. That is the follow-up to the question put to the Prime Minister. Minister for Foreign Affairs, how do you think about the self-determination of peoples in the case of Catalans? In my opinion, this is the principle on which Estonia's independence is based, and it is at all the basis of a world order based on justice. But I understand from our Ministry of Foreign Affairs that since Spanish laws do not allow this, the Catalans do not have the opportunity to exercise their right to self-determination. How do you translate it? To what extent, then, is the right to self-determination guaranteed in the present world? How could they realize that? What steps do we need to take to realize this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U58	Thank you. As Professor Lauri Mälksoo said in his article a few days ago, who, I believe, is one of Estonia's best specialists in international law, there are two principles in international law. One deals with the self-determination of peoples and the other deals with the sovereignty and integrity of states. These principles sometimes collide. Since international law has not itself emerged or been given to us from anywhere above, but is in fact created by existing subjects of international law, or states themselves, then, as a rule, priority is given to the sovereignty of existing countries in the event of this conflict. This is a principle that, in one particular case or another, can be emotionally disturbing to someone. But this is the current overwhelming interpretation of this conflict that has been written into international law to a certain extent. However, it should be mentioned that international law deals with two types of self-determination: external self-determination and internal self-determination. This means, when translated into human languages, that, in the case of democratic countries, self-determination of peoples does not necessarily have to mean or lead to changes in existing borders. In addition, one of the fundamental principles of international law, and certainly a very important value for us, is the persistence and preservation of a rule-based international order, as well as international security and stability. This is also the reason why I and other leaders of the Estonian state have said that the solution must come in dialogue and non-violently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U59	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U60	The next question is from Monika Haukanõmme to Urve Palole, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U61	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. The Free Party stands for Estonia and, in fact, for the people who manage it themselves. The rules that the state imposes must encourage people's livelihood, not create obstacles. Unfortunately, we see that this is not always the case, because the steps taken by the Government of the Republic are also throwing sticks into the spokes here. What am I referring to? I think you already know. On 1 July 2015, the Construction Act came into force. Good legislative practice provides that the necessary essential regulations will be in force at the same time as the law. Unfortunately, two and a half years have passed, but a regulation on accessibility, which is crucial, has not yet been adopted, even though it has been repeatedly asked, stakeholders are involved and everyone understands. A very simple question: when will this regulation come? After all, we are creating barriers ourselves today, because the buildings that are currently being built do not meet accessibility requirements and cannot be used by people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U62	Thank you. Of course, it is very important to ensure that people can cope on their own, this is a matter of human dignity. For this, I believe, the whole government is working, as is Parliament. Now let's talk about a specific case. In fact, there is disinformation here, as if the absence of one regulation led to the situation that buildings do not always meet the standards and requirements that should ensure that people with disabilities are able to cope there. The reality is that there is a principle in the building code that a building must be designed and constructed and maintained in accordance with good practice. This requirement also includes relevant technical standards, standards and guidance materials, including those related to persons with disabilities. Although this 'good practice' may in itself sound like a rhetorical expression, people who work in the construction industry know very well what it means. It is an expression of expertise that involves a complex professional system. All educated and experienced architects and engineers understand this very well. Good practice ensures that construction projects are prepared by professionals, qualified persons and that they also apply standards and guidance materials in a professional manner. There is, in turn, a procedure for the adoption of the building. People who receive the building must make sure that good practice is followed, including accessibility for people with disabilities. There are, in fact, no obstacles to this at the moment, and there cannot be a lack of regulation. We will, of course, do everything to ensure that the regulation is adopted quickly, so that there is no confusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U63	Monika Haukanõmm, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I certainly want to disprove this argument as if we are talking about people with disabilities. I won't. We are actually talking about a much wider target group, we are talking about older people, tourists, mothers with baby carriages. Surely there is no way to marginalise or make this target group smaller. Secondly, it is inevitable that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would have set itself up as an outsider in relation to this issue, so that it would be as if it were the responsibility of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The accessibility council has also been set up at the Ministry of Social Affairs, although it is clearly the subject of the economy and entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. It's such a big target group we're excluding right now. Often, these requirements make buildings, transport, and everything more expensive. When money plays and money talks, how much more will one building become more expensive than making it accessible to all people, or how much more would urban or land transport be more expensive if we had accessible buses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U65	Thank you. First of all, I'm sorry if I insulted anyone. Indeed, I do not want to narrow this target group. 'Truthed people' was an incorrect expression here, I meant people with special needs. I, too, may at some point have a special need, like when I'm in a wheelchair because I've broken my leg, but I have to get to the second or third floor. I absolutely agree with you. Or indeed, people with a pram belong to this group. These requirements concern a very large group of people. I wanted to say that, in fact, the construction code already states that the new buildings that will be built must be accessible to all these target groups, including people who are temporarily or permanently in special need. So there are no direct obstacles here right now. But the regulation has been drawn up for a long time, and it has to be accepted. My ladies and gentlemen have said that there have been setbacks in the regulation procedure, in particular, there have been disputes with target groups about road requirements. However, it has come to the point that we intend to send the regulation to the coordination circle in this month, October. We hope not to go into major disputes and the feedback is that we can enforce this regulation. We'll see. Once again, buildings must still be accessible, not behind the regulation. But the regulation might make it easier to understand. We will not have this regulation behind us. As far as price comparisons are concerned, I am not currently prepared to answer you. But I stress once again: all new buildings in Estonia must be accessible. Officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are not responsible for this; builders are responsible for this. According to the construction code, it is the responsibility of the people who accept the building. That's it. But if there are gaps in the law that need to be filled, then on the legislative side, of course, we can contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U66	Urmas Kruuse, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U67	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Minister! Just for the record, buses with low bottoms have long sailed in Tartu and transport is not free. But I have been approached by several members and chairmen of the cooperatives. They have received information that KredEx's programmes, which have existed during a number of governments and are designed to renovate houses and improve energy efficiency, are basically out of money and all kinds of resources are allocated to the rental houses programme. I ask you very clearly and specifically: has this money ended, or is it, and how much additional funds will be added to this fund next year, or how much of these funds will be distributed? I understand these people's concerns, because in the secondary market, apartments in unrenovated houses would no longer be competitive compared to apartments in those houses that have been renovated and insulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U68	Thank you, good questioner! I am very pleased that you have asked this question because, indeed, there is disinformation now, which, I hope, has not come from maliciousness, but simply rumors have arisen and so this disinformation has passed on. But these are the facts. For this budget period, which concerns EU funds until 2020, the government, through KredEx, provided EUR 104 million for the insulation of apartment buildings. This money would have been around EUR 25 million a year to be distributed over the years. When we talk in general about the absorption capacity of the market in such works, i.e. how much work can be done by those construction companies that specialise in the insulation of apartment buildings (there are their own specifics), we are talking about EUR 20 to 25 million a year. This volume, which would have been directed towards the market, would have been something like this. Regrettably, KredEx did not distribute these funds over the years 25, 25 and 25, accepting applications for EUR 25 million each year, but put 104 million on the market at once. It happened that during the year no one applied for this money because projects were made and next year, figuratively, projects were received from housing associations for the entire 104 million. Of this 104 million, only 23% have been disbursed. This means that the next year and the following year, together, there will be EUR 80 million for this market, which is much more than the market's absorption capacity. It's already heated this sector. Unfortunately, this situation has arisen because of KredEx. It would in no way make sense to put more money there now, but there must be more resources for 2020 and beyond. We will certainly see if this money can be obtained from the resources of the new budget period or if the state puts own resources in it, but it does not affect in any way the municipal rental housing programme, it is a whole other money, putting money there would not do anything right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U69	Thank you, honourable Riigikogu. Thank you, Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology. Question Time's over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U70	Honourable Riigikogu, a good day who has not yet been seen! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U71	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Six members of the Riigikogu have an inquiry to the Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson. Both Mr Hansson and other experts from Eesti Pank, including Kaspar Oja, have pointed out that in the light of recent economic indicators in Estonia (decreased unemployment, growing labour shortages, accelerated economic growth and inflation) the further stimulation of the economy through the state budget is incomprehensible, and the President of the Bank has repeatedly criticised the government's desire to leave the budget deficit for the coming year. People's ambassadors who have submitted an inquiry highly appreciate the experts of Eesti Pank, therefore, 'in order to give you the opportunity to present your views to all members of the Riigikogu during the budgetary procedure for the coming year; in particular, hoping that the coalition ambassadors will also find time to listen to you, we have the following questions for you. ' We have put three important questions to the President of Eesti Pank, and our wish to you, ladies and gentlemen, has been passed on. If the Governor of Eesti Pank can come before us, it would be nice if we paid due attention to this answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U72	Thank you. Any more wishes? No more wishes. I have adopted one inquiry, and if it happens to comply with the principles of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, we will forward it. Incoming check, please! 78 members of the Riigikogu are present, 23 are missing. To clarify the agenda, I would say so much that at the debate on the sixth item, i.e. the first reading of draft law 517 amending the law on family benefits initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws relating thereto, the President of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, will make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U73	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law 360 on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. Dear Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? Since the draft requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law, we will do a verification of the presence. 78 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 360. Please take a stand and vote. Calm down, please! Everything is understandable, everything is interesting, but nevertheless there were 75 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of this law, there were no respondents or neutral parties. The Act amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U74	The following is the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Small Islands with permanent settlement initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Law on the amendment of the Law on the Ground. The initiators' waitress is Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U75	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! On 1 January 2004, the Small Islands Act entered into force, the purpose of which is to support the development of small islands and the preservation of permanent settlement in the smaller islands of Estonia. According to the population register, there are currently about 1,700 inhabitants living in the small islands of Estonia. It is the task of the State to support these communities and municipalities in providing services to residents, as it is clearly more costly and complex on the small islands to provide public services than on the mainland. This applies to municipalities which are either small islands themselves or which have a small island in their territory. The Small Islands Act regulates the support allocated to the smaller islands and the small island communities are supported by the activities of the state and local government to help meet the additional cost needs due to the insular nature of the island. The Act also regulates opportunities for local participation, such as the provision of transport, communications services, electricity and island watchkeeping services and the organisation of small islands. The law provides for a list of permanent settlements in the smaller islands. Support from the state budget will be granted to these islands and will be subject to legal differences. The current law lists the smaller islands of permanent residence by name: Abruka, Kihnu, Kesselaid, Kõistu, Manija, Osmussaar, Piirissaar, Prangli, Ruhnu, Vilsandi and Vormsi. This list can only be amended by amending the law in the Riigikogu and does not depend on the existence of a community in the small island. Therefore, the law does not cover some small islands where there is actually a community of permanent residents, but at the same time obliges the granting of support to small islands where there is no permanent population at some point. The purpose of the draft law submitted to the Riigikogu is to facilitate the amendment of the list in order to ensure equal treatment of the smaller islands. The Act sets out the criteria for inclusion in the list of permanent resident smaller islands. This will ensure that the inclusion of islands in the list takes place on a clear and objective basis. The aim is to grant the right to confirm the list of permanent resident smaller islands on the basis of a criterion to the Government of the Republic, which is certainly a more flexible solution and allows the list to be amended every year if necessary. The process of excluding a small island from the list would then be transparent, systematic and predictable. With the draft law, we propose that five permanent residents be established as a criterion for at least six months in a calendar year. The selection of the criterion is based on the principle that the small island should have a permanent community in need of services and support. If this criterion were approved, Aegna Island, with 11 inhabitants, Naissaar with eight inhabitants and Väike-Pakri and Kräsul with five inhabitants would be added to the list of small islands next year. According to the draft law, the first list of smaller islands will be established when the Act enters into force in 2018 and will include all the smaller islands previously mentioned in the Act and, in addition, the smaller islands fulfilling the criterion. Thus, 15 small islands would be included, with permanent residents everywhere. Thereafter, changes to the list shall be confirmed at the beginning of each year and only islands fulfilling the five-person criterion shall remain on the list. The proposal also introduces other changes as set out in the sectoral laws. We have set out to integrate targeted municipal support into the municipal income base. We also follow the same principle in the case of support from the smaller islands by adding aid to the compensatory fund, but not taking into account the income of the municipalities, so that it can also be allocated to the municipality of Viimsi, for example, where several small islands are located. The draft removes the obligation to ensure regular line connections to each of the smaller islands listed in the Act, which does not work in practice, and is based on the feasibility of using resources. Internships have been such that regular regular regular services with the smaller islands are opened when the population is sufficient to justify costly subsidised public regular services. In any case, the current law imposes an obligation to ensure the transport of small islands to the mainland or to the nearest major island, even if there is no real need and no demand for regular transport. The amendment provides for the transport of small islands to be connected to the mainland or to the nearest large islands as required by the Public Transport Act. The need for additional resources to create new transport links and to connect with the smaller islands that are added to the list will be assessed annually in the preparation of the national budget strategy. The amendments also state that it is not mandatory to convene the General Assembly in island municipalities, as it has been very difficult to reach a meeting on the basis of experience when deciding on the quorum of the General Assembly. This quorum shall include permanent residents over the age of 15 of the smaller island. As a transversal amendment, the possibility of a small island being located on the territory of the city is added to the text of the Act. For example, Aegna Island is located on the territory of the municipality and, after administrative reform, Manija Island will be located on the territory of the municipality of Pärnu. In the state budget for 2017, the amount of support for small islands belonging to the municipal support fund is EUR 416000 and the existing island guards' posts are set at EUR 73125. Due to the additional islands, it is planned to increase the budget for small islands by nearly EUR 100000. According to the draft, the amendments would enter into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U76	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U77	Thank you. Minister, thank you for the fact that this bill, which has been prepared for at least a few years and which has been debated, has finally reached this hall. I will ask how the communities of the islands now feel about this draft, whether everyone agrees with it or whether there are some disputes still up. I'm also asking about expenses. Has this additional EUR 100000 already been added to the draft state budget law submitted to the Riigikogu to ensure that this soup does not become less favourable for other small islands, which would certainly create tensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U78	Thank you for your question. These additional costs have been taken into account in the draft State Budget Act. There will certainly be an island watcher component added to the equalization fund formula, which is also a certain amount calculated for each island. In the past, the island guards were hired by the governor of the country, and now this task goes to the municipality, who decides where he will hire the island guards, and he will have the resources to do so. As far as the size of these funds is concerned, they have indeed been at one level for ten years, I am referring to the support paid from the support fund for the small islands. The question of whether we are going to index it in any way, even with the consumer price index, is certainly raised in the negotiations on the state budget in the spring at all, because the second part of the municipal income base, personal income tax, is basically increasing. There have been very extreme times when it has not grown. We should actually take the same principle into account in the fine-tuning fund so that at least a minimum increase is there. I'm sure I'd like the small islands' support to grow by that. As far as coordination is concerned, the whole of the islands have had a negative opinion on some of the points. The question of whether it should be mandatory has been raised by the General Assembly. I have also visited Kihnu Island, for example, where it has been said that it is hopeless to meet the general assembly. In fact, it is possible for local authorities, even those on the island or in rural municipalities to which the small island belongs, to lay down the rights of the general assembly and its possible rights. So it hasn't been taken away.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U79	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U80	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I will continue with the previous question. The island collection has, as you know, asked dozens of questions or suggestions. They repeat one motive. They do not agree with the abandonment by the State of important links to the smaller islands and the reduction in the State's liability in this matter. Please, how do you comment on this complaint?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U81	Thanks for asking. Yes, that question was also raised in the Commission. First of all, nothing has been abandoned, just in practical life these connections have been arranged differently. If there is still a smaller island and fewer inhabitants, we say that there is also a small island with five inhabitants, then other solutions have been found. Continuous regular services are not subsidised, but produced by different means of transport. For example, this year funds were allocated from the small islands programme to purchase hovercraft on Piirissaare. This kind of investment in the smaller islands is a good opportunity for me to say this, and the small islands programme, amounting to EUR 637000 this year, will also support it. There is also scope to support some of the smaller investments associated with associations. This will continue next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U82	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U83	Good manager! Good minister! I look at these little islands, but I can't see the Piirissaar anywhere. Can't I find it here, or is it that Lake Peipsi isn't like a lake and there's no islands? Why is this island, which has a little less than 100 people in it, out of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U84	I'm going to rediscover the text of the law. As far as I know, the border island is still on that list. He is inside the current law and will also be in the new version of the law. The border island is inside this law on permanent settlements of small islands.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U85	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U86	Thank you! Good waitress! Having been a member of the City Council of Tallinn for 12 years, I have remembered that the Tallinn Council has adopted a very strange legislation that Tallinn itself does not consider the island of Aegna to be a small island. I think that in advance, the Tallinn Council should repeal this legislation so that you can move on with this issue. I'm just saying to remind you that Tallinn, in anticipation of the real estate boom, wanted to build a comprehensive school on the island of Aegna, even though two residents had been registered there at the time. First of all, you should look at it with the city of Tallinn, the Commission, because otherwise your proposal is simply not acceptable; it is now the administrative territory of the city centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U87	Thank you for your question. Indeed, Aegna is not currently listed in the Small Islands Act. Once again, this is a precise list in the law, and the biggest change is that it is possible to change this list on the basis of these criteria every year, also on the basis of where there are permanent residents. Adena Island becomes a small island with permanent residence according to this law amendment. I cannot comment on Tallinn's decisions on Aegna Island, I should see if they are in conflict with existing legislative changes, but there is even such a possibility in the explanatory memorandum that Aegna Island can become a part of the city, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U88	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U89	Good manager! Good minister! I read here that if you want to become a municipality or a part of a city and half of the population or more than half of the resident make this proposal, it is possible. If 27 Manila residents decide to be part of Pärnu next to Rääma, will that be the case? Or if 52 inhabitants of Piirissaare want to become a public domain, will that be the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U90	Thank you for your question. The right to initiate this is precisely the quorum you read, but the final decision is made by the local government council. Whether the island becomes a district or a municipality, it is the exclusive competence of the council and no one can prescribe it to it. But it's possible to bring the matter up in front of the council in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U91	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! How thoroughly has the national cultural aspects of this bill been considered and the security aspects of the state on the other hand? I found only one comment in the explanatory memorandum that there is no impact on national security. But at the same time, I know that in the past, this whole island issue has always had a certain security aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U93	Thank you for your question. When ministries coordinated the draft, they probably looked at this issue as well. Trying to answer in general, I say that if there are more small islands on the list where there is support and interest from both the municipality and the state, I think it will only improve the security aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U94	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U95	Minister, I am so sorry. This question is not for you, and it has nothing to do with you. I'm just taking this chance that I've been given a microphone. I have a procedural question for the manager. When I got here, I saw that bill 360 was a cricket! voted on. What do you say, fast boys! What should I have done if today, as it turns out, 20 parking spaces had disappeared from the Riigikogu and parking controls were made on cars everywhere else? By the way, I'm submitting a fine to the Riigikogu for payment. If I'd known you guys were gonna pull this kind of bull and get rid of parking around here, I'd have walked away from home an hour early. What's the situation like in the future? I ask for a very clear answer because it has procedural significance. I have a right not to come here if I don't think it's necessary. In this case, I thought it was necessary. By the way, you can take a five-minute head break, take a look at it and then tell me what to do, board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U96	This remark is not about the conduct of the sitting. Please, Igor Gräzin, don't interrupt the hearing! Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U97	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! The Assembly of Islands has sent a letter to the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Its third view is that the removal of the right to amend and supplement the list of permanent settlements of small islands from the Riigikogu and its granting to the Government of the Republic, which may not have a consistent understanding at all, on the basis of the example of the establishment of settlement criteria in this draft... How do you respond to whether the government still has a consistent understanding or whether it may disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U98	Thank you for your question. I believe that in most areas that are somehow run by government and ministries in Estonia, there has been a consistent vision of things all along. But this bill is a government proposal. If the Riigikogu wants to make a difference here, it is in your hands, you can make amendments. In a purely rational way, it would be difficult to change the law every year because of this list. It would be more objective if the small island with permanent settlement had certain criteria and could change this list in an operational manner. This is also due to subsidies. Some small islands have been treated unequally because they have established a permanent establishment, but if the Riigikogu does not change the law, it simply does not receive support. But then it could still be reviewed every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U99	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I listened to your answer. You said the island of Aegna could become a part of the city. Unlike you, I think that eight people are not enough to become a part of the city. However, it does call into question the sincerity of this story, as if it were recommended to promote the lives of the small islands of permanent residence, if you already foresee that this is going to be a separate part of Tallinn. Isn't this about directing state money, let's say, to the city of Tallinn, who, anyway, is not a good master of this money? After all, you should have closer contact with the matter, and therefore new knowledge, whether we are going to talk about the part of the city because of this legislative amendment or whether we are still talking about the island of Aegna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U101	Thanks for asking. I'm just saying there's a chance in the law. Peeter Ernits, a member of the Riigikogu, asked about the conditions under which this could happen. It's described here. There is always a final decision as to whether the island becomes a municipality or a district in the hands of the local government council. I gave you this example, I'm not saying that Timena has to become a part of the city. This is not a law-based decision. This decision has been given to the municipality. As far as the grant is concerned, all small islands with permanent residence shall be treated equally. In Viimsi, this change creates two small islands and, although Viimsi does not otherwise receive money from the Equalisation Fund, it receives money from that law. It does not take into account that there is such a good income tax receipts and that it will otherwise not receive any money from the fine-tuning fund. The same answer is also true of Tallinn, Tallinn has not been treated differently in any way. The same can be said of Viimsi, yes, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U103	Good manager! Good minister! One question to educate yourself. If five people live on a small island, they have to live at two addresses. What if there's a big family or maybe six people live at one address? What's the real logic here? Or if there are a father, a mother, and seven or six children in the family?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U104	Thanks for asking. In one of the draft options, this was once a two-address requirement inside, now there is no longer that, either one smoke or two smokes. It is now said that there may be one cigarette if there are five people living in this house. Then it's a small community, there are five permanent residents, and this island goes under this criterion. So you don't have to have two addresses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U105	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Kalle Laanet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U106	Good manager! Minister and colleagues! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this bill on 25 September 2017. Marko Pomerants, Jüri Adams, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laane, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Peeter Ernits and Tiit Terik and advisers Erle Eneveer, Karin Tuulik and Kristo Varend took part in the meeting. There was no Arto Aas. Minister Aab, Adviser to the Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Finance, Kaie Küngas, and Head of the Financial Management Department of local governments Sulev Liivik were invited. So what was it about? The Minister gave an overview of the content of the draft law. I'm not going to go over this again. He just gave you enough insight into these changes. What was asked? I asked what would be the assessment of whether there were five residents in the smaller islands on a permanent basis, whether they were based solely on registered residence, or whether they still had to live physically on the island. The Minister replied that in the future the population register of the persons would take into account the place of residence, i.e. if, according to the population register, the small island has five inhabitants for at least six months per year, the island would be counted as a small island with permanent residence. Peeter Ernits said that he had been approached by a citizen and noted that the Government of the Republic had not taken into account any substantive and constructive proposals from the Estonian Islands Assembly when drafting the draft. The Estonian Association of Islands has drawn the Government of the Republic's attention to several shortcomings in the draft, but the Government of the Republic has not taken this into account. How does the Government of the Republic comment on this and why have the proposals of the Estonian Island Assembly not been taken into account? The Minister replied that the Government had discussed the proposals of the Estonian Isles Assembly in depth and that part of the proposals had also been taken into account. According to the Estonian Association of Islands, the main problem is that the list of permanent settlements in the smaller islands will be established in the future by a decree of the Government of the Republic. However, this amendment is necessary because the list of small islands with permanent residence may need to be amended frequently and it is unreasonable to do so by law at the level of the Riigikogu. The law sets out the criteria for the government to include or remove islands on the list of permanent resident smaller islands. The Minister noted that he had recently met with Mark Soosaar, who has proposals for the draft, but by that time the Government of the Republic had already submitted a draft to the Riigikogu proceedings. The Minister advised Mr Soosaar to submit these proposals to the Riigikogu so that the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu can discuss them during the procedure and, if it wishes, submit them as amendments. Mr Pomerants suggested involving interest groups, including the Estonian Island Assembly, in the preparation of the second reading of the draft. Mr Ernits asked if the Small Islands, which, after the municipal elections on 15 October, are located in urban-subordinated islands, such as Manija, are no longer subject to the law on permanent settlements. The Minister replied that the law on permanent settlement of small islands would continue to apply to small islands with urban subordinate status. Mr Hallemaa asked why this law also amends the law on the ground. The chairman of the committee replied that, as far as he knew, the amendments to the law on the ground were purely technical. Mr Adams asked why § 1, points 3, 7, 8, 11 and 13 of the draft and § 2 of the draft were foreseen to enter into force on 1 January 2018, when the rest of the draft would enter into force normally. Kaie Küngas, of the Ministry of Finance, replied that the provisions that enter into force on 1 January 2018 relate to support for small islands, which will be paid out next year. This year it has already been paid out to the smaller islands. The changes related to the fact that the small island may continue to be located on the territory of the city could enter into force in general terms, since after the local government council elections on 15 October, for example, the island of Manija will be located on the territory of the city of Pärnu. Mr Adams asked why Paragraph 1 (12) of the draft provides that a local government entity with an island municipality or an insular part has the right to purchase immovable property on a small island. Adams noted that, as far as he is aware, the right of pre-emption of local governments applies to real estate transactions throughout the territory of Estonia as of 1993. Kaie Küngas replied that the draft does not change the provisions governing the right of pre-emption in question in substance. It shall be amended only to the extent that the words 'with an island municipality' shall be replaced by 'with an island section on a local government unit'. This means that the right of pre-emption of immovable property can also apply to a small island located on the territory of the city. Adams said that he considered it incomprehensible that § 1 (7) of the draft law on the permanent settlement of small islands, § 61, which regulates the expectations of residents living at one address. Kaie Küngas replied that this provision meant that if five persons living on a small island were registered at one address, they would not be subject to the regulation concerning the general body of the island under Articles 5 and 6 of the Act on the Small Islands with permanent residence and the right to propose the formation of a municipality and a district. It seeks to avoid a situation where, for example, a small island household could form a municipality or a district. Ivari Padar asked how much public support is available for small islands. The Minister replied that the amount of the grant was EUR 416000. However, this support has remained at the same level for ten years. One of the major issues to be discussed by the Government of the Republic is the indexation of the municipal equalization fund, which is likely to be reached in the 2019 state budget negotiations. Then it will also be possible to increase the support for the smaller islands, the Minister's response was. What was decided? To propose that the draft be sent to the plenary agenda by 11 October, i.e. today (consensual decision), that the draft should be closed (consensual decision), that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, 25 October 2017 at 5.15 p.m. (consensual decision), and that Mr Laane, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, be appointed rapporteur (consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U107	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Kalle Laane! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 493 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U108	The following is the first reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, on behalf of the rapporteur's initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U109	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We are pleased to introduce the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and related amendments to other laws 512. First of all, I'm gonna tell you a little bit about the background. The draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and related amendments to other laws is a very fundamental draft in terms of financing health care, which increases the state's contribution to health care and ensures the sustainability of the health insurance system. It can be said that this is a change that has been needed a long time ago, which has been very much discussed by a number of specialists in previous years, but which has not been achieved so far in terms of political decision-making. In international comparison, public spending on health care in Estonia is quite low in terms of GDP compared to that of other European countries. In Estonia, the share of public health expenditure in GDP was 4.9% in 2015, the OECD average was 6.5% and the European Union average was 7.8%. So we can say that we have contributed quite little to health care. Given how little we have contributed, we have managed to get quite good healthcare through smart health management, but of course we want better. International as well as national studies and forecasts have shown that Estonian health care depends mainly on employment-based funding, which creates growing difficulties in the context of the income base and in our ability to provide good and accessible healthcare. This is due to our demographic situation, where, on the one hand, the number of people who need more healthcare is increasing due to an ageing population, and, on the other hand, the number of people who contribute to their labour taxes to the health care system is decreasing. As early as 2005, the assessment of the Estonian health funding system by the World Health Organisation pointed out that the Estonian health insurance system is exceptional, mainly based on labour taxes. We have still been given these recommendations so that we can only move forward from a system based on labour taxes and complement the existing system with other, more stable revenues, as many other countries in Europe have done. Since these changes have not been made, we have gradually seen a certain but persistent deterioration of the situation, which Estonian patients have felt through a decrease in access to medical care or an increase in queues. According to Eurostat's 2014 Pan-European Income and Living Conditions Survey, the need for health care in Estonia is one of the largest in comparison with other European countries. In 2013, 11.3% of people over the age of 16 lost help because it was either too expensive, too far away or the queue was too long. In the population aged 65 and over, this proportion was even higher at 16.1%. In this ranking, only Latvia (12,5%) beats Estonia, while the average share of the European Union is nearly three times smaller, at a level of 3.6%. Thus, the deterioration in the availability of medical care that our people feel relates primarily to the limited budget of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which has been consistently negative since 2013. It has been necessary to use the undistributed result previously accumulated by the Health Insurance Fund in order to ensure services in the available amount. The structural deficit of the health insurance fund's budget is not a sign that the long-term sustainability of the system requires a change in funding principles and complementing the existing employment-based income base with other state budget revenues. Consequently, the Government of the Republic decided on 23 April on a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs. a approve these amendments. Now these proposals, in the form of this bill, have come before you. I will give you more details on these proposals. The proposals can be divided into two parts, the first part concerns the expansion of the revenue base and the second one concerns the organisation of health care, which is being made at the same time. First of all, I'm talking about money. In order to ensure the sustainability of the financing of health care, it was decided to extend the income base of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund and contribute further to the budget, by means of a state budget provision calculated from the pension of non-working old-age pensioners, which will be 7% in the following year, 10% in 2019, 11% in 2020, 12% in 2021 and 13% in 2022 of the average pension of non-working old-age pensioners. Pensioners who are currently not in employment do not contribute to the health insurance system and the part of the social security contribution paid on the salaries of employed persons also covers their medical treatment costs, as they are equal persons within the meaning of the law. According to the draft, the budget of the sickness fund will pay an additional allowance each month from the state budget for each pension not employed. The provision is taken into account by the Social Insurance Board as it contains both the cost data of the state pension and access to the data of the employment register. In addition, it was decided to make part of the services financed by the state budget financed by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund financed in order to reduce the fragmentation of funding and increase the efficiency of the health care system as part of the expansion of the income base of the Health Insurance Fund. These changes will be made gradually. In 2018, part of the services financed so far by the state budget will be transferred to the health insurance fund, such as reimbursement of adult dental care, ambulance, fertility care and some other financing obligations. The following are hereby appointed to the Committee of the Regions for the remainder of the current term of office, which runs until 25 January 2020: In the framework of the national budget strategy for 2018, it has been decided to allocate 89 million euros to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund for non-working old age and people's pensioners in 2018, 133 million euros in 2019, 153 million euros in 2020 and 176 million euros in 2021. For services financed from the state budget, the Health Insurance Fund will be given additional responsibilities in 2018 for the next year for EUR 55 million, for EUR 87 million in 2019 and for EUR 100 million from 2020. As a result of the changes proposed by the draft, the consolidation of the revenue base and health care costs will lead to a shift in the availability and quality of health care to a net net impact of EUR 34 million next year, EUR 46 million in 2019, EUR 53 million in 2020 and EUR 76 million in 2021. On a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, the draft provides health insurance for monks and nuns belonging to a monastery registered in the register of religious associations. This issue has also been in public debate for some time. We are giving this opportunity so that religious associations do not have to deal with different schemes in order to guarantee sickness insurance for monks and nuns. This affects almost 80 people in Estonia. In addition, a longer plan to consolidate health expenditure is planned next year. As has been said, we are doing this by negotiating the way in which these services are organised and by negotiating with the parties in order to mitigate the potential risks of organising the financing of these services. Next year, it concerns eight services: the dental service I have already talked about, the provision of general anaesthesia for dental care for adults with deep mental disabilities, the ambulance, reimbursement of fertility treatment costs, support for the work of the HIV and AIDS treatment consilium, the provision of long-distance medical consultation for seafarers around the clock on board ships, the additional medical allowance we will discuss on the next item, and the replacement fees for family doctors. Since 2019, HIV medicines, the acquisition of immune products, the financing of unavoidable aid for uninsured persons, the acquisition of tuberculosis medicines and antidotes, followed by ensuring the performance of the tasks of a national transplant agency and the consolidation of residency. There will be no change in the substantive arrangements for these services in the context of consolidation of services next year. There have been some fears here that if an ambulance goes to the health insurance fund, whether the ambulance service can only be provided by insured persons and so on. I confirm that there will be no substantive change in the volume of the service. Services that were previously organised through, for example, the Health Board will be organised through the Health Insurance Fund in the future. But, of course, bringing together the various costs will allow a more synergistic and holistic view of costs and thus certainly, ultimately, better governance of the healthcare system. Of course, the changes concerning consolidation also require some restructuring of the health insurance fund's work. Additional tasks also involve some additional costs for the health insurance fund. This cost has been calculated; next year the cost of the sickness fund will be about half a million euros, which will be covered by the sickness fund's budget. Of course, some IT developments are also necessary. On the other hand, the additional resources allocated to the health insurance fund, agreed by the government and also in the Health Insurance Fund Board, have been given the so-called national guidance that the additional resources will go as a priority to shorten the order of treatment for specialised medical care. I think that's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U110	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U111	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Please, let's talk about some more money. I'm interested in the issue of reserves. I'm sure there's a lot of possible approaches here, but maybe you're going to introduce what kind of operation you just got to that 5.4% or why you stayed with it. On the one hand, the modest mind says that perhaps there should be no reduction, 6% could be left, on the other hand, if you read this table of proposals, it seems to me that the Association of Doctors and the Association of Hospitals would like to reduce it further. Please explain this logic a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U112	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't tell you that. Indeed, the Health Insurance Fund currently has three sources of basic annual income that can finance health care services or statutory tasks. Firstly, it is the unallocated result, if there is one and there is one. In recent years, as I mentioned, if the Health Insurance Fund has gone to a disadvantage in the current year, the money has come from the unallocated coming from the sickness fund collected in previous years when times were better. In addition, two reserves of defence have been established by law. One is a risk reserve of 2% of the budget and the other is a reserve capital of 6% of the annual budget. One of them may be used with the permission of the Government and on a proposal from the Council, and the other may be used by the Health Insurance Fund at the Council's discretion, both for emergency situations. The logic behind the creation of these reserves has been that, in a situation where health insurance budgets are based on almost 100% labour tax, the economic crisis will mean that if this has occurred suddenly enough and the recession has been severe, the income of the health insurance fund will fall very rapidly. In order to ensure that the health insurance fund does not become insolvent immediately in the first months, so that health care can no longer be provided because the income paid to the health insurance fund by the tax office each month on the receipt of social security contributions has fallen away, a buffer has been created. Its original logic, said by the people who were in the original law of the Health Insurance Fund, was broadly that the Health Insurance Fund would be able to cover its liabilities within about two months, even if the income was drastically reduced. In any case, if the recession is to be large enough, we should look for other ways to deal with this situation. In a situation where we have expanded the revenue base, there are two reasons why we have thought that instead of 6% it could be 5.4%. Firstly, the fact that the new system reduces the link between the income of the Health Insurance Fund and labour taxes, as this provision, which comes, is based not on labour taxes, but on the state budget provision relating to pensions, and pensions, as we know, do not automatically decrease during the economic crisis. In other words, there is also an automatic stabiliser because, since the state pays the provision only for non-working pensioners, the employment of the elderly, as well as the general employment in society, will be reduced when the economic crisis arrives, which means that many older people will become inactive, leading to an automatic increase in the income of the health insurance fund. So this automatic stabilizer allowed you to choose this model, so instead of 6%, you could have a slightly lower percentage, which is 5.4. Why is it 5.4%? It was calculated, together with the Ministry of Finance, with an accuracy of a percentage point, that its risk capital would be similar to what it was before, without this provision, on the basis of the new revenue base.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U113	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, When I introduced this bill that you are presenting and the next draft that you will be presenting soon, it struck me that both lacked the intention to develop. Does the Minister consider this unnecessary? What is behind this decision? I mean, it's more like bad lawmaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U115	Thank you. I think that the intention to develop is very relevant in cases where new solutions are sought to problems where possible solutions have not been analysed very thoroughly in the past. I would argue that this particular issue, the financing of health care, has been analysed very thoroughly at least since 2004. We have a great many national and international analyses, which confirm more or less the same, that the revenue base needs to be complemented by revenue that is not based on labour taxes. Based on these analyses, we have decided in the government that this draft will be dealt with without the intention to develop, as all the alternatives (this is the point of the intention to develop, to show what these alternatives are) have been considered quite thoroughly over the years. The other thing is that it is also a serious and acute concern of the Estonian people, that they do not get to the doctor in time, but it would certainly have taken more time to make the intention to develop. It usually takes almost six months for this process to be developed. Its preparation, coordination, the processing of feedback and on this basis, usually takes about this much time to move forward with the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U116	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U117	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There's still another mess in my mind. I heard you used the expression 'pay for pensioners' again. Such an expression gives the impression that the state will now pay a health insurance fee for pensioners. However, there is no point in the draft that amends the provision that pensioners are treated as insured persons. So what is it now? Are we talking about raising pensioners from one category to another, from persons treated as insured to another, or simply changing the so-called mathematical model of state funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U118	We have also had this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. Yeah, that's definitely an important question. When I say that the state pays for pensioners, it really does not mean that pensioners move from persons treated with insured persons to "normally insured persons," but that additional amounts are allocated from the state budget in order to meet the objectives set out in the Health Insurance Act, including the objective of providing high-quality and accessible medical care to those entitled to receive it. This provision is calculated on the basis of 13% of the pension for non-employed pensioners. There is, yes, within its so-called logic, it has been calculated as an analogy to the normal employee's health insurance contributions, but legally, it is a state budget provision, which is calculated as a certain mathematical basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U119	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U120	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I will continue the topic initiated by Krista Aru. The reputation of the Health Insurance Fund has not been the strongest in our society, and it has been damaged by various scandals about the targeted use of money. With regard to the drafts we are discussing today, the impact and functionality of the Health Insurance Fund are increasing. However, when I look at the table of comments, I see that the Health Insurance Fund sends a signal that they are not able or willing to talk about such a large package of amendments. You said there was no need for a plan to be developed. It's like some scissors in here. How do you guarantee that the Health Insurance Fund will be prepared for such changes and will be able to overcome these reputational losses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U121	Thank you. As far as reputation is concerned, its improvement is one of the important tasks of the new Chairman of the Executive Board, who will take office on the next Monday. However, as regards the addition of tasks, it is true that when institutions are given more responsibility, these authorities are not usually overjoyed about this. This is a health policy decision to reduce the fragmentation of healthcare funding. If the legislator supports this proposal, the Health Insurance Fund will organise it and will certainly manage it. In order to reduce the risks that may arise during this transitional period, we have taken a very calm pace. If you look at this law, you will see that we are moving forward gradually, we will certainly be working on many changes in terms of 'content', so that when these changes come into force, all parties will be prepared for this and all risks will be grounded. For example, since the partners had some reservations, we have decided with the ambulance to move forward in such a way that nothing will change for the ambulance next year, the funding will start through the Health Insurance Fund, but the situation will remain the same organisationally. When a new ambulance competition arrives in 2019, the Health Insurance Fund takes it over as a 'full responsibility'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U122	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U123	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You started out so cynical, I couldn't keep listening to you. So maybe you already touched on the subject. You said that with this bill, the state will solve the problem of the sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund. Undoubtedly, it can only be guaranteed by taxpayers, whose number is decreasing. Please tell me how many percent of the unsustainable situation you are currently solving, given that healthcare is more expensive than other life, the population is ageing and the number of taxpayers is decreasing. How many percent of this really is the solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U124	Thank you. This percentage is relatively difficult to bring in, given the same aspects that you mentioned that affect it. Firstly, the same increase in the cost of healthcare, part of which is labour costs, but the other part is definitely faster than average innovation. Here, of course, is the question of what society expects of the health system. These expectations are constantly increasing and undoubtedly increasing these costs. By saying this in English, going ahead with the as-is-calculation, provided that we do not have important new, say, efficiency-enhancing opportunities that exist scientifically, for example, risk-based medicine, it is clear that with changes that generally increase the public contribution to healthcare by about half a percent, we will be able to get one-way over the next five years, or then we will be able to complete the unexplored treatment needs calculated on the basis of the current methodology. This does not mean that the order of treatment is lost, but that the uncovered treatment needs assessed on the basis of the current methodology are met. But the truth is, of course, that if we take the 30-to-40 perspective, we will see that the demographic trend continues to work against the new system. It's inevitable. The debate on major societal issues is certainly yet ahead of us in this context. However, if we are now in a situation where, despite budgets, the year-end has been negative, the structure of the Estonian patient population has been clearly changing, and this has changed in a more difficult direction, then, as of now, even without these changes, the issue is that we are unable to guarantee health care even at the current level. More money is needed for this, too, given these demographic changes. So, certainly, when we are talking about sustainability, it is not a question of us being able to guarantee it by means of these changes for the next 30 years. Certainly not, but it will for the next five to ten years, and I think it's a step forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U125	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have already touched on the fundamental transition of the ambulance to the financing of the health insurance fund for the first time, and later the health insurance fund will probably also provide this service. Basically, it's like double-driving an ambulance: the Health Insurance Fund and the Health Board. Aren't you afraid that the quality of the ambulance service might suffer? Have all these thoughts and dangers been adequately weighed down?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U127	Thank you. It's been weighed and we're still considering it. Of course, this is a relatively well-functioning system, which is why we do not want to cause the situation to deteriorate in any way. The Health Board will certainly continue to monitor the quality of health care, as it is currently doing, the quality of ambulance services will continue to be monitored by the Health Board. However, there is no reason why the organizational side should be dealt with by the Health Board and not by the Health Insurance Fund. Logic has been that because the ambulance service is not a health insurance service, i.e. it is also provided to uninsured persons, it should not be organised by a health insurance fund. But we know that a very large part of the services provided to uninsured persons are still essentially carried out through the health insurance fund. We have simply made provision to cover these costs, but in principle these services are organised through the sickness fund. One of the best examples here is the inevitable help of uninsured people. About EUR 10 million per year we pay from the state budget for the specific amount for which uninsured persons are provided with health care. Invoices move from health institution to health insurance fund and then the state pays the health insurance fund for these costs. As far as ambulances are concerned, the same logic could already work, but since we are implementing a wider change in funding, we think that the ambulance, as a basic component of health care, could also be organised by the Health Insurance Fund. On the positive side, it certainly allows for a more coherent view of emergency medicine than for ambulances and emergency medicine in health care facilities to work as a set, we can see them as a set. Today, they are organisationally fragmented and funded in so-called separate pots. I think there could be more of that kind of common view.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U128	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U129	Thank you. Good minister! Suppose, in the future, beyond the present time, for example in 2023 or 2025, the costs of these transferable activities are higher than the public budget allocation. Given that the draft law replaces health insurance services with health care services, I conclude that if such a situation arises, these services must be covered by the money paid by the health insurance, although, ideologically and logically, it should still be borne by the state. Were there any routes under consideration to keep these two financing pots and also the service pots at least to some extent separate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U130	Thank you. This is certainly also an important issue. Several health stakeholders have also pointed out that if we move these costs and they start to explode, these funds will come at the expense of other health costs, which will then leave less money in the same pot for other services. There are two answers. Firstly, when we look at the specific services that are being transferred, we see that there is basically one cost that is increasing relatively automatically, that is the cost of the ambulance's salary. It is still growing in such a way that, when a collective agreement is concluded and the health insurance fund calculates its money in it, it is actually necessary to find the means to raise the salaries of ambulance workers in the state budget. The draft state budget law for next year, which has come before you, also has this amount, I think it is EUR 3 million. Secondly, it has been pointed out that when ambulance costs go very, very high. The cost of ambulances is currently one of the best-controlled health care costs, given that it is a service obtained on the basis of a call for proposals at specific prices. There is certainly one place that is theoretically of concern and which has been brought to the attention. It is our fundamental choice to try to try, or not only to try, but to do so to integrate certain types of sick people more into the core of the Estonian health care system, in particular, I mean addicts and HIV-positive people. Until now, their services, as well as medicines, have been financed independently of the state budget, the health care system. It has, unfortunately, created this kind of isolation in the health system, so let's say that for this type of concern concerning HIV-positive and their services, treatment, etc., they are said to be those of the Institute for Health Development, let the Institute for Health Development deal with them, and that is not what'real health care should do'. Although a very large part of the services these people need are basic health services, be it psychiatric assistance, be it counseling or other services. So by bringing them together in the system, we can actually bring them in more real medicine, and we can also get a picture of these costs. Perhaps if you contribute more to prevention, for example, and are able to prevent new infections, this automatically means that the costs are lower in the healthcare sector. This creates a natural incentive for the health insurance fund to deal with prevention and control of viral diseases. Next year, EUR 15 million has been earmarked for HIV medicines, we are in the process of approving the HIV action plan, where we aim to reduce the number of new HIV cases from around 250 per year to less than 100 by 2025, or almost three times lower. That is our goal, that is where we want to move. But basically, you can never rule out that all of a sudden the trend is going in the opposite direction and the number of HIV positives is growing rapidly. If, for example, their number were to become double in Estonia, it would, of course, mean twice the cost of medicine, and by that amount, the cost of the sickness fund would certainly exceed the amount of the provision that we have foreseen for this purpose. Firstly, I believe and hope that we can ensure that this does not happen. Secondly, if the HIV epidemic becomes twice as problematic or more serious than it is now, it certainly requires very fundamental, large and much more radical action at national level, not just in the context of the health fund. Consequently, we believe that, in fact, the probability of this risk being realised is low, but in this particular part, this risk really exists. In other respects, I do not know, in the case of the unavoidable aid for tuberculosis medicines or uninsured persons, etc., there is certainly no doubt about a moderate increase in costs, but it is important to note that this additional income base, which we are currently planning for 2022, is 13% of the pension for non-working pensioners, also because of the increase in pensions, is increasing every year. Perhaps, in fact, this expansion of the revenue base does not simply mean that we have so much money for this year, but that the money that comes will gradually grow itself and actually cover the possible increase in these costs based on our analyses, unless the situation becomes completely epidemic in the context of HIV. He's already an epidemic, but I mean, if the epidemic gets much worse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U131	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U132	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I hope that you will correct your words about this impossible mission for society, as if you would solve it in terms of financing health sustainability. But the bill should also be corrected. Several ministers have, I say, said that you, too, have talked about the amount of the extra money for several years and presented it together with the costs that go along with it. [[Ossinovski shakes his head.]] Maybe you're not, but I'm sure the Minister of Finance has. How many percent of the budget will be added to the sickness fund free next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U133	Yeah, those amounts I've said, I said in my report. The cost-free, i.e. net, additional money next year will be EUR 34 million, and by 2022 it will grow to around 100 million. As a percentage of all the additional money, it is about half, in different years it comes differently. [[Question about the floor.]] Oh, how much is that extra money from the Health Insurance Fund budget? In total, about half a percent of GDP is added to health care, while today health expenditure is around 5%, or 4.9%, then by 2022 it will be about 5.5%. It is clear that we will be spending rather less than the European Union average in the big picture. The question is that we will be able to compensate for this amount over the next 5 to 10 years, depending on the various factors affecting health care, the demographic impact and contribute to shortening treatment queues in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U134	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! There have been a number of figures about this supplement to the health insurance fund. You've just explained that. However, some experts have asked that if we look at the next year, whether the extra money that the Health Insurance Fund receives means that hospitals have more medical managers paid for 100%, or if it compensates for the money initially, in the first wave, instead of those cases where hospitals are doing so-called overwork and are paid with a certain lower coefficient. Doesn't this guy who's in line now mean he's in line next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U136	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, this extra money is designed to shorten the order of special medical care. Of course, our aim, as well as the role of the Health Insurance Fund, is to have a tangible impact on real patients in terms of access to care. This is not an additional cash flow for hospitals to feel better, but really must be used in such a way that queues are actually shortened. This can be done in different ways, including by means of legislation which currently determines the length of the treatment order. But the different ways to ensure it, I can't say today because the Health Insurance Fund is working on this task. I hope that this picture will be clear by the end of November. In the first few years, my gut says, the Council does not decide which specialty and which hospital should receive exactly the extra money. It is a matter of medical expertise that money goes to those specialties where queues are time - critical, or waiting in line may make the patient's condition worse. However, one of the major concerns is the planned inpatient treatment in a situation where the number of inpatient cases, for both medical and financial reasons, has been very strongly drawn together in recent years, especially for financial reasons. In quite a number of institutions, most of the fixed work that is being done is already exceptional. This means that it is planned to be difficult to get to a specialist. Of course, the question you mentioned is important. We certainly do not want to create a situation where hospitals receive more money for the same amount of work. The task is to actually shorten the queues. This is also one of the great expectations of the new head of the Health Insurance Fund, not only for me, but for the entire Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U137	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U138	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have this question, I think it's a little bit of a reflection. We're talking about the responsibilities of the Health Insurance Fund. The Health Insurance Fund can use and dispose of health insurance funds. You here before, I understand, you said that these changes will be made to ensure the sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund, that there will be more money for the Health Insurance Fund, and that will be guaranteed from the state budget. But I understand that the state budget itself is not sustainable, the state budget itself is negative, and there will be nothing more in the coming years. I have a question specifically about the Health Insurance Fund. If you look at the duties of the Health Insurance Fund, are you still convinced that it is also right to transfer the care tasks of the uninsured? If the Health Board wishes to provide ambulance services, it is possible to conclude an administrative contract for this purpose, but would it also be possible to transfer a financial obligation? After all, the health insurance fund's job is to treat people with health insurance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U139	Thank you. This is, to some extent, a philosophical debate. This is what my colleague, Mr Lauri, and I, in the Committee on Social Affairs, have been holding quite fruitfully and certainly will continue to do so. This 'principle' issue is undoubtedly important in order to clarify this. But in a purely organisational way, we are already organising the same assistance for uninsured persons through the Health Insurance Fund. Just because of this wall built between two systems, we're financing it from the state budget, but basically, the whole arrangement goes through the sickness fund anyway. In my opinion, the main question is how we can ensure the most effective arrangements, how we can best guarantee the best possible medical care for the people of Estonia. Of course, this is one of the risks I told Maris Lauri about in response. It is that, when we give these additional tasks to the Health Insurance Fund, we must not create a situation where these new tasks are going to 'eat' the money from the existing basic services of the Health Insurance Fund. This is definitely the thing we've been working for, we've analyzed it, and we don't see the risk. But we will certainly be discussing the circumstances surrounding the transfer of services both over the coming months and over the years, given that we have taken a relatively calm pace in order to agree precisely on this arrangement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U140	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question comes from your answer. You're referring to the fact that specialized medical care is going to get more money. In fact, what is going on in 2020 or 2021 is, in a sense, fiction, that money may not get there. You cannot tell us today what the economic situation of the Republic of Estonia will actually be and whether we can put more money in it. But we've been talking about the first level all along. I am interested in what proportions are really in this new budget. When you said that 34 million is going to be added to specialist medical care, what is the primary rate and what exactly is the primary level of this money going to? We know that strategically, strengthening the primary level should actually alleviate the budgetary pressure of this second stage, i.e. specialist medical care, to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U142	Yeah, of course. Firstly, we will, of course, manage health on the basis of the best available forecasts. If the Estonian economy gets worse, this naturally means that less income will be received by the health insurance fund, especially not from the pensioner's allowance or from pensioners, because it is, if the law is passed, fixed by law, but primarily because of labour taxes. As we know, at the beginning of the economic crisis, the income of the Health Insurance Fund fell in a crash because labour taxes fell away and employment figures deteriorated. In this sense, it is, of course, right that the Health Insurance Fund, together with its supervisory board and its management, can make these decisions sovereignly on the basis of the law. The aim and priority of the current government and mine is to resolve the issue of queues as a matter of priority. But the following governments, ministers and councils can, of course, make these decisions within the limits of the law on the basis of their best knowledge and discretion. As far as the primary level is concerned, we have agreed politically, and we have also given this message to the Health Insurance Fund, that our priority objective for this additional money is to improve access to specialist medical care. This money, which comes from an improvement in the income of social tax, and which is also significant, goes to the availability of existing services and to the improvement of quality. Of course, this is the money that will be paid for the salary increase agreed in the collective agreement, and that is the money that will also cover the priority development at first level. We can say that this year the primary level has received a priority increase in funding, by memory of about 10%, while, for example, specialist medical care has received only a few percent increase. This will certainly continue, given that the steps of first-level reinforcement are being taken, health centres will be built. We're expecting more staff at first level, specialists who should come to it. This undoubtedly means that the primary level is also a priority in terms of financing growth in the coming years. However, this is not covered by this additional money, as we see it, but is due to other budgetary improvements, which will also be quite significant in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U143	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U144	Thank you. Good minister! Let me ask you a little bit more generally. I know that this is a very fundamental change in the design of the Health Insurance Fund and of the health insurance system in general, and the next draft also concerns this issue. If it is such a fundamental change, how can it be that the coalition avoids a plan for its development? The intention to develop is where these effects should actually be assessed. You yourself said that we will continue to look and analyse whether this could be done on the basis of an administrative contract or not. Have employers and trade unions agreed on this draft and has it been coordinated by the Health Insurance Board? How do you come to this hall if there is no intention to develop this bill? I also did not find the coordination of the Confederation of Employers or Trade Unions, even though they are the ones who decide on the health insurance money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U145	I already answered that question at the beginning of the round. Indeed, there is no plan to develop this draft, because fundamental choices in the context of funding have already been considered over the last ten years, and this has been the case for international professionals! As well as Estonian specialists. Certain health management issues concerning whether the service has been funded here or there, yes, have not been addressed in a separate analysis. We are also discussing them in cooperation with service providers in order to reach a fundamental agreement on how best to organise them in this way. [[Shout from the hall.]] The bill is agreed, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U146	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We were always talking about the financial side, but are there any changes planned to be made to hospitals' own organisations in addition to these major reorganisations? I mean south-eastern Estonia, Valga, Võru and Põlva hospitals, either change in their functions, transfer to each other or whatever.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U148	Thank you very much. This is now not directly related to this bill. In the context of the hospitals in South Estonia, we are moving forward with the process of networking, in order to ensure that hospitals in the higher stages (in the context of South Estonia it is the University of Tartu Hospital) take greater responsibility for the service provided in county hospitals in the regions. This process has already been carried out in South-Estonian Hospital or Võru and Valga Hospital. Tomorrow, by the way, there will be a point in the discussion in the government, which will give the University of Tartu Hospital the authority to take on the membership of the clinic in Põlva Hospital. This brings this networking process to an end. The question then is how the county hospital, in cooperation with the higher-level hospital, will organise the availability of specialist medical care in the best way for the patient.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U149	Minister, there are no further questions for you. The Chairman of the Social Committee, Helmen Kütt, will present the presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U150	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the amendment of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act and the related amendment of other laws Act 512 at its meeting on 2 October. Among the members of the Commission, Monika Haukanõm, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev, Maris Lauri, Yoko Alender, who took part in the meeting as an alternate member of Liina Kersna, Tiina Kangro, Jüri Jaanson, Dmitri Dmitriev and Head of the meeting, Helmen Küttt. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, Kaija Kasekamp, Adviser to the Health System Development Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Helen Berk, Adviser to the Pharmaceutical Department, were invited. The Minister gave a very comprehensive overview of the draft in this Chamber today, and he gave a very comprehensive overview of it in the Commission. There were undoubtedly many questions in the Commission. That's where I'll stop and give you answers. First of all, the question of who are the beneficiaries of the pension for which the State will cover the financial part. At first, it was said that they did not include the beneficiaries of early retirement, so that they did not go to that choice. To date, we have received a clear reply from the Ministry that the calculation is still based on all recipients of public retirement pension under § 5 (1) of the State Pension Insurance Act, including early retirement recipients, and on age under § 4. There was also the question of how many people we have in the first place. There are nearly 6,000 people in retirement and about 1,200 people in national pension due to their age. The question was also asked about the health fund's reserves and precisely the same budget volume of 5.4%. The explanation provided by the Minister in this Chamber today was very thorough. The Commission also explained that this 5.4% has been calculated together with the Ministry of Finance and is essentially as large as the present 6%. There was a question of reimbursement of the costs of different types of treatment, such as infertility treatment, and precisely of the abolition of the limitation on the reimbursement of three procedures. The answer was that earlier, from the fourth procedure, covered the costs of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but all the costs of the procedures were covered, just earlier covered three procedures for the costs of health insurance and the rest for the Ministry of Social Affairs. Questions were also asked about health insurance for nuns and monks. The Minister explained that there are 80 people in Estonia for whom the name 'nun' or'munk' can be used. If, for example, they move to a monastery abroad, their health insurance will end one month after leaving the monastery. The monastery must inform the sickness fund of the person's departure from the convent within 10 calendar days of the date of departure. There were many questions about development costs and also the costs of promoting prevention. Here a detailed explanation was given of what is then stated in the Public Health Act, based on the concept of promotion. As far as development is concerned, it was sought to approach it from the view of health services, i.e. to exclude the costs that the list of health services has already paid for the cost of covering the service. Questions were also asked about non-working pensioners. They asked what would happen if the number of pensioners not in employment was to increase sharply. Here too, the Minister replied that the Ministry of Finance had drawn attention to this, and the proposal was to take account of the allocation as an annual average, not every month, including in order to make it easier for the Health Insurance Fund to forecast revenues and easier in terms of the state budget. It was a question of replacement fees for family doctors. The answer was above all that family doctors have also applied for replacement fees for long-term replacement, but due to budgetary constraints, the Health Board has prioritised the payment of replacement fees, in particular for those lists for which no family doctor has been found by competition. There was also a question of a long-term perspective. The Minister replied that the principle of this bill, i.e. the annual increase in the percentage of non-working pensioners, would not solve the shortage of resources in the health care of the entire Estonian state, but it would still provide the opportunity to provide the current volume and quality of service for five to ten years, while shortening treatment queues. The question was asked that in the past there has been a possibility that some of the funds will come from local government resources. This is true because, so far, even in the case of the treatment of uninsured persons, municipalities have often issued so-called "guarantee letters', under which a person living in that municipality and not insured has received non-state-funded emergency medical care. Finally, it was decided (all the decisions that I am now going to read were made by consensus) to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 11 October, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be 10 working days, namely 25 October at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U151	The round of questions will be opened by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U152	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! It was still not clear from the Minister's answers to the questions why this issue had to be rushed so quickly that there was no time left for the intention to develop, nor did it become clear whether employers had been involved in this process. Was the meeting of the Commission clear here, or is it just your experience that you know it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U153	Thank you for your question. The Commission raised this issue as a question. The Minister replied to this in the same way as today in this Chamber that, for a long time, over 10 years, there is a certain problem that the funds of the Health Insurance Fund do not guarantee the same level of service, and if this does not happen immediately, then very soon, and there is a need to find additional resources. Since 2005, a number of foreign experts have pointed out, but also in the national system, analyses and studies have shown that additional resources are needed. That was why there is no plan for development. That was the explanation given in the Commission. As far as the involvement of employers and employees is concerned, since the Social Affairs Committee has started this procedure very early, we will certainly be working on this issue at the next Commission meetings, and we will also learn their opinion. That was not the question in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U154	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri will be the first to speak on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U155	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's just be honest and just talk about what we're dealing with. It is a draft which, on the one hand, reorganises the provision of healthcare and, on the other hand, makes quite fundamental changes in funding, the principles of using money and, among other things, dilutes the health insurance system. Perhaps it is appropriate to restructure services; this must certainly be discussed. Intuitively, we can say that in one aspect of resource use and probably in other things, we can really achieve a better result, but funding still raises a lot of questions. I have already pointed out in my question that there is a tendency to talk about the fact that the state budget allocation is like the amount paid for pensioners. Pensioners continue to be persons treated as insured, and there is no so-called health insurance contribution for pensioners. This makes it very clear that there are political reasons for using words, that they are spoken in such a way that they sound attractive and good. Let's be honest. This is a state budget provision and there is a principle that then equals certain things. The Minister acknowledged the risks involved in mixing the two sources of financing. But he said they were small. I'm afraid these risks are much higher than we're seeing right now. The Minister also pointed out that we have been talking in Estonia for ten years about the fact that financing the health insurance fund is not sustainable. Ten years of discussion at ministerial level or in newspapers does not mean that society or the Riigikogu has discussed these matters. This draft is closely linked to the state budget, which the government will certainly wish to adopt during this year. This means that very important issues should also be discussed very quickly in the Riigikogu and in the Committee on Social Affairs. I'm afraid we won't have time for any substantive discussions. All the more so as we do not receive any information or truthful or thorough objections as to why other sources or methods of financing are not appropriate. I do not understand why these two pots should not be kept separate even within the so-called sickness fund, and clearly lay down limits for the use of the state budget allocation for such or such purposes and, in certain cases, may be used for health insurance, for example. Why is it not clearly stated that the money received from health insurance is only used for health insurance? Why is there no substantive debate, the reasons why things are done in this way? Could it be why the services could not be transferred through management contracts? I do not understand this, and I am afraid that in the remaining time we will not have the opportunity to have a substantive debate. However, I do hope that this will be considered and will not go on with this draft on the rabbinal. I think that the principle of health insurance, which was once adopted in Estonia in the 1990s, had clear reasons, because it balances different interests in the best way. Then there were thorough discussions. But now it is decided to dilute it somewhere behind the doors and obviously to abandon it, because the word'medical insurance' is consistently raised out of the drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U156	Please, Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U157	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but I pressed the wrong button! I could have talked about it, but then I thought I'd come here anyway. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Social Affairs who came to the extraordinary Social Affairs Committee meeting and discussed this issue during the week without sitting. The subject is very complex; there are many questions here, as well as the problems that need to be decided, on which we were looking for solutions. I am very pleased that today this debate has reached the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and in the last ten years it has not arrived here. It has probably been discussed at the level of ministries, government offices, but today it is in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. We are the ones who have to seriously consider and discuss, because a situation where treatment queues can be extended and the quality and service level of treatment can fall very much, it is known that this will happen with the current financing model, can not be acceptable to anyone. That is why I very much hope that, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we will be able to process this draft thoroughly and listen to the interest groups as well. I very much hope that there will be even more answers to the questions at second reading in this Chamber as well. In any case, the Social Democrats support the principle that more money is needed for health insurance and health care. I am particularly pleased that, when there was the threat of a medical strike and there was a meeting in the conference room where the Social Affairs Committee heard from the parties, both doctors and nurses' associations, health professionals pointed out that this was not the case, otherwise the essential health care services for people will no longer be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U158	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 512. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the 512 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U159	Fourth item: First reading of draft Act 514 amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related other laws. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U160	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U161	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to introduce you to this bill as well. The main objective of the proposal is to ensure better access to prescription medicines and to reduce the excessive cost of medicines for certain groups of patients. The availability of medicines is often one of the most important problems for older people and chronically ill people, due to the high self-participation of medicines compared to people's income. Effective, safe, high-quality and reasonably used medicines are known to help resolve many health problems by improving quality of life, avoiding or reducing incapacity for work, reducing disease-related mortality and saving hospital care costs. However, medicines are not always available to everyone. According to WHO, the cost of medicines is the most important source of household ownership for patients, which in certain situations can lead to catastrophic health costs, as they are called, or even to health-related poverty. In Estonia, the proportion of patients' own contribution to health care expenditure is decreasing. In 2015, it was more precisely 23% of the total costs and the maximum amount set in our own population health development plan is 25%, which should not be exceeded. The World Health Organisation considers that an assessment of the effectiveness of its own contribution policy should be carried out if its own contribution represents more than 15% of the total cost of health care, in order to exclude a situation where it imposes a high financial burden on people or proves to be a constraint on them in obtaining the assistance they need. This WHO recommendation means that, in the case of an own contribution burden of over 15% of health expenditure, countries should create and implement specific mitigation measures for certain target groups in order to ensure that their healthcare costs do not exceed a reasonable limit that will prevent access to healthcare. As a result, when I came into office, we approached this 25%, we have seen in the Ministry of Social Affairs that the burden of ownership could be reduced in the coming years. And then you could also look at how to do this in the most sensible and efficient way, how to reallocate it more fairly to protect vulnerable groups from excessive costs. A comprehensive analysis of the WHO's own contribution in 2014 concluded that households with lower incomes in Estonia spend relatively more on medicines than wealthier households who spend more on dental care, for example. The wealthier the household is, the more it spends on outpatient specialist care, paid visits and medical supplies, and the less it spends on medicines. If we look at the health costs of the two poorest quintiles, they will be spending three quarters, or even more on medicines. So most of the cost of the poorer population goes to medicines and the more wealthy people are, the more they can afford other health services, especially dental care, medical equipment and pay-per-views. It's obvious in itself that this is the case. Therefore, we have been looking for the most effective way to reduce, precisely, the self-participation burden of people with lower incomes in the case of medicines. Consequently, these proposals have also been made. If, in general, we have the principle that we do not pay poverty-based benefits in terms of health care in the national system, they can be paid by the municipality, but the state does not do so, then we have now looked at which target groups have the highest costs and tried to limit these highest costs. We know that in recent years, although the impact of buying medicines on health care costs has started to decrease gradually, a third of patients still fail to realise prescriptions, and about half of them have an economic reason for this, i.e. lack of money. Among these vulnerable groups, of course, there are pensioners, as well as chronic patients, whose prescriptions are simply very high. If we look at the burden of participation as a whole, this 23% is distributed as health care costs in Estonia in this way: about 1/3 is dental care and about 40% is prescription medicines and over-the-counter medicines. In other words, dental care and prescription medicines make up approximately 3/4 of their own in healthcare, so the largest part. In order to improve the situation, we have done two things. The first is valid from 1 July of this year, and this is an adult dental benefit. We reduce people's own participation in dental care: adults pay up to EUR 30 per year and the elderly and some other groups up to EUR 85 per year. The next step is drugs, specifically prescription drugs. We want to reduce the financial burden on people who are in great need of prescription medicines and whose annual costs for prescription medicines are high. According to the draft, the Health Insurance Fund reimburses 50% of the cost of the subsidised medicines between EUR 100 and 300 and 90% of the cost of the subsidised medicines from EUR 300. The benefit will automatically work in the pharmacy, i.e. via digital prescription. A person does not have to submit an application, but, if he has paid more than EUR 100 for prescription medicines on the list of preferential medicines during the year, he will automatically start receiving additional compensation for the purchase of each of the following medicines or the same medicines. With a view to simplifying the compensation system and harmonising the burden of self-participation, a single prescription fee will also be introduced. We now have two fees, both of which have been in force since 2002: one is EUR 1.27 and the other is EUR 3.19. Instead, we will create a single prescription fee of 2.5 euros. In total, we have over 100,000 people who spend more than EUR 100 a year on prescription medicines, with 15,000 of them spending more than EUR 300 on prescription medicines. The amendment aims to reduce the cost of prescription medicines for those who spend a lot of time. The logic of the system is that the more a person spends on prescription medicines, the more advantage he receives from the state. This means that when this system comes into force, people who spend more than 300 euros a year on prescription medicines will almost not be left. If there were 15,000 last year, there would be less than 100 when the new system came into force. In addition, the same draft introduces some organisational changes. One is the transfer of the organisational tasks related to the list of preferential medicines to the Health Insurance Fund from 1 January 2018. In accordance with the current procedure, the Marketing Authorisation Holder will submit an application for preferential medicines to the Ministry of Social Affairs. At the Ministry of Social Affairs, the application will be examined by asking for the opinion of the Agency, the Health Insurance Fund, the relevant doctors and the Committee on Medicinal Products. The application for the benefit is dealt with by a decree of the Minister of Social Affairs, in this case the Minister of Health and Labour. The list of preferential medicinal products shall be amended regularly on a quarterly basis, at the same time as the price caps are amended on 1 January, 1 April, 1 July and 1 October. With the inclusion of preferential medicines, the Ministry of Social Affairs will also enter into an agreement with the Marketing Authorisation Holder setting out the price, the obligation to continue marketing, the duration of the agreement, the principles of renewal and amendment of the agreement and any other conditions and obligations. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs, by decree of the Minister, sets maximum prices for a group of medicinal products of the same active substance and mode of administration included in the list of preferential medicines. When transferring the tasks related to preferential medicines, which we want to do with this draft, the Health Insurance Fund will be involved in concluding and amending the price agreements for preferential medicines, calculating the maximum prices for preferential medicines, processing applications for preferential medicines and also coordinating the work of the Committee on Medicinal Products. The Ministry of Social Affairs' workload is significantly reduced when implementing activities related to preferential medicines are transferred. More can be focused on sector-related policy and legislation, as implementation activities, i.e. price negotiations and price agreements, no longer have to be directly dealt with. The position of the Health Insurance Fund will also be strengthened. In addition, the planning and management of health insurance budgets has been better controlled, as the health insurance fund can control the possibility of overspending itself on an ongoing basis. At the moment, medicines are funded by the Health Insurance Fund, but they are listed by the Ministry, i.e. all this work is done by the Ministry. Third, the transfer of the organisational tasks related to the procurement of medicinal products to the Health Insurance Fund from 1 January 2019. Amendments to the Infectious Disease Prevention and Control Act entrust the Health Insurance Fund with the organisational tasks associated with the procurement of medicinal products. According to the current procedures, the Ministry of Social Affairs procures ARV medicines, i.e. HIV medicines, medicines for tuberculosis and vaccines, immunoglobulins and antitoxins under the current immunisation programme. The procurement of medicines and immune products is financed from the state budget through the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, as mentioned in the previous draft, we also want to hand it over to the Health Insurance Fund and then to the respective procurement tasks. The tasks related to the payment of medical benefits and the list of preferential medicines are intended to be transferred to the Health Insurance Fund from 1 January 2018 to the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. The tasks related to the procurement of medicines are planned to be transferred to the Health Insurance Fund one year later, i.e. from 1 January 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U162	Krista Aru puts the first question on this agenda. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I fully agree with you that buying medicines for a household with a lower income can be a major problem and that these medicines can sometimes not be bought out. Why, however, did you not consider the need-based support, but you are going on top of support for medicines with an annual fee of over EUR 100? Is this really the right approach? A person doesn't even have to submit a statement, I understand, but he gets that compensation automatically. 'Why? 'is a key issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U164	Thank you. As I said, in the national health system, we do not basically pay the need-based support, because the health system simply does not appreciate it, poverty is a social problem, its data is elsewhere. It is, of course, possible to approach here in the way we approach income support, for example, and as we have done with needs-based child support, i.e. people can go to a local government institution and prove that they are poor, and then receive additional support. The concern is that its administration is quite costly for the state, and it is also uncomfortable for the people, i.e. to start looking at individually who is entitled to support and who does not have this right. This is also generally contrary to the principle of solidarity in the health system. It has indeed been asked why people who receive, for example, four average salaries should even receive some sort of prescription benefit. They can go to the pharmacy and pay the price. Logic has been that since those people who receive four average salaries also pay a health insurance tax, which they themselves do not take advantage of, but actually jointly and severally support other people who are usually older and sicker, it would be unfair for them to be reduced as well. Perhaps benefits should be provided equally and as a result of what human health needs are, not as a result of how much the system has been paid in. That's the first reason. The second reason is simpler and certain in conjunction with the first, its administration obligation. We have seen, as I said, that in the two lowest income quintiles, the cost of medicines accounts for 75 to 80% of the total cost of health care. Most of those who spend more than 100 euros a year on medicines are actually the same people who are in first and second quintile. In the vast majority, they are elderly or working-age, but people with reduced or absent capacity to work who are largely at risk of poverty. Our analysis says that there is, in fact, no risk that we will be massively supporting those who do not need support with this support. Perhaps, in principle, most of it still goes into operation, one can say, in the form of poverty support. But yes, it is also not excluded that some people who are highly paid but receive, for example, 20 to 30 prescriptions per year may receive some kind of discount. The logic here is that, since it has contributed to this system in proportion to its higher income, it is also entitled to this benefit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U165	Thank you. Good minister! I ask the following questions because the quality of this explanatory statement is one of the worst I have ever seen. It's very deficient. First of all, I want to ask why no additional medical benefits are used. I would like to understand how many people there are who don't want to, who don't know and who really can't buy. And the second question concerns which options were considered in the context of this change in the supplementary medical benefit regime.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U166	Thank you. We're talking about a valid supplementary medical benefit, I understand. Indeed, there is currently a system of supplementary reimbursement for medicinal products with different limits. The name is the same, maybe it should have been changed for the sake of clarity, but the content is quite different. The truth is that it is still possible to obtain compensation by spending more than a certain rate. Amounts: from EUR 300 to EUR 500 it is 50%, from EUR 500 to 90%. If you compare it with that, you could say it's a similar system, we're just bringing the limit down. But there are two important changes. One is the automaticity that I'm talking about right now. The second is that the current supplementary medical benefit does not include a prescription fee in its calculation base. In any case, you may have to pay your prescription fee, no matter how many recipes you have, and in terms of additional medical benefits, you can actually compensate for the part between the prescription fee and the marginal price. In the new system, we also introduce a prescription fee as the basis for the calculation, and that is why it is going to affect a lot more people. At present, it is estimated to affect 8500 people or estimated to affect them, but only 2500 will be taken out of this support. That's why we're jumping from 8500 to over 100,000, we're changing the basis of accounting in a very important part. The answer to the question of why no additional medical benefit has been used is complex. One reason is certainly ignorance: quite a lot of people do not know that they are entitled to it at all. The other part of the population does not know whether they have spent so much or not, because the basis for the calculation is complicated. You can't just watch the check on what your money is. You'll have to take out the excess price and the recipe fee, and if there's a percentage discount, that too. Only then will you get the amount that is the basis for the calculation. To be honest, it's almost impossible to do that. Many people, even if they spend a lot, do not know whether they actually qualify for support or do not qualify. The third part of the case is the application process itself. One concrete example is Viljandi, where the Health Insurance Fund does not have a regional department. People have come to the county government with their applications for supplementary medical benefits and asked me where I'm sending them, that I don't know what to do with them, maybe you can pass them on to the health insurance fund. And then the health insurance fund signed a contract with the county government for this particular example, so that the county government would forward these applications to the health insurance fund. This procedure is clumsy and the awareness is low. The result is that very many people who have the right to use the support do not use it. We have not carried out a scientific analysis of the number of people in this group, 8500, who earn wages above average or above a few averages, i.e. who could themselves bear those costs, who would not apply for support, because they do not want this help from the state. Probably some. But the general analysis says that, in most cases, the cost of prescription medicines is excessive, the cost of medicines is even high for chronic patients who have generally reduced their ability to work, or for the elderly, for whom we know that they belong to another quintile in terms of their income.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U167	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U168	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In the case of our current government, as a chorus, there seems to be a recurring trend towards things that have been thought about even for ten years, and at the end, it is going to be quick. But thanks to the good Social Affairs Committee, this bill is in front of us today. There are pharmacists complaining about rushing, I found here in the appendix to the explanatory statement. The Association of Pharmacists says they may not be ready by 1 January. Are they gonna be ready?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U169	Thank you very much. It is true that the legislative plan of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been very close due to the ministry's ambition in this area. Health is currently subject to a large number of fundamental changes and drafts in many areas, starting with public health and ending with health systems and medicines. Let's just say that we've been behind schedule at the speed of the procedure. Regrettably, we also came to the government with these drafts a few weeks later, if we wanted to. This is, of course, our problem, and we are certainly asking the Riigikogu to apologise for not having all the seats until the end and in the best way presented in the explanatory memorandum. As far as the implementation of this draft and the pharmacists are concerned, it is true that there was concern during the coordination of the draft as to whether it would be ready so quickly. We've arranged different meetings and another meeting, either just happened or is about to take place. The current assurance and knowledge is that it will be completed. The state's preparedness will be ensured by the Health Insurance Fund by 1 January so that people's own participation burden can be automatically calculated at the digital prescription centre. This also requires some information technology change in pharmacies so that they can immediately grant a discount on the basis of the prescription information and know how the settlement is done. But basically, the system of reimbursement of medicines is not a new one; it already works; the settlement between the health insurance fund and pharmacies is ongoing. So the system itself is not new, but a little bit of development is needed there. As the time for reply is not limited, one more comment on Krista Aru's earlier question in relation to who and how. We're in the middle of an analysis. Estonia is in a unique situation: we can implement it with this bill, we do not yet offer it, but we are working on it, a personalised ownership burden in the health care system as a whole. We're doing one here right now, i.e. we're looking at how much a person spends on prescription drugs. But at the same time, a person pays visit fees, maybe also for inpatient nursing care, which is about 10% of his/her own participation, dental care, etc. Given our IT capability and the fact that we have all the information together, we can actually assess the individual's own contribution burden very accurately. An analysis of how this could be implemented is currently underway. The analysis should be completed by the spring of next year if my memory is not deceived, and it will be possible to discuss in more detail whether and how it makes sense to put on the so-called ceiling or dome of own participation in order for it to be fair. And when we get to the point where we can assess the burden of self-participation in the whole system by also adding data from the tax administration on people's incomes and trying to look at everything much more accurately to solve this social problem, when we have this whole view, I will not rule out that this could be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U170	Please, Krista Aru, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! Now, if I read it right here, those medicines that the doctor has prescribed but are not on the list of preferential medicines will be excluded from the supplementary medical benefit. What logic has been applied here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U172	This is a sensitive issue, the availability of innovative medicines. Logic is that according to the current system, the Health Insurance Fund reimburses expenditure on medicinal products for which the pharmaceutical company has applied for marketing and benefit in Estonia and for which experts have assessed the cost-effectiveness. Cost-effectiveness means, on the one hand, medical effectiveness and, on the other hand, that the price is proportionate to the potential, medium or scientifically assessed health effects of medicinal products. Such medicinal products are included in the list of preferential medicinal products and the country promotes their spread with percentages, i.e. 50, 75, 90 or 100. Moreover, in the case of preferential medicines, which make up the majority of all medicines that people consume, there is additional compensation for those who spend too much on these medicines. This system does not apply to medicinal products that have not passed this'reimbursement filter'. This does not mean that they are not going through it, but that this process is still taking time: assessing cost-effectiveness, coming up with new science, selling down prices or going down for other reasons. Then these medicines can also reach the list of preferential medicines. It can be said that only those on the list of preferential medicines are compensated because the state should not encourage medicines that are not effective. These medicines are also available on the market and have a marketing authorisation, but either they are either essentially ineffective or they are only effective for a very narrow number of patients. It is true that this is a very acute, topical and serious problem in society that certain medicines, for which we know that they are a little bit, but still help patients, have not passed through this filter. Because the manufacturer wants to get too high a price from us, which often happens, or because their medical evidence or efficiency is still thin. These are new medicines for which there is simply not enough clinical research. In these cases, people will surely have a legitimate question as to why the doctor will prescribe them, but the state will not compensate. Every year, new medicines come to the market in this way, more and more recent, more modern and more expensive, but of course we have not been able to take all of the promotional medicines on the list. And what we can deny here, given the amounts we spend on our health care, of total economic output, will not be able to take everyone in the future. You could also say that this is a growing problem. The countries far, far more prosperous than we are are, too, no longer able to list all medicines on the list of preferential medicines. The first so-called shock alarm was the cure for hepatitis C, which created bubbles here in Estonia as well. The Health Insurance Fund budget went over the border last year for this particular medicine. 13 million euros were spent more because there were so many patients who experienced this disease. With the same medicine, for the first time, many European countries have faced a situation, unlike many others, with an extremely effective medicine, with a recovery rate of 90 and above, where they have not been able to make it available to all patients because of the price. In Estonia, we are used to it. We bring a new medicine to the market and say that it only extends to a particular target group in order to save costs. With regard to the same hepatitis C medicine, for example, my regulation states that it should only be prescribed to patients with certain levels of hepatic fibrosis. But in many European countries, for the first time, there was a situation where the number of patients allowed to take this medicine had to be limited, simply to keep the costs under control. It's a global problem. In cancer care, the average price of new drugs has risen in the last 20 to 25 years, and I don't want to lie now, but in the order of $100 to $10,000 a month. There has also been a slight improvement in survival. Yeah, these drugs are better and more specifically targeted, but what's happening at the expense is completely astronomical. As a result, pharmaceutical companies themselves, who often earn the highest margins in the world more than banks and the oil industry, have been concerned about what the future looks like. The future will certainly be more specifically targeted medicines, the development of which is much more expensive, but which extend to a much smaller number of patients. How, then, can they be taken in the sense of a public funding scheme? Currently, "innovative cost sharing schemes" are being tested, including in Estonia. In principle, when, for example, a new medicinal product enters the market, the manufacturer will initially pay for it to prove to the State that it is working, and only after it is working will the State take over. But these developments are still continuing across Europe. In the field of health, one major problem or serious issue is the availability of medicines in a small country like Estonia, the position of our negotiations in order to get these medicines on our market at a reasonable price. If, for example, we look at Germany, where more than 80 million people live and where the share of health costs is significantly higher than ours, then there is a strong interest for the pharmaceutical company to become a national incentive system. This is a very, very large market where very large money is moving. In the case of Estonia, very many medicines extend to five to ten patients. A couple of weeks ago, I signed a price agreement with five patients on an eye medicine. In terms of cost, the forecast is half a million. This has a direct impact on our negotiating position. If we went and said that the price was too high, we would be willing to pay twice the lower price, it would be said that you know that this market is not of great interest to us because it is just so small. This is why many countries in Europe, especially smaller countries, are developing joint procurement of medicines. The goal is to agree and to get together to strengthen our position. The problem is that, at EU level, it would make sense for the European Union to jointly negotiate, when applying for a generally accepted marketing authorisation issued by the Agency, what is the price of medicines for European societies? On the one hand, because the large countries have no interest in such an agreement, because there are a great many blind and opaque funding schemes in this business that are suitable for countries when they get good deals and, on the other, because the European Union does not have competence in this area. As a result, we are fighting several things at once. On the one hand, we need to ensure that innovative medicines come into the Estonian market at all, and on the other hand, we can only take them into the list of benefits if they have an acceptable price, so that the situation is difficult.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U173	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U174	Thank you. Good minister! I would like to ask why the 100 euros chosen for this border, not for example 150 euros. When I look at the explanatory statement, there's a suspicious feeling that it's just so I can give more people support. This cost would be less than 40,000 people for EUR 150, but for EUR 100 it is 125000 people. Why 100 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U175	Of course, there may rightly be different views here. I think, first of all, that EUR 100 for prescription medicines is only one cost. There will be over-the-counter medicines and visit fees, and there may be inpatient nursing care, bed-days. 100 euros per year is actually a lot to pay for prescription medicines. From this amount, we will help to ensure that people's costs for prescription medicines do not go too far over this amount. They still go, but they don't go too much. Some people might think it's not much. It is certainly not 100 euros a year for some households, but the majority of Estonian consumers of prescription medicines have a very large amount of 100 euros a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U176	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! My question is motivated by Krista Aru's question. Please explain: if your doctor prescribes a non-preferential medicine that has a low effect, does this mean that there is no alternative? In short, is there a better-for-profit medicine to be offered, or what are the cases you described? I am trying to understand why a low-impact non-preferential drug should be prescribed, if there is an alternative, a better-acting medicine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U178	I'm not a doctor, so I really don't know how to comment on all the cases. But, as a rule, these are situations where existing treatments in both hospital and pharmaceutical terms have not produced the desired results. Often it is a chronic illness that has not yet been cured, and then there are some medicines that can be tried to treat it. The hepatitis C medicine is an example where it is actually possible to heal and not simply reduce symptoms. This mainly concerns cancer treatment. If different treatments, including medications, have not worked out, the disease is not giving in, then it is possible to stop treatment with the patient's agreement. In this case, it is known as terminal patients. But it is also possible to tell them that a new medicine has entered the market, which the Estonian country does not have on the list of preferential medicines. This medicine is available and preliminary studies suggest that it can help them. Maybe it won't, but we could try it. And then there's a person's choice whether or not to do it. It is clear that the price of these medicines is insane, and in this context we must be absolutely grateful that Estonia has a non-profit association Gifted Life, who gives this straw in such cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U179	Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. The Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U180	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft Act 514 amending the Health Insurance Act and related other laws at its meeting on 2 October. Among the members of the Commission were Monika Haukanõm, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev, Maris Lauri, Yoko Alender Liina Kersna as alternate members, Tiina Kangro, Jüri Jaanson, Dmitri Dmitriev and Helmen Kütt. The minister gave an overview as comprehensive as today in this Chamber. I will not stop at it again, and I will point out the questions that arose in the Commission, in addition to those that sounded in this Chamber today. Thanks to the attention of a good colleague and Commissioner Maris Lauri, a misleading finger was corrected in the explanatory memorandum. In particular, point 5 of the explanatory memorandum states that the draft is not related to European Union law. However, point 1.3 of the same explanatory memorandum states that the draft relates to a Council Directive and a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council. Helen Berk explained that this was a human mistake, and so far these changes have been made in the explanatory memorandum. Questions were also asked about the development of information systems. To clarify, Helen Berk, who had me and the Minister explaining the draft, replied that the development of information systems would cost EUR 50000, which would be covered by the Health Insurance Fund's budget. Jüri Jaanson pointed out a very good idea that the Ministry promised to seriously consider and take into account the new IT developments of the Health Insurance Fund. People do not really know how much healthcare they receive, including, of course, medical bills. So it would make sense to show on the accounts how much the state is holding and how much the state is paying for the patient. The Minister explained that there is information on the accounts paid by the Health Insurance Fund on the patient portal and that there is also a system in place for people to receive further information on their e-mail address when the Health Insurance Fund has paid for them. Tiina Kangro strongly supported the same idea and suggested that the bill should be more detailed and more understandable to people. This would also prevent any possible scams where double bills may have been presented behind people's back. Pharmacies were also the question, i.e. whether they would arrive and whether the digital solutions would be ready by then. On this point, the Minister replied that all service providers are currently discussing how this could be done optimally and so that it could be completed in time. Following the answers to these questions, decisions were taken: firstly, the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 11 October at 14 p.m., to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, 25 October 2017 at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint the chairman of the committee, Mr Kütt, as rapporteur, to speak before you. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U181	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions for you. I am opening negotiations for the representatives of the political groups to discuss the general principles of the draft law. Heljo Pikhof will be the first to speak on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We all know that, on the one hand, life expectancy is slowly increasing, but unfortunately, the number of years of healthy life has not risen. At the same time, the cost of health care for our people, including medicines, has increased, especially for older people. It is true that one of the most serious concerns of the Estonian medical system is our people's high own contribution to health costs, which is reaching the critical limit of 25%. At the same time, it is pleased to note that the country has taken and is taking a number of steps to reduce the number of treatments and to improve the quality of health care. Thousands and thousands of people have been forced to live together for years with sickness and ill health. There are a number of serious diseases where drug-free treatment would lead to death or a sudden deterioration of health. Good and effective medicines, however, are very expensive. If the health insurance fund did not pay for a considerable amount of prescription medicines, many would not be able to afford them. Yet, one in five recipes is currently not bought out because of a shortage of money. The most vulnerable are the chronic patients who are on low incomes and constantly need medication, the pensioners who are unable to work, and, of course, pensioners who have a higher need for treatment as a result of their age. There are chronic diseases that can go hand in hand with a number of diseases. In order to combat these diseases effectively, a large number of medicines often need to be used permanently and simultaneously. This means that it is not uncommon for a doctor to prescribe 50 prescriptions during the year. Whether it is a 75% discount on medicines for people at work or a 90% discount for pensioners, it is in any case a heavy blow to the wallet. No wonder, then, that at a time when many people spend an entire month of money a year or even more on medicines, some medications are not available at all. The Health Insurance Fund has calculated that over 110000 people in Estonia spend more than 100 euros a year on prescription medicines, with even 15,000 people spending more than 300 euros per year. The total cost of healthcare for the poorest households is 80% for medicines, compared with less than 20% for the richest households. As the Minister said here, the situation is making a decisive improvement since the new year. From January, an additional medical reimbursement system will come into force, making prescription medicines cheaper for almost 100,000 patients. The State will compensate 50% of the cost of pharmaceuticals between EUR 100 and 300 from 2018 and 90% of the cost of pharmaceuticals if the annual cost exceeds EUR 300. In other words, the state will rush to help people as soon as they have spent more than 100 euros on prescription medicines. For example, the cost of EUR 200 will be EUR 150 per person and EUR 190 for EUR 400 per person. It's a win to be taken into account. The new scheme will also make the patient's life easier, as pharmacies automatically consider compensation at the time of purchase. The adjustment will take effect as soon as 100 euros is completed. It also means that everyone who is entitled to it will receive compensation, not just those who have realised to ask for it. The current regime also provides for additional reimbursement of prescription medicines, but on a smaller scale and only on request. In this way, an additional benefit was paid to 2543 people last year, although in reality it could have been received by 8474 people. The overall cost of treatment for people is shown to be the most spent on dental care in 2015... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U183	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U184	... 29%, 22% for prescription medicines and 16% for non-prescription medicines. Undoubtedly, the new system of medical benefits, to which the state will allocate an additional EUR 3 million in the coming year, 215 additional million in the following four years to the medical system, as well as the law of 1 July, under which the health insurance fund will support more adult dental care (including retirement, pregnant and mothers with a child under one year of age) is an important effort to make medical care more accessible to our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U185	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 514. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the tabling of amendments to draft 514 at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U186	Today's fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, would like to speak as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Draft 490 of the Act amending the Social Welfare Act and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws is before you. It essentially foresees changes to three blocks. Firstly, the draft contains changes to the regulation of income support. Secondly, the draft provides for an end to the need-based payment of family allowances. Thirdly, the draft amendment to support the organisation of a funeral provides for the repeal of the State Death Allowance Act and allocates funds from the state budget to local government units to support the organisation of a funeral. When talking about changes in income support, we want to support and encourage recipients of income support to go back to work. Statistics show that the majority of recipients of income support do not receive income from work in 2016 only 8.9% of all recipients of income support received income from work. For this reason, we will create a more favourable transition period for returning income support recipients. If the current system reduces the amount of income support as soon as the first salary is received, the amount of income support will gradually decrease according to the new system. If the recipient of income support goes to work, the earnings received during the first two months are not included in the income for determining income support. Then, for the next four months, half of the remuneration received shall be included in the income for the purposes of determining the allowance. Thus, people are in a more favourable position to receive income support for the first six months. This exception, intended to facilitate employment, is aimed at those who have been beneficiaries of income support for at least the last two months without income from work. In order to avoid possible misuse, the draft provides that this support measure can be used once every two years, i.e. within 24 months. In addition, the draft provides for more flexible working conditions for school pupils. For example, under the new system, income earned by school pupils during school holidays is not included in the household income for the purposes of calculating income support. According to the draft, it is planned to waive the need-based family allowance. Statistics show that the rate of applying for needs-based family benefits has remained significantly lower than initially expected. We have also taken into account the fact that children's benefits have increased in recent years and, from summer onwards, the support of a family rich in children was added to all families with at least three children receiving child benefit. To partially compensate for the loss of needs-based family support, we want to raise the subsistence limit from 130 euros to 140 euros per month and for minors to 168 euros per month, or 120% of the subsistence limit of the first member of the family. In addition, in order to facilitate the calculation of the amount of possible income support, we see in the draft that all child benefits are fully included in the family's income when calculating income support. With the draft, we will also increase the discretion of local authorities in order to bring more flexibility to the system of income support. For example, local governments will have the opportunity not to include family incomes in the financial support received from close relatives within half the subsistence limit per month, as well as to cover income support for families receiving long-term income support for one-off housing costs within one-year subsistence limit. In addition, the draft allows local governments to reduce the amount of income support they can grant if, for example, some family members are not interested in going to work. According to the current law, the local government is able to exclude family income support in certain cases at all, but there is no possibility of reducing the amount of the allowance. According to the draft, it is possible to apply for income support throughout the calendar month, i.e. we waive the requirement that the application for income support must be submitted by the 20th of the month. Since beneficiaries of income support are families with the greatest need for help, they should be able to apply for support as soon as the need arises. Now the effects of the change in income support. The above changes are expected to reduce the absolute poverty rate in households by up to 2.8%. The amount of additional costs involved depends to a large extent on how many of the current beneficiaries of income support are motivated by the changes to employment resulting from the draft. Assuming that about 20% of non-workable earners go into employment, and that their period of employment extends to 9 months in the following year, we have really counted the minimum income, even if it is half of the minimum wage, it is estimated that the total cost of paying income support for all measures will increase by up to 4.1 million euros per year. In addition, in the first quarter of next year, there will be a cost of around EUR 730000 to cover the cost of the need-based payment of family allowances, as well as about EUR 70000 for the development of the Social Services and Support Data Register. As we motivate beneficiaries of income support to participate in employment, we hope that social tax receipts will also increase. The increase in social tax receipts resulting from the changes is expected to amount to up to EUR 2.95 million. As regards the changes relating to the organisation of the funeral, the current coalition agreement provides for the allocation of resources for the organisation of the funeral to local authorities. This leads to the repeal of the State Death Allowance Act. If under the current law, funerals are supported from the state budget only for funerals organised by local governments and only for those natural persons whose families have received income support in the last year, then the state wishes to assist in organising funerals for all Estonian residents. In doing so, we consider it reasonable that the application for and award of the allowance should be made closest to the person, i.e. in the local government, to which the person has to apply for a death certificate anyway. The allocation of funds from the state budget is based on the fact that, on average, local authorities can support the organisation of a funeral of EUR 250 per funeral. With the same amount, the state currently supports funerals organised by local authorities and funerals carried out by people receiving income support. The allocation of funds to local authorities takes place through the Support Fund and is dedicated. This means that it can also be used to pay funeral allowances to the loved ones of the deceased or for funerals organised by local authorities. After that, we have wanted to leave the local authorities the opportunity to rely on the family's need for help in paying the support. Whether the municipality uses it or pays it to everyone at one rate is up to it. Each local government unit can set its own conditions and procedures for the award-payment of the funeral allowance and decide whether to pay it as universal support to everyone or to take account of other circumstances, such as the financial situation of the family. In order for the state to have knowledge of whether and to what extent local authorities support the organisation of a funeral, the draft provides that data on applications for funeral allowance and funerals organised by local authorities will be processed in STAR, i.e. in the Social Services and Support Data Register. The corresponding development is planned to be financed from next year's budget. The amendments to the bill, which provide support for the organisation of a funeral for all deceased persons on average of EUR 250, amount to around EUR 3.8 million per year. Adding to this the amount of aid paid by local authorities so far will allow local authorities to support the organisation of a funeral of more than 300 euros. Of course, it is up to the local government unit to decide to what extent to continue to pay the existing grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U188	There are questions for the Minister. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U189	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I'm trying to understand the Social Ministry's house is a bad name, so let's say the floor, because you're now at the Super Ministry's handwriting. The previous minister from the same institution brought us a medical benefit system that is automatic. You are defending with your proposals, for example, funeral allowance, which is not automatic, but needs-based, i.e. money should be requested for this purpose. How do you discuss principles in the government and in the coalition at all, for example, whether automatic or not, which I consider to be a world-view issue, and how do you make decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U190	Thank you. First of all, I'm going to make it clear that we don't have just one floor there. The Ministry of Social Affairs still has several floors at its disposal, because we wouldn't fit one. But there is a fundamental difference between the level of state or local government. The medicine is handled only by the state, it is not dealt with by the local government, so it is at national level. Today, as I said, many municipalities themselves pay the funeral allowance and probably will continue to do so with own resources, in addition to state support. Local authorities are able to combine measures and increase money by this, and indeed, as has been said, to rely on whether differentiation is considered necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U191	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U192	Thank you. Good minister! I read one sentence in the explanatory memorandum: 'As the income limit for need-based family support is significantly higher than the subsistence limit, the changes contained in the draft proposal are not expected to be able to help all families who have received needs-based family support to date. " And now my question: How many of these families are there, and what should these families do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U193	Thank you. It is now known that about half of families have received needs-based family support because they are also recipients of income support, others are not. However, universal support has increased significantly, both for families with children and for the parents of individual children. As a result, the situation has changed much since the need-based family allowance was introduced. We must also not forget that there is a local government closest to every family and every child. In addition to the targeted amounts, additional funds have been provided to local authorities, from which additional grants can be paid. Surely the local government must look at each situation separately here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U194	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U195	Thank you. I have to admit, this is pretty ridiculous, especially from a representative of a right party. You recognise that poverty-based support is being abolished, partly compensated, but at the same time you say that there are still some amounts that can be paid on a need-based basis. It's extremely silly, shielded and backwards. This support could be kept calmly, but the administrative burden will also remain on the municipalities for the second amount. But I'm gonna take a look at the funeral allowance. You referred here to a nicely authoritative source, a coalition agreement, although that is a very bad reference in itself, that should not be the case. Please explain why it is necessary to compensate everyone for burial! Where is the world-viewed and noble beginnings of giving less money to the weaker ones, but also to people like me? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U196	Thank you for that question. I will answer your question, however, in the first place, to the part where you said it was absurd. Let it be on your conscience. However, when we are talking about need-based family support, it was introduced at a time when children's benefits were many times smaller than they are now. I think we all remember that time. Then there was a need-based child benefit and, in addition, greater support for families with at least three children receiving child benefit. Compared to this time, the current situation is completely different. At that point, it was assumed that the number of need-based child benefit applicants would be 46000, but only 13536 in 2016. So the assumption and the reality didn't come together. I admit that it would probably have been right to cancel the need-based child benefit at the moment when child benefits increased significantly. It would have been a better time, but now we'll do it later. This argument that the administrative burden remains the same is not true. Even now, local authorities have to pay and often pay grants, offering services based on the needs of their citizens. He's gonna do it anyway. Now, however, there is one step between here in terms of administrative burden. The calculation of the need-based child benefit is not carried out. There will be income support, which has been there anyway, and there will be additional benefits paid by the local government. Praxis has analysed this and recommended that the need-based payment of child benefit be stopped and, where possible, integrated into the income support system, as we are doing today. Now, from there. You said I referred to the coalition agreement. I can't remember that I would have explained this bill to the coalition agreement here today. I can check the verbogram later, but I don't know if I would have said so. But maybe that's not the most important thing. You asked why we saw that everyone would receive the same amount of funeral allowance. On the contrary, we are saying that we are counting this money at 250 euros per deceased person on average. This money goes to the local government through the grant fund. It is now up to the local government to decide whether and what differences it makes based on the financial situation of the family or other circumstances. That is the decision of the level that is closest to man.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U197	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U198	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I will continue on your newly completed subject. In your speech you said that funeral allowance is a special provision from the state to the local government. In the second sentence, however, you said that it was up to the local government to decide whether or not to use this support at all. Doesn't it create a scissor in terms of budget use when the state allocates money, and it assumes that this is what this amount is used for? Will the municipality receive the support proactively and then decide what it will do with it, or will it receive it afterwards, on the basis of the applications submitted according to the number of deceased persons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U199	Thank you. I didn't say it was up to the local government to decide whether or not to pay at all. Although, true, he has a chance not to pay. Just because he gets it for use means he can't make any other expenses out of that money. Really, he may have the money left over, because he doesn't have to take advantage of it, but he can't do anything else with it, and that's what's left on that line. It is paid to the municipality not by counting the deceased one by one, but by calculating the average number of the deceased. We know the overall mortality rates and calculate the corresponding percentage for each age group. So it is not at the end of the year that the figures are collected, but it is based on the average mortality rate and the age groups of the local government population. Now that the local authorities are larger, it can be assumed that such a percentage calculation is competent. If there were very small municipalities, there could be anomalies, but now probably there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U200	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U201	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I would first like to make a small remark to you. We are talking about need-based family support, not child support. It would be good if you could tell the difference. However, I would like to come back to my previous question. I asked how many families would turn out to be those who lose.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U202	Thank you for that question. You asked how many families would lose. Like this? [[M. Lauri's explanation of the floor.]] Thank you. I'm gonna find those numbers right now. As I said, about half of the need-based family benefits received this benefit because they have received income support, and about half are those who receive it for this reason. But now we are making a comparison with the moment that family benefits have already risen and the support of a family rich in children has already risen. So in this sense, as I said, this moment of reference is neither the best nor the most adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U203	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! You too come to the Riigikogu with draft laws, both of which lack the intention to develop. Is this a line through, and what is the reason for this? We have repeatedly talked in this Chamber about what ministers have also very much agreed to, namely in Estonia, whose independence has been restored for 25 years, legislation should already be correct. Now there are laws without plans to be developed, yet these are all very sensitive social and important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U205	Thank you. I believe that you agree with me that this is a very necessary and very good draft. When we are talking here, for example, about supporting this same work and encouraging it, I hope that you will all support this bill in becoming a law. I believe that you have been told here before, but I repeat: we have received the task of submitting this draft to the Riigikogu without the intention of drafting it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U206	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U207	Thank you. Madam Secretary! I assure you that you referred specifically to the coalition agreement in the case of the death grant, you have now referred to the order of the government, and what you have also rejected there was a false rejection. [[???K. Iva: 'Otsusele, jah.'???]] You said you wanted to support the funeral of all people. It is a bad sound in itself, but the fact is that you want to reduce the need-based approach that has so far been a goal. Now, as Minister of the IRL, do you have any weather-prone relics that are a little reluctant, either for this coalition agreement, for the government's arrangement, or for any change that reduces the targeting of social support and increases universality?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U208	Thank you. If we want to start having some broader discussions, I believe, honourable member of the Riigikogu, that we can do so later and in other forums. At this point, we are discussing draft 490. But I would point out that you have diametrically understood things differently. If we say that we will make it possible for the local government to support all funerals, with an estimate of EUR 250 per deceased, this is simply an opportunity. How the local government uses it and in what form it takes into account people's need for help, that is its own decision. Let us not underestimate local authorities and leave decisions to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U209	Honourable member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi, negotiations start a little later. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum says that some families who qualify for income support will not receive it. Maybe you'll shed some light on the situation. Then who will not receive this support?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U211	Thank you. I don't know that in the framework of this bill, someone could automatically get out of income support. On the contrary, in the current situation, where we are trying to encourage work with this draft, i.e. to make income support more favourable within six months in the sense that it is not calculated in terms of income from the household, it will rather keep the person receiving the allowance. During this period, i.e. six months, he will receive support, then he will leave this target group, but not before. We do want to encourage people to go to work, because, after all, work is the only tool that preserves people's self-esteem and creates them wealth. So when they finally come out of the income support measure, it will certainly be our common pleasure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U212	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U213	Thank you, President of the sitting. Dear Minister, I'm coming back to the funeral allowance. Now, the thing is, if I'm listening to this story here, it sounds a little controversial to me. On the one hand, it is said that support, calculated on the basis of the average number of deceased persons, is now given to the local government, who can then determine how the funeral allowance is awarded. On the surface, it's like it's on a need-based basis. In the draft, however, I read that this is, in fact, the basis for the annual grant or allocation from the state budget for the following year. This means, however, that the municipalities themselves are interested, already methodically, to make the most of this money. Is it really need-based support, or is it really really support?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U214	First of all, thank you for this question. As I explained, the current situation and what will be coming shortly after the local elections on Sunday are slightly different. Local authorities are much larger. This means, however, that one municipality is likely to have both the wealthiest and the less prosperous. In this sense, the average situation is smoothing out. Now, however, the local government really has the opportunity to use the funds in response to the needs of its citizens. The structure of the population has also been taken into account, i.e., of course, the mortality rate of the elderly is calculated by a second percentage compared to that of the middle age population. It is true that regional differences such as wage levels or any other criteria are currently not taken into account. It hasn't been done. If there is a desire to continue to do so in the future, then, of course, this is also an opportunity. I owe you numbers for one last answer, and I'll say it. In 2016, a total of 6184 households received needs-based family support and 51.5% received this support because they also received income support last month.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U215	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U216	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. What is very good about this bill is that the children's coefficient has been raised when calculating the limit of living. And not only on 1 as I, as Minister for Social Protection, was able to bring this rate, but now it is 1.2. Perhaps if the subsistence limit rises to 140 euros, it will be 168 euros for children. This will also make it easier for a single parent, for example, to raise one, two, or three children. Maybe you'll comment on that a little bit more. It seems that this is precisely what will also make it easier for children from families in difficult circumstances to grow.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U217	Thank you. The reason why we went this way in the first place with this draft, that we linked the child component more strongly to the delivery support mechanism, was precisely the Praxis analysis proposal referred to above. On the one hand, it reduces the administrative burden, on the other hand, the child component is clearer. We also considered a factor of 1.1, but we found that this is not enough to support children. Undoubtedly, for all families with children, this increases the consumption weight of children will give 1.2 a great deal of relief. In the case of children, it is less effective, but at the same time, I dare say, as motivation or as a message, it is very important that we no longer count the children's allowance as income support during school holidays. It has indeed been asked about, and I think it has been very poor. If the child has gone to work for a while in the summer, his or her earned allowance has become part of the family's income and therefore income support has been reduced. In addition, one frequent bottleneck concerning families with children will now also be eradicated, even though it is not a special response from the state. For example, when Grandma sent the granddaughter a birthday fee of EUR 10 to 20, it also took the family's income into account and reduced the allowance. These very minor shortcomings have also been reflected in this draft and are now corrected. I believe that there are a number of things that the beneficiaries and local authorities are expecting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U218	Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. Marika Tuus-Laul, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Kaia Iva presented the draft to the Commission on 25 September. All the members of the Commission were present, and our main focus was on the regulation of funeral support. I will start with the questions that arose in the Commission. First, the Minister was asked why this task would be directed to the local government, so it would increase their administrative burden, and why we would not reinstate the procedure under which the Social Insurance Board provided for a specific amount for the funeral organizer. The Minister replied that there had been an administrative reform leading to more independent municipalities. Moreover, there is confusion when support is granted from two locations, both from the State and from the municipality. Since more than half of the municipalities already pay funeral allowance, it is only a change for them once. There was an interest in how people in the future should know that they have the right to apply for funeral allowance if the law no longer mentions the word 'death allowance'. The Minister's advisor explained that since the person has to contact the municipality to register death anyway, the municipality can inform the person accordingly. Moreover, as we know, municipalities themselves also organise funerals for people who are not members of the funeral, and in this case they are not funeral grants. It was feared that the municipality could use this money for something else. The answer was that this amount was intended to cover the costs of organising the funeral. The municipality can pay funeral allowance for people or arrange funerals for people without family. Moreover, if the local authority does not make use of the allocated amount by the end of the year, it will be granted less money next year. However, no municipality is interested in this, so they must use this money for the funeral. It was also asked whether the new municipalities would be able to adapt so quickly as new local authorities would have to take over very many new times next year. The Minister agreed that the burden was really high and said that this regulation, which is being made, could initially be more general, because it can later be clarified. It would not make sense, for example, to postpone the date of entry into force by six months, as those who left in the first half of the year would then lose their support. Moreover, the amount allocated through the Fund certainly requires the entry into force of the Act at the beginning of the year. In short, there was also an increase in the level of subsistence. It was asked that if local governments were to have the right to decide on one-off housing-related benefits paid to people, what are they? The Minister replied that these were, for example, the costs of installing the gas sensor or wiping the chimney and other costs related to the fireplace to a certain extent. The limit is 140 euros per year. There was also a question of how the new system will motivate you to go to work. The Minister has also provided a very detailed explanation of this here. In the first two months, income support that is not included in the family's income and in the next four months, the income of the family is already 50% of the working income. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 11 October 2017 (consensus), that the first reading be closed (also by consensus) and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days. The rapporteur was appointed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U220	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Please, on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group, Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U221	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill gives rise to two feelings. On the one hand, it is a good thing that municipalities are given more discretion and the opportunity to decide and really look at what reasons or how to grant grants. On the other hand, the justifications and explanations for the need-based exclusion of family support are strange. To be honest, there was no clarity in asking the Minister questions today. What's the matter? We are losing need-based support because too few people are asking for this support. After all, we should be happy if this is not recommended, so there is no need. We could, of course, see why so much support is not needed. What are the reasons? Is there bureaucracy or is there something else? Maybe you don't need it. It's nice not to have to, people can handle it. It was the strangest thing for me, though, when I read the draft explanatory statement and listened to what the minister was saying here. I consistently asked the Minister twice how many families would lose their support because the need-based family allowance would disappear. There wasn't really an answer. There was only a vague story about who gets how much, and so on. I hate to say this, but I will refer the answer to the Social Affairs Committee. The minister said there's always someone who loses. Yeah, well, someone always loses. But then it would be good to know how many lose. Such childhoods, both in the explanatory memorandum and in the answers to today's questions, come from the fact that this draft has also been made without preparation, without a preconceived plan, and the explanatory memorandum of the draft is a matter of urgency. It is this haste and the rabbi that is the reason. I would like to emphasise once again: there are a number of things in this draft that I like, but I would always like things to be better and that, when the reasons are given, they would also be substantive and that the rapporteur would be able to answer the questions, all the more so because the same questions were also asked in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U222	Ms Tuus-Laul spoke on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, What we're legitimizing right now is one debt. This is a very long-term debt to the Estonian people. It is awkward to think that in the summer of 2009, Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, at the time, started massive cuts in the state budget from the bereaved ones, who already have very high costs of funerals. It was so urgent that the new regime came into force in 12 days' time. The decision was made with the votes of the Reform Party, the IRL and the Greens. The decision was all the more brutal, that we initially started paying the funeral allowance from 1993, if you think about it, in a very poor country of Estonia, where our state budget was very small. As you will remember, we were not dealing with billions, but the 1993 state budget was EUR 262 million, or at that time EUR 4.1 billion. However, this support was lost in 2009 when the state budget was actually repeated, in several dozens of times larger. This is really embarrassing. We have brought the same draft to the Chamber several times, and it has still been voted out of the procedure. True, even before the 2015 Riigikogu elections, they tried to return the death grant, but unfortunately the coalition was not able to restore it to everyone, but only to those natural persons who received income support, and the recipients of the funeral allowance were still only in a few hundred rounds. If we consider that about 15,000 people die a year, but only a few hundred natural persons receive support for funerals, plus about the same number of funerals organised by local governments, then the order of magnitude is very small. I am really very pleased that we can bring this support back now, together with you, I hope that everyone will still vote for it. This is a very long-term commitment from the Centre Party and I am glad that it entered into the coalition agreement. Of course, it is also a big deal that each minor member of the family has a significant income limit of 168 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U224	Please, on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U225	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good people's representatives! All the five draft laws that we are dealing with and discussing here today concern very important topics and indeed a large part of the Estonian population. There is support for family, support for households, support for single parents and funeral allowance. All this is very important. In my opinion, however, the biggest problem is precisely what we have repeatedly emphasised here in this Chamber, we have very strong scientists, we have very good social scientists, but now we are seeing successive legislative proposals that do not have a development plan. We have not really studied the extent or the meaning of these effects; the Ministry has no intention of delving into it, referring on the one hand to the coalition agreement and, on the other hand, to the fact that the subject has long been dealt with. Yes, they have been dealt with in general terms, but not in order to move forward as a country with correct laws. It is very embarrassing when we get here all the time, in a row and in a row, draft laws that have not been submitted correctly, up to date and hoped for through work. Here's the question. The contradiction is not in the problems themselves, but in the very inadequate work of the government on these draft laws. We can't say we have good social scientists, but we don't even involve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U226	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 490. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 490 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U227	The sixth item is the first reading of draft law 517 on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U228	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I'm in front of you with another bill. To begin with, I wanted to give Krista Aru, who, unfortunately, left, a small reminder regarding the previous draft law. In particular, I referred to the fact that its main points were based precisely on Praxis's analyses and proposals. With regard to this draft, with which I am now before you, I would also like to stress the documents on which it is based. In 2015, the Green Paper on family allowances, services and parental leave was completed and an analysis of the parental leave and benefits system was completed in 2016. It can therefore be said that the proposals for this draft have been very carefully examined, and have been the focus of many analysts and social scientists. But why did we draw up this bill? As in Europe with an ageing and declining population at all, certain questions have arisen in Estonia. We are faced with the challenge of finding ways to support childbearing and providing sufficient flexibility for families so that parents can also work while caring for their children. That is why we have prepared a series of changes. These changes are very substantial and require agreements between many parties, which have already been referred to here, as well as thorough preparation and development of the Social Insurance Board and other information technology. That is why we decided to develop two drafts, which will be implemented in stages. In the first stage, we incorporated into this bill the relevant provisions of the Three Laws on Family Benefits, the Tax Administration Act and the Employment Contracts Act. The main objective of parental benefit is to maintain an early income by granting state support to the parent and to support reconciliation of work and family life. The current parental benefit system is generous and unique in Estonia, but little flexibility has been blamed on it. Also, the current law does not motivate fathers to take parental leave. Although, according to the rules in force, parents may choose, after the child has reached 70 days of age, which will mainly take care of the child, it is mainly the mothers who receive the parental benefit. For example, in 2016, only 9.3% of all beneficiaries of parental benefit had fathers. In addition, long career breaks due to the caring burden of women cause gender inequality, i.e. a pay gap of 20,90% in 2016. Women paid about a fifth less per hour than men. In addition, Estonia is already short of working hands and in the future there will be an increasing shortage of them. However, young people who have created or are planning a family are in the best working age, and so we need to create more opportunities to combine work and family life. The amendments proposed in the draft act aim to create more opportunities for reconciling work and family life in the parental benefit system and to promote a more balanced distribution of care burden among parents. So what are these basic changes? First, at the time the parental benefit is paid, it is possible to earn up to half of the upper limit of the parental benefit, which is estimated to be EUR 1544 per calendar month for the following year without any reduction in the benefit. The beneficiary of the parental benefit will receive a benefit of EUR 470 for the following year instead of the benefit of the former party. This provision of the law would enter into force on 1 March 2018, according to the draft. Secondly, from the same time, a triplet and multiple-numbered allowance of EUR 1000 per month will be introduced for one parent until the children reach 18 months of age. Thirdly, the period underlying the calculation of parental benefit is amended. In the future, parental benefit is calculated on the basis of the income of the 12 calendar months preceding pregnancy. Here, the length of pregnancy is estimated to be exactly nine calendar months. The amendment is scheduled to enter into force on 1 September 2019. Fourthly, the payment of child care fees will be discontinued and its resources will gradually be linked to the parental benefit system. The date of entry into force of this amendment is also 1 September 2019. Fifthly, the draft makes the use of paternity leave more flexible, thus increasing the decision-making power of families. The aim is to bring paternity leave closer to the day the child is born and to enable the father to stay at home with the child. As the child gets older, the father will be paid an additional parental benefit for the period 30 days before the child's expected birth until the child reaches the age of 3. The amendment therefore allows fathers to stay on paternity leave for 30 days instead of the current 10 working days and to receive parental benefit for that period. It is important that the father's right to parental benefit does not depend on his previous employment relationship or the contractual form of work, and the father can use the benefit at the same time as the mother or separately. The deadline for the entry into force of this amendment is 1 July 2020. Sixthly, the bill makes parental benefit more flexible. In most European countries, parents are allowed to choose which period of time and the amount of parental benefit they want to use, for example by combining part-time work and the simultaneous payment of partial parental benefit to both parents. Although in Estonia parental leave can be used either in one part or in parts until the child reaches the age of three, there is currently no flexibility in withdrawing parental benefit during this period. The draft stipulates that parental benefit can be suspended and continued, as the parent wishes, until the child reaches the age of three. The date of entry into force of this amendment could also be 1 July 2020. The expected effects of the future law are primarily related to older labour market behaviour. As a result of the changes, we expect that the labour market activity of parents receiving parental benefit will increase by at least 5%, i.e. the share of parents earning income among the beneficiaries of parental benefit will total up to 15%. Making the use of paternity leave more flexible is expected to lead to a doubling of the number of fathers receiving parental benefit by 2021 to around 20%, so that the father's supplementary parental benefit will be used by 67% of fathers by 2021. What is the impact on the state budget? Compared to the current situation, all changes have an impact on state budget expenditure in the years 2018 to 2021 of 4.4 to 8.2 million euros in total, but with better opportunities to reconcile work and family life at the time of receiving parental benefits, tax revenues are expected to be 3.6 to 4.2 million euros in the same years, making total expenditure on the state budget much lower. These costs have also been taken into account in the preparation of the state budget. As has been said, we are also planning to come to the honourable Riigikogu with the following proposals on how to make parental benefit and the holiday system more flexible. With this, we hope to be ready at the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U229	The first question to the Minister is put by Jüri Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U230	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. It is very gratifying that a whole month's parental leave is planned to come to the normal family. But if we mean equal treatment in society, what should families do where the father is not, where the father has left the family or died, or families with same-sex parents? For example, if a child has two mothers, how can they benefit from paternity leave?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U231	Thank you for this question and thank you for your concern for their families. As I said, the need to amend this law is due to the fact that in a family where there are two parents, the burden of care is now very unevenly distributed. The aim is precisely to spread the maintenance load more evenly. At the same time, in families where there is no other party, we are not in a position to create it there. The extension of paternity leave has primarily been driven by the interest that the care burden should be better distributed and that mothers have greater confidence that they will not be left alone when raising their children in families where the father exists. This part of the leave shall not be transferred to another party in any country. Just as mothers have the exclusive right to maternity leave, fathers currently have the exclusive right to 10 days, or 30 days of parental leave. These rights will continue to be transferable. Yes, in other countries, and also in other countries, we can transfer the rest of the days of parental leave to each other; every family can decide how all this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U232	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U233	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Any flexibility requires several parties. One party is the State, which gives the employee opportunities, the other is the employer. The Confederation of Employers has referred to its concern and I would like your comment. The problem is that they do not think that they can know in advance when one of the parents is going on vacation. It's a problem for them, because there's a lack of hands. What are the government's next intentions to solve this problem? There is a system of substitute farmers in agriculture. Is the creation of a system of replacement workers considered? Or what is the employer's guarantee that they will be willing to come along with this system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U234	Thank you. It is very right that there must, of course, be a balance between the interests of the employee, the employer and the family. This is undoubtedly important. As regards these changes and making the system more flexible, I would point out that, to a large extent, employers are also looking forward to these changes. Yes, families are interested in this, and mothers want to be more involved in the labour market, work alongside raising a child, for example, and be active. However, employers also want them to be able to contact their parents at home. In this way, they too hope that the system will create flexible opportunities for work. Now, how long should the notice periods be and how can it be arranged in such a way that all parties are little disturbed? As I said, we will come up at the end of the year with another bill that deals very precisely with employment relations. We were not consciously writing changes to the notice deadlines into this draft, as it requires a more in-depth negotiation with employers. These will certainly be reflected in the second draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U235	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U236	Thank you. Good minister! Paternity leave extends from 10 working days to 30 days. It is also known to be taken out one day at a time. Then it turns out somebody might be home for a month and a half. How do you comment on such a solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U237	Thank you. As I have explained in the Commission when discussing this issue, it is now written in the draft that the employer has the right to refuse to grant this leave in instalments of less than five days. I agree that it would be good to consider this now during the proceedings of the Riigikogu and to provide for regulation in such a way that the employer has the right to refuse this leave if it is less than seven days. Well, there's a weekend in there anyway. But at the same time, this holiday could be taken in shorter sections if the number of days of rest and working days were the same. So that's the right question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U238	Jüri Jaanson, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U239	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask what logic is based on the principle of multiple support. The draft states that EUR 1000 will receive monthly support from the parents of triplets and multiples. But the costs associated with multiples are still the higher the more they are. If you have two children, the costs are double. On what basis is this rate so rigidly established? Why isn't it more flexible? This support could rather be linked to the number of children.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U240	Thank you. Child benefits are linked to the number of children. And we have also had a significant increase in benefits for families with many children. Quite often, when multiples are born, the family gets involved in families with many children. But why have we paid special attention to triplets and multiples of more? This is because there will be a situation where there will be no more hands for children. That is why triplets and multiples of multiples have been highlighted. After all, all multiple recipients say yes, one is complicated, two is even more complicated, but it is not physically possible to cope with triplets at once. Why that kind of money? This amount is based on the fact that it represents more or less an average salary. Yes, it may be decided whether this could be a little bigger or a little smaller, but this money is expected to allow you to hire a helping hand and also compensate for the loss of income if someone in your family or in other family reduces your workload to help care for your children. Why have we chosen, for example, support rather than a double benefit and leave for the father at some point? Because all families are on an equal footing so that everyone can freely choose who to call for help, who to hire or how to spend that money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U241	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U242	Thank you. Good minister! When I looked at all the changes you've made here, at one point it became like they were going to eat each other, or they were going to create this kind of villain in people's minds. In particular, I refer to the flexibility in which a person can, in principle, go to work on almost any day and then return home again, how he or she feels necessary. And at the same time, he can do some work during that vacation. These solutions go a little perpendicular to each other or overlap. I would also like to point out that this work income that is available at the time of receiving parental benefit is a very generous opportunity. Aren't you afraid that they're going to do it in a certain way now? Was the combined effect of the two measures analysed? I have a feeling it wasn't done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U243	Thank you. To reassure you, it was analyzed. So this fear is in vain. Now this remark that there are different measures in the draft and a virvard in the minds of people. In fact, nothing has gotten any more complicated. It is still possible to work at the time of receiving this benefit; there is no change in that regard. Indeed, these rates have changed for how much a person can work before the compensation begins to decrease. This rate is now much higher. This EUR 1 500 and more gives this greater opportunity. Why did we do that? Because many people would like to work on a project basis for a little more money, either on a continuous basis or on a project basis. This is particularly true when it comes to project-based work and not to continuous part-time work. We know very bad examples where such work has actually done a man a disservice: he has worked on something for several months and has been rewarded at the same time, but he has lost a lot of parental compensation. It is a shared interest of families and employers to have greater flexibility in this respect. I would also point out that, on the one hand, we are allowing more work than the family wants, while on the other hand, the floor where compensation will be reduced was brought down. At present, this half of the person's compensation is calculated; in the future, it usually moves to a lower level, but not below a certain rate. The question was whether certain artificial movements could be made in the future in order to exploit the scheme abusively. I say there are circumstances that reduce that risk. Firstly, the fact that if one of the parents is on leave, it is not possible for the other to receive compensation at the same time. If one is already on vacation, he will receive compensation. Secondly, there will be changes in the calculation of income tax in the coming year. It is not reasonable that one family member receives no income at all and the other receives compensation and remuneration. All these elements have been analysed and taken into account in the complex. Undoubtedly, if within a few years it starts to feel that something needs to be changed in the system, it needs to be thoroughly analysed and the changes made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U244	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U245	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I am sorry, but your reply to my colleague Jüri Jaanson that we do not take into account the difficulties of twins, because two hands are enough for them, but not for triplets, is absolutely not competent. My godmother has raised two pairs of twins and been in the same difficult situation as threesomes. Why has the possibility of differentiation of supplementary payments not been considered? For example, in the case of triplets, this would be necessary. To claim that, judging by the ability of the hands, support should be granted, this is not a level of government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U246	Thank you. I believe that your irritation is not appropriate in the sense that it is at the level of the government to prepare a draft and to deal with it at the level of the Riigikogu, to propose amendments and to adopt the law in the form that the Riigikogu considers appropriate. But when we talk about what kind of additional measure the country is taking, it is clear that a family with triplets and multiples is a degree with a stronger need for help than a family with one or two children who have become richer. But maybe this is actually a problem that we can also leave something to the local government to solve. However, I repeat: of course, the Riigikogu has the opportunity to amend the bill, find money and make one good law even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U247	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U248	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the course of proceedings before the Commission, and probably also in the report by the Commission representative, there is a problem with the termination of parental benefit. Until the child is three years old, the child care allowance is paid at 38 euros. This is especially acute for single parents. If a single-child mother is born with twins, she would receive 50 + 50 euros of first and second child allowance plus parental benefit. In the case of triplets and in the case of a family with two parents, this amount would be EUR 500 + 1000 plus parental benefit and plus the father's personal leave for 30 days. Actually, it creates a little inequality. Obviously, we are discussing this in the Committee on Social Affairs, but what is your opinion? How do you explain that this is what the bill proposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U249	Thank you. We also discussed in the Commission when we spoke about child care pay that when this remuneration was created, it was meant as a substitute income. It has remained unchanged ever since. However, in the meantime, we have come up with parental benefit that did not exist at the time. At present, two different systems have been combined and child care fees have somewhat lost their influence. But, as has been said, the Commission will certainly discuss this and make good and appropriate improvements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U250	Minister, thank you. No further questions. The Chairman of the Social Committee, Helmen Kütt, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U251	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the amendment of the Family Benefits Act and, in this connection, the draft law amending other laws 517 at its meeting on 2 October. Monika Haukanõm, Marika Tuus-Laul, Viktor Vassilyev, Maris Lauri, Yoko Alender Liina Kersna, Tiina Kangro, Jüri Jaanson, Dmitri Dmitriev and Helmen Küttt took part. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, Hanna Vseviov, Head of the Children and Families Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Pirjo Turk, Head of Family Policy in the same department, and Jaanus Põldmaa, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Minister also gave a very thorough overview of the Commission and, together with the agency, answered our questions. Some of the questions have also been put in the Chamber today, and I will not focus again on them by introducing the work of the Social Affairs Committee. I am talking about the issues that remain in the Commission's session. Maris Lauri asked what would happen if the biological father of the child took out the parental benefit, but he did not actually deal with the child, and whether the father was married to his mother or not. Pirjo Turk replied that parental benefit was paid to all parents regardless of their marital relationship. The child's biological father has priority over receiving parental benefit. The child's mother's spouse may use an additional parental benefit, but the child's biological father must be authorised to do so. Hanna Vseviov added that if a parent has no parental rights restriction, there is no reason to withdraw parental benefits. Therefore, nothing can be included in the draft, except that the consent of the biological father is necessary to transfer the parental benefit to the new spouse of the mother who is actually raising the child. But in a situation where the father does not raise and care for the child, it is possible to limit the parental rights of the father. Jüri Jaanson asked about his father's additional parental benefit in a situation involving a mother raising a child alone. Pirjo Turk explained that the father's additional parental benefit is an extension of the current paternity leave. The purpose of the draft law is, above all, to spread the care burden more evenly among parents in order to motivate both parents to care for the child, while additional compensation and leave periods are primarily intended to motivate fathers. A single mother shall not be entitled to paternity leave or supplementary benefit for the father. Yoko Alender asked if there wouldn't be an inequality if triplets and multiples were to receive a new bonus, but twins didn't. The official explained that triplets and multiples are seen as the most need for assistance and parental benefit is based on an effort to ensure a parent's previous income. In general, the principle is that several replacement incomes are not guaranteed and therefore multiple parents are now receiving one parental benefit. There was another question about the unequal situation, concerning parents who raise children alone. Tiina Kangro noted that the parent raising the child alone is already in a difficult situation, but she also has no income when the payment of the child care allowance ends. Single mothers do not have to share child care with someone to whom the state would pay holiday allowance for it. Hanna Vseviov noted that the current system also included the so-called mother's individual right to maternity leave and maternity benefit. Mothers are entitled to 140-day parental leave scheme, with their father unable to receive parental benefit on the first 70 days of their life. The draft simply wants to extend the father's care leave and bring more equality to the family. There were a number of other issues concerning the implementation of the law, after all, the time limits are different. Yoko Alender asked if the analysis had been carried out and how much the risk that, if the benefit was no longer reduced, the benefit would actually be paid to the recipient of the higher salary, the father, which meant an additional risk to the mother in the sense that the pension would be lower in the future. After all, this depends on income subject to social tax. Hanna Vseviov explained that this possible situation, where the mother is at home and unemployed and the father is working and also earning parental benefit, has been analysed very thoroughly. Firstly, this risk is mitigated by the fact that there is a link between being on leave and receiving compensation. It cannot be that one of the parents is on vacation and the other receives compensation. When registered as unemployed, the mother loses her job protection and the opportunity to return to the same job after parental leave. If a person is not on parental leave, he or she will not receive parental benefit. Then, in most cases, he loses his medical and pension insurance. It is possible for this parent to register for unemployment in order to maintain health and pension insurance, but in this case he must actively seek employment. If he does not do so, the unemployment fund may stop paying him unemployment benefit. These were the issues raised in the Commission and it was found that the Commission must definitely involve more stakeholders to discuss the draft. We have already actually received a number of opinions from employers. Finally, the following procedural decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 October and that the first reading be closed, and to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, 25 October at 5.15 p.m. Monika Haukamm, vice-president of the Commission, was appointed rapporteur. These were all consensual decisions. Due to unexpected family reasons, Monika Haukanõm was unable to make a report here today, and ex officio, i.e. because of my office, I am doing it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U252	The first question to the rapporteur is asked by Aivar Kokk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U253	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Can you tell me how much it spends on the budget when the law is passed? Is that money coming from something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U254	This question did not arise in the Commission, but the impact of the draft is stated in the draft law and the minister replied here. Account has been taken of the cost of the budget, but also of the fact that if people can go to work thanks to flexible regulation, it will generate revenue for the state budget. But I will say once again that there was no such question raised in the Commission and there was no debate on it, but it seems to me that the cost is about 5 million when I read the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U255	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U256	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The aim of increasing flexibility and family decision-making is still highlighted in this draft. But extending the father's parental leave from 10 days to 30 days does not increase flexibility, but vice versa. The state is actually writing it to the family. Was there a debate on this and, if so, what position did it sound like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U257	Thank you for your question. This was not the case in the Commission. Obviously, we will have to come up with this in the next discussions. I will certainly take this matter to the Commission and we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U258	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U259	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have one more question. When this bill becomes a law, does the parent who is raising a child alone ever change the financial situation? If you look at how much he's getting support now and how much he's getting, will he get better if that law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U260	Thank you for your question. This issue was also not raised in the Committee on Social Affairs. However, at the moment, if a parent raising a child alone receives parental benefit, this benefit will start to decrease even if he or she earns more than EUR 470. It is also subject to this ceiling, which is proposed to increase to EUR 1 500. It is only from this amount that parental benefit begins to decrease.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U261	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U262	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On 10 December 2003, the Riigikogu passed and on 1 January 2004 quite a number of disputes and emotional parental benefit laws came into force. Parental benefit payments were made on the basis of the law that entered into force at the beginning of February of the same year, and at the end of February I had my first son. As usual, timing is the most important thing. The son was in a hurry to give birth, so I was heartily grateful to those members of the Riigikogu who made it possible for me to devote fully to my child and his health, and I did not have to worry about how to manage financially at that time. It was a big deal, and it's a big deal right now. I believe that today's young parents can also appreciate our parental benefit system. By the way, at least last year, according to an article published in Economist, Estonia was the most prominent country in all OECD countries than the most kind country to young parents. That's a pretty fancy title! In 13 years, however, a lot has changed. It has become apparent that a good system also has weaknesses. The nature of employment relations has also changed over the period, and so the focus of our parental benefit system has become more and more limited. For example, in 2008, I went from my second child, who was a year old, to work and worked for a minimum wage, because the arrangements that were in force at that time did not allow more. The draft amends the parental benefit system with the aim of creating more opportunities for reconciling work and family life, as well as a more uniform distribution of parental care burden. I would highlight these two aspects as the most important of this draft, in my opinion. First of all, changes to help reconcile work and family life. Under the current scheme, the period of parental benefit is 18 months and must be used in a row. The system does not provide for the possibility of suspension and reopening, so it is not flexible. It is a fact that childcare facilities before the age of three are quite difficult to obtain in many places. Sometimes a worried mother's heart doesn't allow it. At the same time, being at home for three consecutive years represents a significant reduction in qualifications in a wide range of disciplines. Life is still more varied than the laws can count. At present, the expectations and needs of both workers and employers in employment relations are different from those of 2003. The draft therefore provides for the right of parents to suspend the parental benefit and continue it as they wish until the child reaches the age of three. This use of parental benefit according to the needs of the family is important and ensures such important flexibility of the system. This provides an opportunity to work for shorter periods, such as when grandparents have the opportunity to stay at home with their granddaughter. It is possible to agree with the employer on the organisation of work that meets the needs of both the child and his or her parents, as well as of the employer. When using Sweden as a reference, I note that it is possible to use the paid period until the child goes to school. In summary, it gives the parent the opportunity to work with the right burden on himself and the family alongside raising a young child, while maintaining their qualifications. The financial aspect is also important. Compared to the current law, the permitted working income is increased three times. In 2017, the permitted income rate is EUR 470 per calendar month, while in 2018 it is already on average EUR 1544. If, so far, the reduction granted to the beneficiary half of the parental benefit, the draft provides that the benefit will be maintained for the full amount of the parental benefit. Thus, a young parent has the right to work and receive an honest reward. Another, at least as important, aspect of the draft under consideration is the objective of a more uniform distribution of the maintenance burden between parents. The proposal specifically extends paternity leave. It is possible for the father to stay on paternity leave for 30 days instead of the current 10 working days and to exercise this right at the same time as the mother or separately until the child reaches the age of 3. In view of our traditional family in 2017, one in four families with children is a single-parent family, where only a third of parents living separately from the family regularly pay their children their living allowance, where, unfortunately, close communication between the deceased parent and the child or children takes place only in one tenth of cases, every measure that strengthens the child's bond with the father is extremely important, extremely necessary. If a father spends some time dedicated to a young child, it will surely strengthen the relationship between the child and the father, and perhaps ensure that the strong bond that has developed will continue to be maintained in the future. My personal hope is that one day we will be ready to book a third of the parental leave period for another parent, i.e. mostly Dad. One more thing. Since each person has only two hands, and since my children are born one by one, I can't imagine how to deal with multiples, especially when there are three or more. The draft provides for the establishment of a triple and more multiple allowance of EUR 1000 per month for one parent until the children reach the age of 18 months. I really believe that this is the least the country can do for multiple parents. In the opinion of the Socialist Group, this is a very, very good draft and we support it. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U263	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 517. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 517 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October. Ladies and gentlemen, as President of the sitting, I will take a minute to give you an explanatory message. I recall an episode at the beginning of today's working day when MP Igor Gräzin expressed his concern at the dwindling possibilities of parking cars in the front of the Riigikogu in this hall. According to him, 20 parking spaces have disappeared and this whole change has taken place today. I discussed this with the director of our office, Peep Jahilo, and we agreed that I will repeat everything, everything! The members of the Riigikogu receive an exact explanation of the new procedure in their electronic mailbox, and this is the very nearest time. However, I can already say that parking spaces will not be reduced by 20, but by five, and this process has been going on much longer than just one night. This process has been extremely long, the work has lingered, and we are eagerly waiting for the new system to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U264	Today's seventh item is the first reading of the draft Act 518 amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and amending the Act on Social Welfare. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U265	Again, Mr President. Once again, honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you today with the third draft, and I hope that we will also have a debate on this. Draft Act amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes and amending the Act on Social Welfare 518. The draft does not make substantive changes to the law of the repressed. The aim is to increase the support of the repressed from EUR 192 to EUR 230 per year. In the past, technical changes have been made to the regulation of the support repressed over 10 years, but the total amount of support has not increased since 2006. The repressed support will increase for all those who have been repressed and treated as such, including, of course, those who have been forced into the Chernobyl nuclear disaster area to eliminate the consequences of the disaster. This provision shall enter into force on 1 January 2018 and shall be paid in a new amount. The time limit for disbursements is not stated in the law, but normally this aid has been paid in January. The second provision of the draft law complements the Social Welfare Act with a new section 11 and introduces social support for persons sent from Estonia forced to deal with the consequences of a nuclear disaster. The amount of social benefit will also be 230 euros and will also be paid to stateless persons residing in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent residence permit or temporary residence permit or temporary right of residence. In addition to the abovementioned group of persons, social benefits will be paid to persons who have acquired naturalisation. Social benefits are not paid if a person receives a benefit for the same purpose from a foreign country. The fact that a person was sent to liquidation work from Estonia and that he or she is either a stateless person or a naturalised person at the time of applying for the allowance. As has been said, it must not receive the same type of support from a foreign country. In order to apply for the grant, the person submits an application for the grant and documents proving that he or she was sent to the liquidation work from Estonia, as well as a document certifying his or her stay in Estonia. If a person does not have a document certifying his or her participation in the winding-up work, he or she may refer to the Office for Defence Resources. By 1 November, however, the Office of Defence Resources will hand these documents over to the State Archives, which will continue to issue them. These documents may also be in the former workplaces. In some cases, former jobs have also made relevant entries in the work books. This provision of the draft will enter into force on 1 April 2018, as it also requires IT work to be carried out. The entry into force of the draft will increase the total public expenditure of EUR 756340. For persons who are repressed and treated as repressed, the cost is EUR 396340, and this social allowance for 1400 people is approximately EUR 322000. One-off IT system development and administration costs of EUR 38000 will be added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U266	The first question is put to the Minister by Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U267	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Reading this bill, it turns out that those receiving support from a foreign country are persons associated with Chernobyl. Perhaps you will enlighten us on how many such people are in Estonia? And why don't you tell me a little bit about these sums? What is the amount of the grant for those receiving support from abroad?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U268	Thank you. Since this is foreign subsidies, we do not have an accurate overview of it. It is well known that the Russian state is paying this support to its citizens. But usually non-citizens who live here with a permanent residence permit, the owners of the so-called grey passport, usually do not receive this support, and the citizens of Estonia probably do not. We do not have a very precise overview of this, but the fact that foreign citizens are paid this grant is known.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U269	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U270	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will continue to ask for proof to be provided in order to receive this support, but neither the draft text nor the explanatory memorandum can read who will have to submit it. Secondly, this application must be accompanied by proof that a person does not receive support for the same purpose from a foreign country. How will that be proved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U271	Thank you. If this allowance is applied for, of course, that application must be submitted by the creditor himself. This is a one-time application, the person does this procedure, submits documents and in the following years he or she will receive support automatically. How does he prove that he does not receive this allowance from a foreign country? Apparently, this form has a cell where it can confirm that it does not receive such support. That's how he's gonna make a statement. This is his own-handed confirmation and, should it appear later that he has made false declarations, it is possible to recover the grant from him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U272	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U273	Thank you. stateless persons living in Estonia are entitled to this allowance because, as a general rule, foreign countries do not pay them this allowance, I will read in the explanatory memorandum. Why should we pay support to persons who have not committed themselves to Estonia, who have not taken Estonian citizenship? The second question is that they must prove by their signature that they do not receive this support from abroad. You failed to answer the question of how you intend to verify that a person is not making false statements. Russia does not submit these lists to us. I'm still asking you to answer it, not talk round! Then it has been said that if a person wishes to receive Estonian social security benefits, he or she must stop paying social security benefits from abroad. Why should Estonia assume these obligations when these people receive support from the country that occupied us and who has to take responsibility for this disaster? Why must we assume such financial obligations? Do we have too much money or what?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U274	Thank you for these three questions. I'll try to answer them in turn. The question was how a person can prove his/her involvement and whether his/her assurance is correct. We still assume that if people apply for one or the other support, they will provide us with the right data. That's why they need to sign this form. As has been said, in the future, it may appear that some of these assurances are wrong, and then it will be possible to recover the grant. However, it is generally known that stateless persons do not receive this support. If anyone can, it's different. The question was also why the Estonian state should pay support to people who have not applied for Estonian citizenship. I dare say that these people have not chosen another nationality; they are simply stateless persons. So far, they have had to contact the local government, as this support is also intended to alleviate or eliminate any damage to their health. At the moment, they often ask the local government. Now we are reducing this burden on local governments. You referred to the country that occupied us, but the foreign country may also be another country that pays the same support to someone. So we might not limit ourselves to this kind of restriction. However, as has been said, this support is not paid to foreigners and the important fact is that people have been sent to liquidate the damage from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U275	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U276	Thank you. Good minister! This allowance is also intended for stateless persons. Doesn't such a thing cause people to have another reason not to pursue Estonian citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U277	As I said, this support is also granted to persons who have obtained naturalisation. In this sense, the law treats people the same way by granting this support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U278	Henn Põllaas, second minute question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U279	Thank you. However, you failed to reply how the Estonian state can verify that no false information is presented. I understand from your answer that it is not to be controlled. The second question was that if a person who receives this support from abroad wants it to be paid by Estonia, that is how it will be done. You did not answer why Estonia should assume such obligations. And third, you claimed it wouldn't be paid to foreigners. But a stateless person is a foreigner. You also argued that the new regulation would reduce the burden on local authorities. Does this mean, then, that people who receive this support will no longer be able to contact the local government or, if they do, will no longer be granted support there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U280	Thank you. I lost count. How many questions were there? But I'm gonna answer some of them, and if you don't answer any of them, I'm sure your groupmates will help you on the line. There was a question of how we control it. It is true that we may not be able to control foreign subsidies until the end. We are now generally aware of the circle of people who are receiving support from Russia. These are Russian citizens, not stateless persons. You said they were foreigners. Yes, they are not Estonian citizens, but they are not foreign citizens either. We will not pay this new support to foreign citizens. As regards the question of whether local authorities are not going to pay those people the benefits they are going to ask for, I cannot rule that out. Currently, many local authorities pay additional subsidies to those who have been repressed. This is the right of the local government and it may continue to do so, but we are expected to take some of the burden away from the local government. The way the local government behaves is still his own decision. I'll come back once more to this check-in on how we can control it. It is clear that we have a relatively limited chance of doing so. We have certain documents and we can check them to see if the person meets the relevant requirements. But as has been said, there is also the possibility of ex post verification. And there is also a possibility that we will be informed of possible violations. Social supervision usually works quite well on such issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U281	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U282	Thank you, Minister, for this very good presentation and very good draft. I had this question when I listened to my colleagues. All people, including non-citizens who live and work in the Republic of Estonia, mostly submit a tax return where all their income is recorded. Is this question of control not resolved by the fact that our tax authorities monitor people's income and, if there is any doubt that someone has some hidden income, then the tax authorities have control mechanisms?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U283	Thank you. This may be one option, but if a person does not have a direct reason to file a tax return, he will not. Maybe he won't make any money. But, as I said, social control is always quite important in the payment of all kinds of subsidies and produces good results. At the same time, the first paragraph of the bill has received less attention. I think that all of us in this Chamber could rejoice that the support of the repressed is growing, that this support, which has remained the same for ten years, can be slightly raised according to this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U284	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U285	Thank you. I'll come back to this question of control. You said that our control options are relatively limited. Yes, it is. When paying this support, it is very important to know at least one thing, namely who the people who were sent from Estonia to the disaster area. Do we have at least these people that we know exactly, and can this circle be further improved? Perhaps this evidence can also be falsified and, on the basis of these falsified evidence, applied for support from abroad, for example, as an alien?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U286	Thank you. Obviously, we agree that it is sometimes possible to do so if there is a great desire to forge something. Often, however, counterfeits are discovered. And the question is whether it makes sense for this one-off support a year to start making such counterfeits. I doubt it! But this proof is undoubtedly needed that the person has lived in Estonia at that time, and I think it may not be easy to forge this proof. You asked if we knew all these people. We may not all know, perhaps not everyone has had to report themselves to the state. Yes, the Chernobyl Society generally knows these people, they have their own lists, but, of course, we cannot be sure that some individuals have not turned themselves in there. He just didn't think it was necessary. But whether a person lived and worked in Estonia when he was sent there is verifiable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U287	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U288	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, At the moment, this bill understands that if the owner of the grey passport receives this support from Russia and writes a statement to that effect, it will be paid by the Estonian state and Russia will no longer do so. Why should the Estonian state still pay? Let this person get that money from Russia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U289	Thank you. I repeat, as we know, stateless persons do not receive this support from abroad. But in order to eliminate this contradiction in the bud, this exclusion is also included here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U290	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Mr Dmitri Dmitriev, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U291	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was presented by the Minister of Social Protection at the extraordinary session of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, which took place on Monday, 2 October. In addition, Lidia Soontak, head of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited. Apart from the questions that have been heard in this Chamber today and to which the Minister for Social Protection has already answered, Jüri Jaanson asked why the support in the draft is expressed as a specific amount. The Minister of Social Protection explained that the direction is to decouple the various grants from the specific conversion mechanism. This is largely a matter of the state budget. In the meantime, some of the benefits were linked to the minimum wage. This practice has been decided to be used less. There were no more substantive questions. The decisions are as follows: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 October and that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 25 October at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint Mr Dmitri Dmitriev as rapporteur. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U292	There are no substantive questions for you either, Honourable Waitress! I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. Henn Põllaas on behalf of the EKRE, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U293	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, we all have reason to rejoice that the support of those who have been repressed by the occupying regime will be increased. This is not much compared to the increase in the cost of living and the increase in prices since the aid was introduced. So you could hope that the slope would be significantly higher. But it's definitely something that makes us all happy. These people deserve our support. But now the second issue in this draft: support for the people who have been sent to deal with the consequences of a nuclear disaster. There's a very big catch in it. We have asked a number of questions about this, but unfortunately I have to say that no specific answers were received from the Minister. It's just twirling and twilight. Obviously, no specific honest answer can be given. Indeed, why should the Estonian state commit itself to the state that occupied us, who should be responsible for all these acts, I would say, even crimes against humanity? Why should we pay foreigners? The Minister claimed that stateless persons are not foreigners. Of course they are! Everyone who does not have Estonian citizenship is foreign. We didn't get an answer to that question. Nor did we receive an answer to the question of how it is checked that these people are not receiving this support from anywhere else, from other countries. The Minister did say that there could be others besides Russia. Actually, it's not! How is it checked that a person who has demonstrated by his signature that he does not receive support from Russia does not cheat? We didn't get any answers to that. And there's the third thing that makes me so surprised. The explanatory memorandum states that if a person receives support from abroad and wishes Estonia to pay for it, then Estonia will. I'm sorry! Perhaps we will also take over some sort of wage payments and other subsidies, all that Russia is paying? We are kind to take care of all of them ourselves, to tear down our entire state budget to some kind of subsidies, taking over the responsibilities of other countries! That's absurd! You can never agree to this. Of course, people who have suffered, whose health has been damaged deserve support. However, this cannot be done as by distributing subsidies from a helicopter, just as a decoy meal containing a vaccine against rabies is being spread all over Estonia. This is not because we are assuming the responsibilities of other countries, simply because someone wants the Estonian state to pay him this money instead of Russia. I'm pretty speechless. Are there really people in the ministry and government who have no clear thinking ability at all? Don't they understand that this support costs? Do they think we have enough money to spread it? This is a perfectly clear legal flaw that does not need to come to the Riigikogu, any pretty sign or slogan trying to hide it behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U294	Please, on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group, Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U295	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, who are you here? I don't want to talk much about this bill. I am delighted that the support of the repressed will be increased, but I want to talk about all the five drafts together. As my colleague Krista Aru has said, and as we have all pointed out, all five drafts have been drafted without the intention of being developed, which is a very bad practice. They're made somewhere out of nowhere, quietly turned up in the ministry. Some things have been said in public, but, let's say, it's been done so that there's an article, there's a story, there's been some discussion, but there hasn't been any serious and decent involvement. Moreover, there is, as far as I know, no involvement of employers in the decision on family benefits, even though this is going to have a very direct impact on them. At every turn, there is a rush to these drafts. In particular, haste seems to indicate that their quality is poor. The explanatory notes are, in part, a depressing, clean glitch. Some places in the draft explanatory notes are the opposite, there are serious mistakes inside. Some things have been left unexplained, there are issues where it has been said that this point is inside, but why it is inside, that justification is missing. The tests are insane. From the text they're like reading and reading some places, but you don't understand. I can sometimes figure out what you want to say with one sentence or another, but there are places in these explanatory notes that you read and read, but even if you want to do the best you can't figure out what they want to say. These things happen when you pick up and make a copy and paste all the time, delete something and write something more. Let's just say that the explanatory statement of a few drafts is such that if I had to come to the Riigikogu with this sort of thing, I would have been embarrassed. So it looks like a rush. What is very bad is that there are no alternatives to many fundamental solutions, so that we can consider what options are then possible. And we don't know why one or the other option was chosen. It is really sad that neither minister was often able to justify to us why one or the other solution was chosen. Yeah, we'll take care of these things in the Social Affairs Committee. I very much hope that we will have substantive discussions there, that we will have enough time to do so and that we will not rush there. These are fundamental changes that will affect our daily lives much, and not just 101 people in this hall, but throughout Estonia. I always consider quality, not quick work, to be important in such matters. I really hope that, if our discussions require involvement, we, as well as the coalition, will have the courage to push these drafts into the next year, so that the new regulation is not so rigidly stuck in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U296	Dmitri Dmitriev, on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U297	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! For years, the Estonian Central Party has been talking about ensuring equal rights for all veterans who participated in the settlement of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. We have submitted drafts, we have also addressed the Chancellor of Justice. The representative of the EKRE Group accused the government here of initiating this bill. I would probably agree with some of my colleagues to share the blame, because we too participated in the preparation of the draft. Currently, the regulation concerning Chernobyl veterans is enshrined in the Act on the person repressed by the occupation regimes. According to the current law, those who were subjected to radiation as a test subject in connection with the detonation of a nuclear bomb or were forced into a nuclear disaster area to deal with the consequences of the disaster are also illegally repressed. However, certain rights are limited to those whose parents were Estonian citizens as of June 16, 1940 or non-citizens legally residing in Estonia. Such regulation has created a situation where some of the current Estonian citizens have lost their support. This fact has been brought to the attention for years by the Estonian Chernobyl Society, who is involved in the procedure of this draft. The number of people sent from Estonia to the Chernobyl disaster area is considerably less than 3000 today. However, these are the people who have prevented a disaster of very wide scale and high environmental impact in Europe. They are constantly forced to address their health problems, and the EUR 230 social support will be of great help to them. I am really glad that the government coalition came to the view that the Chernobyl veterans, who have received Estonian citizenship later in the naturalisation procedure, as well as persons of undefined citizenship, must also receive equal social support. The draft before you will certainly reduce injustice and improve the situation of people who have ever been forced into the Chernobyl nuclear disaster area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U298	Please, Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U299	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I only came here to talk about some inaccuracies and perhaps misinterpretations. In the Act on the person repressed by occupation regimes, everything remains unchanged under Bill 518 except that this support will increase from EUR 192 to 230. Now we will continue to talk about the amendment of the Social Welfare Act. The amendment means that one type of support comes into the Social Welfare Act: social support for people who have been forced to deal with the consequences of a nuclear disaster. All benefits in the form of social benefits are paid by the local government at the place of residence. § 3 of the General Part of the Social Code Act "The scope of the Social Code' states that the rights and obligations of an Estonian citizen living in Estonia, a foreigner living in Estonia on the basis of a long-term resident's residence permit or permanent right of residence, and a foreigner living in Estonia on the basis of a temporary residence permit or temporary right of residence. These are the principles on the basis of which different types of social benefit are paid, such as the income support given as an example above. This is by no means a matter of interfering with the law of a person who has been repressed by the occupying regimes, and it has in no way been improved. Only the amount of aid has been changed, increasing to EUR 230 per year. The Social Welfare Act grants this right to those who apply and prove by certain documents that they are entitled to this social benefit. I just wanted to explain to you what the Social Welfare Act says about such support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U300	The negotiations have been partly concluded, but the Minister wanted to speak again. § 71 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows this to happen in every way. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U301	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to make two clarifications, as well as one opinion, to reassure colleagues in the corner of the Chamber. Foreign citizens will not receive any new support due to these changes. That's not the plan, and they're not going to get it! Next, it is known to us that foreign citizens receive such benefits and Estonia has no intention of accepting payment obligations from any foreign country. That's not the plan, and that's not what we're doing! Those were two comments. The third line may slightly exceed my powers as a minister, because the good members of the Riigikogu are, of course, free in their opinions, but I would say that it is not quite appropriate to compare those responsible for the consequences of a nuclear disaster with the rabies foxes. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U302	I give the floor to Henn Põllea. Your name was not mentioned, but basically you have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U303	Thank you. I've never compared the victims of a nuclear disaster to the foxes. It was just a figurative figure, a comparison of how money is being dropped and wasted. But I'd like to know who's still lying. Because I read directly from this explanatory memorandum: 'If a person wishes to receive Estonian social security, he or she must stop paying social security benefits from abroad. ' That means directly that a stateless person receiving support from a foreign country, or Russia, which we are talking about, can apply for it to be paid by Estonia instead of Russia. And the minister says it's not like that. Here's the black in white. Who then lies: the author of the explanatory memorandum or the minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U304	Before I said that the negotiations were partly concluded. Aivar Chef proves it's true. Negotiations are still ongoing. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U305	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say that these are actually very good drafts. If anyone wants to make a criticism, it is always possible to make a criticism of everything. I wasn't planning on speaking today, but I'm just sorry if I have to criticize when I'm in the opposition. But look, guys, for today! I think today is a good day, because very good drafts have come from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee. Most of these things are in the best interest of our own people. If anyone thinks the drugs are cheap and we don't need any drug compensation, I suggest you go to the field. And communicate! It is not just a matter of the elderly; it is also a matter of young families. My goddaughter has a little boy at home who's sick all the time. The cross-daughter receives maternity allowance, but the kindergarten worker receives maternity allowance, not the maternity allowance of a member of the Riigikogu. Any additional support is therefore very good. When we talk about the repressed, they are mostly elderly people who have suffered one, two or three throughout their lives. But if we're talking here today about the men who were supposed to go to Chernobyl, I can tell you a story about it. After the disaster, a train from the Jõgeva railway station left for Chernobyl at 7 a.m., came to my door as well. I was just lucky I felt something wrong at the time, and I said that Aivari wasn't home, I'm his brother. The man at the door didn't know if I was Aivar or Thomas. And I got away. But those men who didn't get away... There is also a working man in my own company who went to Chernobyl. We have to respect these men. The majority of those who receive this support thanks to this bill, which I hope will become a law in the near future, are people who live here in Estonia, they work here and pay taxes here. I thank you very much for the good drafts. Everything can always be done better, and that is why there is an intermediate period between the first and second readings in the Commission when the drafts are discussed and the proposals for improvement are analysed. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-11_U306	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 518. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 518 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Thank you for the discussions and, most importantly, for the decisions you have made. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00 in this very hall. Closure of the sitting at 6.44 p.m.
