ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 17th working week Thursday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Do colleagues want to hand over drafts or enquiries? No, it's not. In that case, we'll do a presence check. 71 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 30.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U2	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item is the review of the uniform application of judicial order, justice and law. I am pleased to ask for a presentation by Priit Pikamäe, President of the Supreme Court. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! In today's presentation, I will focus on ways to improve the system of protection of fundamental rights. Although, in the context of an individual case, the task of protecting fundamental rights lies with the judicial system, other areas of public authority also have specific tasks in it. § 14 of the Constitution unambiguously expresses this by providing that the guarantee of rights and freedoms is the responsibility of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities and local authorities. As Estonia is a parliamentary state, the task of designing a legal order that respects fundamental rights lies primarily with the Riigikogu. Although Estonia's system of protection of fundamental rights can be considered to be working well, this does not mean that it cannot be improved further. In saying this, I am thinking in particular of cooperation between the judiciary and Parliament in preventing possible violations of fundamental rights. While the protection of fundamental rights provided by the judiciary acts primarily as a response to an infringement that has already occurred, Parliament has considerably wider opportunities to act proactively. In doing so, the intervention of the parliament needs not only the problems that the Supreme Court has referred to in constitutional monitoring practice, but also those that international organisations have referred to, in particular the European Court of Human Rights. I will give just a few examples of urgent issues that I believe would need to be dealt with urgently at the level of the legislator. First of all, I would like to draw the Riigikogu's attention to the need to clarify the detention law following the decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 19 January 2016. It stated that Estonia had violated the requirements of Article 10 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. More specifically, this resolution concerns the right of prisoners to access some of the Internet sites, i.e. the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice's website. The current Incarceration Act (§ 311) prohibits inmates from using the Internet, with the exception of official legal databases and the case-law register. The use of other Internet sites is not permitted under the Prison Act. By decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 7 December 2009, such regulation was considered constitutional. On 19 January 2016, however, the European Court of Human Rights found that by denying prisoners access to the website of the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian state has, in an unnecessary way, restricted the right of prisoners to information. At the time of this presentation, i.e. one and a half years after the decision of the European Court of Human Rights, this provision of the Prison Act remains unchanged and, as the speaker is aware, there is no corresponding draft in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. In substance, this means that the detention law is still waiting to be brought into line with the requirements of the Convention. It is true that in the proceedings of the Supreme Court there is at present also a case for revising the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 7 December 2009, but regardless of its outcome, the possibility for the judicial authority to remedy the alleged infringement is limited to Estonia. This is precisely because, in the light of the motives of the European Court of Human Rights judgment, it cannot be ruled out that there may be other websites for which the right of access of detainees could be justified. In order to avoid that courts should start assessing on a web-site basis whether access to one page or another should be allowed, this issue should be re-examined in its entirety. When choosing a specific solution, security considerations, i.e. the use of the Internet in any way in prison, must not create security risks at the place of detention or allow new crimes to be committed, must not be forgotten either. The right to imprisonment is another issue that awaits the decision of Parliament, namely the right to vote for detainees. Previous Chairman of the Supreme Court Märt Rask drew the Riigikogu's attention to this in a presentation held in spring 2012. According to § 58 of the Constitution, the participation of Estonian citizens who have been convicted in court and are in detention places may be restricted. As we know, the right to vote for those currently detained at law level has been resolved in such a way that the participation of detainees in referendums, elections to the Riigikogu and the European Parliament, as well as elections to local government councils, is excluded. Although in the wording of minor nuanced differences, all the above-mentioned electoral and voting laws provide that the person who has been convicted of a criminal offence and is serving a prison sentence is not to take part in the vote. The removal of persons serving prison sentences from voting serves primarily the purpose of the legitimacy of the state. There is no doubt that such a target is legitimate in constitutional terms, all the more so since § 58 of the Constitution itself expressly allows the participation of detainees to be restricted. On the other hand, the international standards with which we are bound must also be taken into account when shaping Estonia's legal order. In particular, when interpreting Article 3 of the First Additional Protocol to the Convention, the European Court of Human Rights has taken the view that the automatic prohibition of voting rights applicable to all detainees cannot be considered proportionate. Therefore, the Constitutional Review College of the Supreme Court has repeatedly drawn the attention of the Riigikogu to the fact that norms that absolutely exclude the participation of persons in prison may be contrary to § 57 of the Constitution in conjunction with § 11, as they must be interpreted in the light of the first Additional Protocol to the Convention. The fact that the Supreme Court has not been able to detect this loss in a procedural manner in a number of cases concerning this issue does not mean that this problem does not exist. Bearing in mind that the next Riigikogu elections are due in spring 2019, this is the right time to discuss the solutions to this issue. Unlike several other countries in Europe, whose constitution expressly prohibits the right to vote of detainees, the wording of § 58 of the Estonian Constitution itself allows the practice of implementing the Convention to be followed without changing the Constitution itself. To conclude this sub-topic, I would like to draw Parliament's attention to another issue that has been only partly resolved so far in the area of compliance with our Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. In 2011 the Supreme Court made several important decisions in the constitutional review procedure, in which the anti-constitutional situation was established in the parts of the system of state liability in force at the time, which regulated compensation for damage caused by the offence procedure. In order to remedy these deficiencies, the Riigikogu adopted on 5 November 2014 a separate law on compensation for damage caused by an offence procedure, which entered into force on 1 May 2015. That law regulates exhaustively the cases in which a person has the right to claim compensation from the State for any damage caused to him by the person acting on the offence. This may consist, for example, of the damage suffered by a person subject to proceedings because of his detention, arrest, seizure of his property, as well as unreasonable length of proceedings. Violation of the requirement of a reasonable period of procedure as an infringement of Article 6 of the ECHR has also been the subject of several judgments of the European Court of Human Rights condemning Estonia. If the law on damages in criminal proceedings brings criminal and misdemeanour law into line with the requirements of the Constitution and the Convention, unfortunately, there are still no grounds in both civil and administrative proceedings to allow the persons concerned in these proceedings to claim compensation for damage caused during an unreasonable period of proceedings. Since the current regulation of the State Liability Act does not cover the cases described above, an effective way out can only be to adequately extend the solutions already positiveed in the Damage Compensation Act to civil and administrative proceedings. Whether to amend the relevant laws on legal proceedings separately or to establish a single comprehensive regulation within the framework of the State Liability Act is the subject of separate discussions. Following these legislative steps, our system of legal proceedings can be considered updated in terms of legal remedies that involve unreasonable length of time. While I have so far addressed the needs of changing the legal order, which are mainly due to the fulfilment of Estonia's international obligations, please allow me to focus on some of the problems of the national constitutional review procedure. At the beginning of my presentation, I noted that our system of protection of fundamental rights can be considered to be working well. Nevertheless, human creation does not seem to have anything that could not be made even more perfect. The plan of state reform approved by the Government of the Republic includes, among other things, the idea of analysing the current constitutional oversight system of judicial proceedings. I can only welcome this initiative. Let's start with the numbers. The statistics on cases examined by the Supreme Court under constitutional review clearly show a decrease in the role of the abstract norm control compared to the specific control of norms. Thus the President of the Republic and the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic with the authority to initiate an abstract norm check have visited the Supreme Court two and seventeen times in the last ten years, i.e. the years 2006 to 2016 respectively. At that time, the Supreme Court examined the applications of local government councils in eighteen cases. During the same period, however, the Supreme Court settled 193 constitutional monitoring cases initiated by the courts. Thus, our constitutional review procedure is unequivocally dominated by a specific regulation initiated by the courts. In my 2014 parliamentary report, I found that for this reason the entire case law of constitutional review of the Supreme Court is also a facet of the problems experienced by the judicial system, focusing mainly on the chapter of the Constitution's fundamental rights, freedoms and obligations. It is safe to resimulate that a very large number of constitutional disputes brought by the courts are devoted to questions arising from the laws of court proceedings. The decisions of the Supreme Court have comprehensively dealt with the issues of the right to appeal and appeal, including the limitations of both of them, such as the constitutional limits of the amount of court fees. Other parts of the constitution have been quite well developed in the municipality's self-regulation rights, thanks to the continued activity of local government councils. On the other hand, the proportion of case law in other parts of the Constitution is very low, which means that the content of these rules has not yet been opened in isolation. In view of the trends in judicial proceedings regarding the aforementioned constitutional review, I still believe that Parliament could consider extending the circle of persons with the authority to initiate an abstract review of the rules. Thus, for example, our legal order still lacks the 'group appeal institute' or the right of a minority of the parliament to refer to the Supreme Court under constitutional review. This is an instrument recognised in many European countries, which acts as a 'valve' in a situation where there are insurmountable differences between the majority of Parliament and the minority. Since such a complaint can only concern a valid law, it cannot be seen as an obstacle to the will of the parliamentary majority. Outside the abstract control of the rules, the Constitutional Review Courts Act certainly deserves to be analysed in the light of preventive remedies for breach of the fundamental right. In the existing procedural paradigm, the question of the constitutionality of the applicable law can be raised before the court within the framework of an individual case. This requires, on the one hand, that subjective rights have already been violated and, on the other hand, that appropriate and effective legal proceedings are in place to protect this right. If, as a general rule, the approach described operates smoothly, in some cases it may not provide sufficient legal protection. Firstly, in order to protect its subjective rights, it is not possible to bring a case if the act that might cause an imminent violation of fundamental rights has not yet entered into force. Secondly, real life in its diversity can give birth to a case that has not been brought to the law of legal proceedings and for which there has therefore not been a judicial procedure. For these reasons, in the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 17 March 2003, Articles 13, 14 and 15 of the Constitution deduced everyone's right to appeal individually to the Supreme Court if the person has no other effective opportunity to exercise the right to appeal to the court. In essence, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court has taken the view in this decision that the fundamental right of recourse to the court must also include the right to challenge the constitutionality of the legislative act, even if there is no specific procedure for resolving this dispute in the legal order. The Supreme Court can refuse to deal with a complaint only if the appellant has at his disposal another effective means of defending his rights in court. To date, the Supreme Court has examined individual complaints on this basis on a total of 39 occasions, the complaint being satisfied twice. As a matter of fact, the case law in this way has already supplemented the grounds for making an individual complaint expressly provided for in the Constitutional Review Courts Act. As you know, an individual complaint can be addressed directly to the Supreme Court in order to challenge the decision of the Riigikogu, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu or the President of the Republic, as well as the decision or act of the Riigikogu Election Committee. I am of the opinion that the Riigikogu could consider establishing a higher court practice of fifteen years soon as a positive right alongside the individual complaints that already exist. The fact that only two of all the complaints submitted directly to the Supreme Court to check the constitutionality of the legislative act are satisfied cannot conclude that the procedure in question does not deserve more detailed procedural rules. Their necessity cannot be determined on the basis of the final decisions of the proceedings. Leaving the complaint unchecked simply means that in the other cases the Supreme Court has had to direct the plaintiff to the courts by interpreting the law in force. As this has mostly succeeded, our legal order is confirmed by its strength, but an unexpected gap can never be ruled out. Thus, the possibility of making an individual appeal created by the practice of the Supreme Court is an extraordinary procedure, in some respects a so-called last straw procedure, which applies if the person does not really have any other way of defending his or her rights in court. The final statement brings us back to the beginning of this report. In particular, recourse to the European Court of Human Rights is only admissible once all national remedies for the protection of their rights have been exhausted. The principle of subsidiarity, which is now included in the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, places the primary protection of fundamental rights on the Member States. Legalisation of individual appeal as recognised in the practice of the Supreme Court would also be an additional buffer to prevent complaints from Estonia to the human rights court in a situation where prevention of violations is within the power of our judicial system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U4	Thanks to the waitress! You have a lot of questions. But before we go to the questions, I will briefly present the procedure for dealing with this item. Every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask an oral question, and then there will be negotiations, where representatives of the political groups will get the floor. Please, the first question is the word Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U5	Thank you very much. Mr President of the Supreme Court, thank you for this report, in which you drew attention to the issues that need to be resolved urgently. You mentioned a long period of proceedings. But please tell me, which is why more than 80% of the defendants choose a settlement procedure. This is a huge percentage compared to other countries. We can see that Estonia has one of the highest percentages of arrested persons in the European Union at all. It is very easy to arrest and detain people for a certain time, and people are really easily deprived of their freedom. Is it not that this long time of arrest is being used to influence a person to choose a settlement procedure so that he can plead guilty and the court should not analyse anything in substance? This reduces the work of the courts and is, in my opinion, a simplification.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U6	Thank you for that question. I'll start at the end of the question. Statistics do not confirm that the number of arrested persons and the duration of the arrest will be prolonged. Quite the opposite. It was only last week that the Ministry of Justice presented an analysis to the Court of Justice Advisory Board, which was prepared recently, following the entry into force of the amendments made by Parliament to the Code of Criminal Procedure and other laws. This is the so-called 'fundamental rights package' in the criminal process that was adopted by Parliament and which significantly strengthens the restriction of fundamental rights in the criminal process. The result of the analysis clearly shows that, on the one hand, we have had a steady downward trend in crime as a whole in recent years, but, on the other hand, that the number of arrests and the duration of arrests are clearly declining. Therefore, the argument that the number of arrests has increased and the duration has increased cannot be accepted in any way. As far as the settlement procedure is concerned, yes, 80% is definitely a high percentage. On the other hand, the broadest possible application of alternative procedures in criminal proceedings was, at the time, an end in itself in reforming the Criminal Procedure Act. While a new Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted in 2004, one of its targets was to avoid a costly general procedure for the State and to support it when the parties reach an agreement on the settlement of the case in some other way. In this sense, our criminal proceedings now really are more similar to Anglo-American criminal proceedings, where even the majority of the cases are resolved through settlement procedures, at least 90%. Let's look at the wider picture of Western Europe. This same Anglo-American trend in criminal proceedings is becoming increasingly widespread in the countries of continental Europe. The settlement procedure has been regularised in more and more countries. This is a clear trend in the criminal process, such a general, I would even say, in a sense, a global trend that cannot be fought by itself. This is, however, largely due to the lack of resources allocated to criminal proceedings. However, I would like to stress clearly that the settlement procedure does not mean that the rights of accused persons are less protected than in the general procedure. The Estonian criminal process has, firstly, been structured in the sense of the settlement procedure in such a way that the court does not participate in the conclusion of the penalty agreement. The Court does not take part in this, which means that the court will remain fully free to assess the agreement concluded between the parties at a later stage and to determine whether it is compatible with the will of the parties. This is already a very strong argument in favour of preventing possible abuses. Secondly, the accused certainly does not participate in the settlement procedure alone. The mandatory agreement procedure of the lawyer is another instrument which must ensure that the rights of the accused are protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U7	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear President of the Supreme Court! In your report, you mentioned a relatively new matter to me personally at the Institute of Complaints by the Group. Can you explain the contents of this, please? How does this fit in with Parliament's right of self-regulation, and what could this lead to?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U9	Thank you for this question. Actually, I didn't mention it for the first time today. In my parliamentary report in 2014, when speaking about statistics on the constitutional review procedure, I drew Parliament's attention to the fact that this possibility is being used in many Western European countries, but we still have it unused. No questions were asked me on the subject at the time. The fact that they're asking today shows that maybe some kind of idea has gotten germinated somewhere. But, broadly speaking, what I want to say is that this is, of course, in the great sense, Parliament's right of self-regulation, i.e. how Parliament internally wants to shape the cooperation between the opposition and the coalition. There are many ways to do this. One of the possibilities, which is particularly acute with regard to the problems that divide the opposition and coalition, is in use in several Western European countries, namely the right of a minority of Parliament to address the constitutional court of the country. That means two things. Firstly, that a minority in Parliament must formulate the problem legally, it must bring it to the level of the Constitution and show what, in its opinion, possible contradiction with the Constitution is. Secondly, this appeal must be approved by some part of the minority in Parliament. There are, of course, two possibilities here: either to grant this right to each political group or to extend it to the opposition in Parliament in a way that calls for a cross-groups approach. These are all details that can be discussed. My task is simply to point out that we do not yet have the opportunity that exists in other countries and to initiate a discussion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U10	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U11	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! As a follow-up to the previous observation, I have such a comment. The Chancellor of Justice has raised the issue of constitutional interference with the transfer of immovable property in nature conservation areas, but the government has decided that it will not give money, and citizens will still have eight to nine years of trial. As ambassadors, especially in opposition, we now have nothing left over. But here's my question. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, during the debate on tax fraud and after discussing the issue of persons who have been driving repeatedly while intoxicated, the problem is that there is little case law, for example, for practitioners who collect material and try to find good cases. Do you think there is a problem here, and if you think there is a problem here, have you taken any steps to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U12	Thank you for this question. I understand your question in such a way that you come to see whether the relevant case law is sufficiently accessible to all those who deal with it. I think the internship is available. Information systems that increasingly penetrate all spheres of life are also widely used in the judicial system and can be found automated in one field or another. Moreover, the judgments establishing the precedent of the Supreme Court are all published on the page of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court also started publishing periodic reviews of its most important decisions quite recently. So even for those who do not even want to go through all the decisions of the College for years, a brief summary of the most important solutions is available. As far as the lack of practice is concerned, there is relatively little that can be done by the courts here. The case-law is still formed by the fact that a court is seised and, if it gives a decision that is not accepted, it will be challenged before a higher court if necessary. The case law arises as a result of the functioning of the judicial system and, at the final stage, the Supreme Court gives the precedent to one or the other decision. So the courts themselves have very few opportunities to contribute here, because the court itself can never launch a case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U13	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U14	Thank you. It is remembered that in the spring there was one such case when the Tallinn Circuit Court registered a homomarriage in Sweden, based on the inviolable or non-existent cohabitation law, in breach of our marriage law. It has to be said that the Tallinn Administrative Court and the county government had refused to register this homosexual marriage on the basis of Estonian law. The situation is now that the Tallinn Circuit Court actually took over the powers of the legislator, violated the principle of separation of powers and began to fill Estonia's legal space, creating a precedent that could have quite sad consequences. I am interested in your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U15	Thank you for this question. First of all, I must remain somewhat reserved, because the dispute on this issue is still ongoing, the main issue is currently being examined by the Supreme Court, and as a judge, I certainly cannot comment on any pending matter. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the small inaccuracies that have occurred in the matter. If we are still talking about the same case, I must say that the court in this case, which we are probably both referring to, did not implement the cohabitation law, but only decided whether a marriage between same-sex persons can be entered in the Estonian population register, which is concluded in a foreign country where same-sex marriage is recognised. The question was simply whether and what data can be entered into the Estonian population register. The Population Register Act provides, in principle, that a person has the right to require the state to ensure that the information on him or her in the Register is correct. That was at the heart of the argument. In order to resolve this dispute, the court first applied the Private International Law Act, which regulates the question whether and to what extent the law in force in a foreign country can be applied in Estonia. The Private International Law Act is already a pretty old legal instrument in the Estonian legal order; it dates from the beginning of the 2000s, or last decade. Furthermore, I certainly do not agree with the statement in the question that the Court has arbitrarily begun to establish a right and violated the principle of separation of powers. I want to say that the substance of justice is to say what is the exact content of the law in a particular case. That is the task of the court. I don't see that the court is wrong about this principle. The court must rule on a specific case brought before it and, as he has said and says now, one of the famous provisions of the French code civil: it must do so even if there is no legal provision in force for the legal relationship in question, even then the court has an obligation to settle the dispute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U16	Andrei Novikov.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At some point, there was a big discussion in the public about the limits of judicial activity. One of the groups represented here was not particularly satisfied with this. That is what the questioner referred to. In the meantime, the explanatory memorandum to the draft law stated that the interpretation of the law would be more precise in the course of judicial practice, which I consider to be nonsense, but there were such explanatory notes. Has the legislator acted irresponsibly in any way, or could anything be changed in cooperation between the legislator and the Court? How do you assess the balance or proportion of judicial activity in the current case-law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U18	Thank you for your question. I broadly believe that the Estonian courts are rather conservative, not so active. There is a question of what to mean by judicial activism at all. This issue is also quite controversial in law; the boundaries are not very clear here. Broadly speaking, when a court takes a stand on a matter which the parties have not brought before it, it resolves something beyond the limits of the dispute, it says more than a particular case requires. There are very few situations in the Estonian judicial system that are meant by activism. I would say that Estonian courts are very and very conservative in the application of law. However, the extent to which the court has the discretion to apply a single rule of law is up to Parliament. The more precise the rule, the more regulatory it is, the less discretion of the court to mark the limits of the rule. Of course, there are no quite inexplicable laws. This is already due to semiotic patterns that, within certain limits, each sentence is subject to interpretation, and the same applies to legislation. However, the more regulated the area of law, the less the court has the opportunity to interpret. Of course, if the legislator creates rules that give the courts a wide discretion, a margin of discretion, then the legislator assumes that it is not in a position to foresee all individual issues, even more to regulate their solutions. With such discretionary rules, the court has a greater right of furnishing. Much depends on how Parliament regulates a specific area of law, what standards it sets, how much it leaves to the courts to do and how much it says it does not. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U19	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U20	Thank you, high courtman. I will begin by observing the idea of the Constitutional Court in one form or another. I think that its popularity is growing because we have had good lawyers who have done a good job in politics, but then have proved to be unelected, and there are probably also those good lawyers who are currently in politics and maybe think that they will not be re-elected. As their number increases, the idea of the Constitutional Court will also become more popular. Does the High President of the Supreme Court not have the fear that if we talk about the Supreme Court and realize that it is right, there may be a risk that politics and justice will be confused? We're going to create a unit where these things aren't so clean anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U21	Thank you for this question. I'll start at the end. I have also said before, and I agree today that I do not believe that there is a need for a separate constitutional court in Estonia. That's what I always thought. However, there is a constitutional court in Estonia. After all, the Constitution clearly states that the Supreme Court is also the Constitutional Court. It's a question of what that little word "uniform" means. But it is clear that the function of the Constitutional Court is performed by the Supreme Court. Discussions on whether we have a constitutional court or whether we need it are, in the light of this provision of the Constitution, in my opinion, irrelevant. But I am, yes, still thinking that there is no need for a separate constitutional court. In my opinion, the same angle of approach also removes the fears that were contained in your question, perhaps as long as we still have one of those, if you wish, a higher court of the Scandinavian or Anglo-American type, the Supreme Court, which will resolve all the questions as Supreme Court, this question does not arise. After all, the prerequisite for choosing the Supreme Court as a member of the Supreme Court is specialization in some narrow area of law, which some of the Supreme Court colleges represent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U22	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U23	Mr. Tall Mountain! The question is about the urgent procedure for the order for payment. I have to admit, I don't know much about this because when I used to work here, it didn't exist yet. Can you tell me anything specific right now? There are still 30,000 such things per year, i.e. 2,500 things per month, and at least 1.5% of adult people get involved in such a procedure during the year. What are the results? How many of them are challenged in court, how many of them go on to the executives? Or can you say something I couldn't ask you right now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U24	Thank you for this question. I must admit that I do not have any more relevant statistics available at this time than the figures you have already mentioned. Indeed, the number of urgent proceedings for payment orders is high. It's stabilized over the last few years, and there's 30,000 things in the order of the year. In essence, it is a simplified form of civil procedure in which the court normally decides on the case from the content of the complaint. If one of the parties disagrees with this result, it will be able to bring an appeal, which means that the case will be examined in the course of the action. In that case, the decision taken under the urgency procedure of the order for payment shall not enter into force. But how many disputes do you have and how many solutions go into execution? I should ask the Legal Information Department of the Supreme Court and also the Ministry of Justice to take out this statistics. If you agree, I will be happy to send it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U25	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U26	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Good justice certainly requires well-written laws, but I think even more important are good judges. Here you must compete with the very high salaries of lawyers and other lawyers. How do you see and assess whether the level of the judges' salary is sufficient for the younger generation's lawyers to become a judge as well? If I am not mistaken, the courts have sent a letter to the Riigikogu, where they have expressed concern that very rigid and unchangeable wage regulation can become a problem at some point. Please describe the current situation with the judges.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U27	Thank you for this very important question. Yes, I remember that a few years ago, when I gave a presentation in this very Chamber, I expressed the view that the salaries of Estonian judges were competitive. But, unfortunately, time has moved on quickly, and the rise in the average wage, which in itself is a very welcome and positive phenomenon, has, in a sense, put pressure on the pay of judges. The salaries of judges have been viewed in Estonia for a long time, however, as a ratio to average wages. In the run-up to the economic crisis, i.e. before 2009, the grade 1 judge's salary was by law four times the average Estonian salary, the situation is no longer so rosy. Rather, we are talking about the income of the first instance judge on the average of three salaries. It must therefore be acknowledged that justice's pay is becoming a problem again in the short or medium term and that Parliament needs to take some action. As you rightly pointed out, the judicial system is competing for good lawyers, and we must always bear in mind, when talking about average wages, that this is only one indication. But in itself, courts are active in recruiting judges on a specific labour market for lawyers, which has their own pay scales. It must therefore be said that the situation is moving towards deterioration. In the past, I, and the Supreme Court as a whole, have drawn the attention of Parliament in its decisions to the need to take one small step and to correct the wage index contained in the Law on salaries of senior civil servants. There is a general understanding or consensus that it has failed in the current wording, that the basis for indexation is wrongly defined. If this correction were to be made, it would give the judges an indication that the pay conditions of judges, or judges, are an important issue for Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U28	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U29	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It was only recently in the Committee on Legal Affairs that we tried to get into the law of traffic, and that is where we got the clause on the shockingness of potential murderers, or serial drinkers. We made it this far, even though the opposition still fought 46 feet against it. Now we hear from the media that, in a particularly cruel way, the killer, the boy who tortured his father and finally drowned him, the court finally sentenced him to nine years in prison. Nine years! It's not 90, it's nine. Hence the question: does the opposition and the judicial system favour a mild attitude toward killers or potential killers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U30	Thank you. I certainly do not dare to take a position such as one or the other to favour a single or different policy of punishment. However, I say so much that I am absolutely convinced that the penalties that are understood in all cases are in line with the circumstances of the case and the scale of the guilty person's guilt. After all, in all legal proceedings, it is possible to check the legality of the sentence, which is why the state is always represented in the criminal proceedings through the prosecutor's office. If, in the opinion of the prosecutor, one or the other penalty applied by the court seems to deviate from the principle of guilt, he will always have the opportunity to appeal against it and ask for the question to be examined in a higher court until the Supreme Court. I think that this is a guarantee strong enough in itself to ensure that the sanctions that Estonian courts understand are in line with the principles laid down by the legislator in the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U31	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U32	Thank you. In your opinion, what is the greatest strength in the case of individual appeals, or in the case of the constitutional court, in order to carry out such reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U33	Thank you for this question. Of course, if we were to take this issue very widely, we could talk for a long time. But I understand that the question primarily concerned the issue of individual complaints derived from the practice of the Supreme Court. As I described in my report, it is a case law that has been established as an additional means of complaint created by life itself. This first decision made by the General Assembly of the Supreme Court in 2003 concerned one of the detainees. The Penal Code adopted in 2002 reduced the penalty imposed for his crime to the extent that the punishment imposed on him under the Criminal Code was no longer compatible with the Penal Code. When the Supreme Court analysed this complaint, it became clear that there were no complaints in the legal system at the time for such a situation, the legislator had not provided the person with a way to get before the court and raise his question. In order to resolve this situation, the Supreme Court said that according to the Constitution everyone must have the opportunity to come to justice with their case and settled the case himself. This shows that this is the removal of a legal gap and that the aim is still to protect the fundamental rights of the individual.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U34	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable President of the Supreme Court! How many arbitration decisions do we have in Estonia? Are all kinds of arbitration and labour dispute committees estimated to be few or many for Estonia? Do you think this proportion is characteristic of the present society, or are there just many of them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U36	Thank you for this very interesting question, but I have to admit that I do not have the statistics right now. My own personal impression or experience says that there are rather few arbitration decisions in Estonia, which is also, as far as I understand, a more general trend in Europe. In those countries where there is a strong judicial system and the possibility of obtaining assistance from the courts to protect their subjective rights, there is little establishment of arbitration. Obviously, this also justifies why arbitration is not very common in Estonia, at least in my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U37	Thank you. Honourable President of the Supreme Court, thank you for your review. I will discuss and think with you a little bit about individual appeals and also about the role of the Riigikogu. In your speech, you said that an individual complaint may be addressed to the Supreme Court in order to challenge the decision of the Riigikogu, the Executive Board of the Riigikogu or the President of the Republic, as well as the decision or act of the Electoral Commission. I wonder with you whether the decision of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu also comes under the direction of the hearing during the oral procedure without any written formalisation. Elik what is the legal protection of a member of the Riigikogu, and could a member of the Riigikogu directly contact the Riigikogu with an individual complaint to challenge the Rules of Procedure? Consequently, I would like to state my personal opinion on the Constitutional College or on its separate procedure, that perhaps this does not make sense. But how do you feel about defending the rights of a member of the Riigikogu in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U38	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U39	Thank you. This sentence, which you said on the basis of my report, comes from the current Constitutional Review Law on the Court of Justice. Here we are not talking about creating something new, but about the existing norm that really provides such a right for a member of the Riigikogu, among other things. But I can't get any more specific, because I have to admit there is no practice. How many such appeals have there been to the Supreme Court? I don't dare say there weren't any, but there have been exceptionally few. Therefore, the caselaw on which individual questions can be challenged, which are not and what are the possible options has not developed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U40	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U41	Thank you. Mr. President of the Supreme Court! I heard you say that indexing the salaries of judges and other civil servants is wrong. Basically, it's a pay freeze. I frozen myself and the government's wages for many years and stopped this law from working, but it was determined will. This freezing has not been the will of anyone; it has been an interpretation of the wording put forward by someone that has not responded to Parliament's will. Can this false indexation be legitimate? What should Parliament do in a situation where someone always believes that it is politically impossible to deal with their pay?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U42	Thank you for that question. From this question, I conclude that our views coincide, in the sense that the General Assembly of the Supreme Court has also taken the view that the indexing rule is clearly misspelled in this form. It is likely that the implementation practice that has been put into effect several years after the entry into force of the Act has been based on this same understanding. What can I do? I think that, if Parliament itself sees that the rule of law has failed, and the practice of implementing it has also gone in the wrong direction, it is high time that this provision was revised and corrected by rewording the law in such a way that it was in line with Parliament's will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U43	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! § 148 of the Constitution allows for the setting up of special courts if necessary. The National Defence Committee has had a discussion, for example, on the establishment of the Defence Forces Court. What is your position: could the Court of the Defence Forces as an institution exist in times of peace, of course, in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U45	Thank you for that question. If I remember correctly, the same topic was also discussed at the conference organised this spring by the Assembly of Estonian Reserve Officers. There was a question as to whether a separate court would be needed in Estonia to deal with military crimes. Before 1940, this special branch of the judicial system existed in Estonia and in many foreign countries it also exists. However, the idea that we do not create separate courts for the resolution of certain types of court cases has rather been taken into account in the construction of our modern judicial system. There is only one exception to the administrative courts at first instance. In the remaining cases, unlike many other countries, where there are tax courts, separate family courts, etc., this path has not been completed in Estonia. It has been decided that we are specialised in judges and, if there are some very specific areas, that the judges who have received special preparation will understand the law in such matters, who are deeply familiar with the field. As a result, I personally believe that it is not appropriate to create a separate judicial branch for crimes involving the military service. This is for the sole reason that, looking at the current judicial statistics, we see that there are very few criminal cases and cases started on the basis of military crimes, with very low numbers. Whenever we discuss whether there is a need for specialisation or, for example, an abstractly separate judicial branch, the main issue is the number of things. After all, the number of things is what's decisive here. If there are no things, there is no reason to create a separate judicial institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U46	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U47	Thank you, good manager. Head of the Supreme Court! I will continue the debate initiated by Hanno Pevkur. For example, if a member of the Riigikogu realizes that the Board of the Riigikogu or the Chairman of the session has violated the law on domestic and operating procedures for any reason, does this member of the Riigikogu have the right to appeal to the Supreme Court for an assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U48	Thank you for this question. Once again, these possibilities are provided for in the current Constitutional Review Courts Act. The Supreme Court must, of course, examine this complaint or application if there is a relevant ground.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U49	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! From time to time, through the press, we see that, in some cases, the sense of justice of the people is affected, and there is a huge discussion in society about it. Do you think that this is a problem in Estonian society at all, and if it is a problem, what should be done to ensure that the judgment and the sense of justice of the people are equivalent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U51	Thank you. This is a question that is quite often put to the judges of the people's sense of justice and the consistency of judgments. One could begin with what is the sense of public justice that expresses it or how it can be measured. But once again, as far as criminal matters are concerned, where this issue is primarily raised, the sense of justice of the people should be expressed there by two components. One is the involvement of the judges of the people in justice, which means that in more complex criminal cases justice is not only understood, let's say, a judicially prepared judge living in an ebony tower, but also the people themselves participate in justice and decision-making. After all, in the formation of the three-member court, there are two people's judges next to one professional judge. This is one place where I think the public's involvement in justice could be further developed. I have to admit that the National Judge's Institute has recently been relatively neglected. In my opinion, the Ministry of Justice has not paid enough attention to this, which could be dealt with further. But the second component of this is that the state as a whole is represented in the criminal proceedings by the prosecutor's office. In other words, if the prosecutor's office feels that the sentence imposed is not in line with the scale of the guilty person's guilt and is clearly unfair, it can, through an appeal, shape the case-law in the direction that the public thinks it requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U52	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U53	Thank you, good manager. Dear President of the Supreme Court, this presentation was undoubtedly interesting. Maybe I'll ask you a simple thing like that. In the area of justice, the number of judges is often discussed as to whether they are sufficient, and then it is discussed how judicial proceedings have gone over time. These statistics are also included here. I am asking about the speed of judicial proceedings, which is important for people and the economy. How do you feel about that? Is this sufficient, or should the procedure become quicker, so that people realise that going to court is a very strong opportunity to defend their rights? What trends are you forecasting? Do you suddenly see any opportunities to improve the situation, or do you even have suggestions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U54	Thank you for that question. The report that I sent here and also made available in writing to Parliament is accompanied by the corresponding statistical reviews. When you read them, it becomes clear that Estonia has an average time of trial, I would say, impressive. In the civil process, it will be discussed at first instance in an average of a hundred days, actually discussing a little longer, but in almost a hundred days. In a sense, we have reached the goal that, in my memory, the coalition formed in 2011 must have set itself: one hundred days for the average time of court proceedings. This has now been achieved. This, of course, is largely due to the fact that the judicial system gained many additional resources to deal with cases, in particular through the establishment of the Institute of Advocates-General. There is no denying that this effective contribution to justice has also led to a shortening of the average time taken to resolve the case. If we look at Europe more broadly, Estonia has always been at the top of the table in the European Union's Justice Scoreboard in terms of average time of justice. We're from upstairs if my memory doesn't fool me, third. I'd say the trial couldn't get any faster. In fact, when we look at the financing of justice systems in this same European Union Justice Scoreboard, we paradoxically note that, in terms of the amount of money allocated to the judiciary, we are at the bottom of the table. We're third down, we're only two countries below us. This shows that the Estonian judicial system is exceptionally effective, with the budget resources allocated to the judicial system, we can offer the best possible justice. I think it is clear that the Estonian judiciary is doing a very good job.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U55	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! As regards the creation of the Defence Forces Court, I would add to the reply that it would be practical and realistic and that a debate around this issue could be created. But my question is that there is no draft of the execution and implementation of the Supreme Court ruling in the proceedings of the Riigikogu. There are 11 such solutions. What obstacles have such a situation actually created to the activities and work of the Supreme Court, i.e. the wider proceedings of the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U57	Thank you. Let me start at the beginning of this question. Of course, I also support any debate, including on the establishment of a national defence court. I think that the conference organised by the Spring Assembly of Estonian Reserve Officers was one such forum where discussions were held on these matters. But I now come to the statistical review accompanying the presentation of the President of the Supreme Court, which reflects the execution of the Supreme Court's decisions made under constitutional supervision. Yeah, that's the statistics we do. To my annual report, I have put this table with the idea of drawing Parliament's attention to those places where Riigikogu intervention is needed. To say that this situation affects the activities of the Supreme Court cannot be said. Rather, it affects the realisation of individual rights in one area or another, because if there is no constitutional regulation, it is clear that the functioning of civil society is difficult. If you come to the Supreme Court again and ask what it means to us, it must be said that it is certain that there may be some sort of analogously resolved case to be dealt with, which would be unnecessary if Parliament made a legislative amendment. Such an impact on the activities of the Supreme Court may indeed have on the activities of the Supreme Court. However, more broadly, I would like to say that there is no coercive mechanism in any country to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is still based on the principle of separation of powers, including the fact that, on the one hand, the judicial system understands the right within the prescribed legal limits of the legislature and, on the other hand, the legislator also takes decisions under the constitutional review procedure in which the judicial system has indicated that one or the other provision is incompatible with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U58	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Let me remind you that it is possible for the representatives of the political groups to take the floor. First representative of the Central Party Group, Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U59	Good manager! Chairman of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, The annual overview by the Supreme Court's Chairman of the Supreme Court of the main issues of judicial activity this year focused on the need and possibilities to improve the protection of fundamental rights of individuals. Therefore, this time, not so directly to the problems of regulatory quality, but rather to the problems arising from the current legal order. Indeed, it cannot be argued that in Estonia, the role of the Parliament is primarily to design the legal order guaranteeing the fundamental rights of individuals, and that cooperation between the legislative and judicial authorities is essential in order to prevent possible violations of fundamental rights. On the subject of the amendment of the Prisoning Act mentioned in the report, following the decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 19 January 2016, which stated that Estonia had violated the requirements of Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms by restricting excessively the right of access of detainees to some of the Internet sites, namely, the Riigikogu and the Chancellor of Justice's website, we were able to find out that the Ministry of Justice is currently looking for solutions to the issue of online use of prisoners. Above all, how to strike a balance between the rights and security of prisoners so that the latter does not suffer. The Ministry is also currently examining technical options for technical guaranteeing a wider freedom of the Internet. At the moment, however, there is no so-called prepared solution or document, but the topic is still topical in cooperation with the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice and the Prisons Department and hopefully will still arrive at the draft Legal Affairs Committee during this Riigikogu. The second issue, which relates to the electoral rights of prisoners, is more relevant to the area of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice announced that this problem has now been analysed and that a draft could be drawn up in the near future. In the case of the third issue, namely the question of compensation for damage caused with an unreasonable length of time, which has only been regularised in part of the legal proceedings, it is probably very problematic to find a common and appropriate solution, given the fact that the procedures in the various legal areas are already so very different in nature and with very different complexity and size. In addition, the number of parties, their activities and their attitude to the settlement of the case, as well as the generally known high workload of the courts, which in turn is directly linked to the state's resource capacity, also affect the length of the proceedings. Of course, no omissions can be justified by the complexity of the matter, and it is necessary to continue to work in a targeted manner to find an appropriate balanced solution. Finally, I would like to draw attention to another important fact on which the President of the Supreme Court did not address his report, but what is clear from the statistics on the activities of the courts. We are talking about constitutional review decisions of the Supreme Court, which require the activities of the legislator, but for which the legislator has not yet begun to process the relevant draft. According to the overview, there are currently 11 to 6 years old decisions on constitutional supervision of the Supreme Court, the execution of which has not been carried out by the Riigikogu. This is an unfinished job, which, unfortunately, does not depend solely on the will of the Riigikogu committees. The provisions of different laws declared illegal by the Supreme Court need to be repeated, first analyzed and coordinated at the level of ministries as "competence centres" and the Government of the Republic. Surely we expect a greater initiative from the government. It should be noted positively that, over the course of the year, the legislator has been able to comply with three constitutional monitoring decisions, and there are currently two other drafts which serve this purpose in Parliament's proceedings. Thank you for your presentation and your strength to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U60	Next, Kalle Laane, representative of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U61	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U62	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U63	Head of the Supreme Court! Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you, bearing in mind three key words: the procedure for the budget of the courts of first and second instance, the pay of judges and, of course, the reduction of discretion. All of this goes under the common denominator, which is the restriction of the independence of the judiciary. We know that the President of the Supreme Court addressed the Riigikogu on 6 June 2017 at the request of the court administration council on the draft law amending the state budget law. The Chancellor of Justice has already referred to a breach of the Constitution because the government coalition wants to reduce the role of Parliament, but there is another very serious deficit concerning the judiciary. Paragraph 37 of the current Basic State Budget Act provides that, in the event of a change in the amount of funds provided for in the draft state budget or the exclusion of funds for county courts, administrative courts and district courts, the Government of the Republic shall submit the changes made, together with the opinion of the Courts' Administration Advisory Board, in the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget. However, the proposed draft 456 intends, inter alia, to repeal, in its entirety, § 35 and 37, which makes it impossible for the Court of Justice Advisory Board, as it stands, to participate in the budget-making process of the courts of first and second instance. The court administration council considers very clearly that in order to guarantee the independence of the judiciary, it is necessary to maintain the role of the Riigikogu and the court administration council in shaping the budget of the courts of first and second instance as a separate branch of power. As a result, the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the political groups of the Riigikogu have been called upon to discuss this issue very seriously. The second issue is the remuneration of judges. The Association of Estonian Judges has addressed Parliament several times, the last time the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was referred to on 5 May 2017. I quote a letter from Virgo Saarmets, in which she writes about how remuneration affects the independence of judges: 'As remuneration is the basic guarantee of the impartiality and independence of the judge (with the duration of his life) and, in the light of the strict operating constraints attached to the occupation, mostly the only source of income for the judge (including no additional fees or other benefits for the judges), the indexation of remuneration is an extremely important issue for the judiciary and without delay. " I personally turned to the chairman and members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after this letter arrived, so that this issue would be discussed as a matter of urgency. Unfortunately, we haven't gotten anywhere with this. The answer has generally been unambiguous: there is no consensus in the Riigikogu to resolve this issue. In my opinion, however, this question has not even been raised on the table yet. Yes, I must admit that this issue has been discussed in so-called smoke corners, but not seriously. As far as the margin of discretion of judges is concerned, this is precisely the point of view that the Minister of Justice has made very clear in the press that heavy penalties must be imposed on drunk drivers. Yes, the Riigikogu is dealing with the so-called "shocking" bill. Those are very bad signs in terms of losing court power. Finally, as regards the reference of the President of the Supreme Court to the reputation of our state due to the restriction of the electoral rights of prisoners, I personally, as Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, have discussed this matter at least twice with the current Minister of Justice. He has promised that the Ministry of Justice will prepare a draft electoral right for the prisoners and a specific catalogue. I would like to express my hope from this panel that it will be prepared as soon as possible and the draft will be forwarded to Parliament, so that Estonia's reputation will not be damaged internationally. Finally, I wish the President of the Supreme Court and the entire judiciary to continue their will to keep the flag of law enforcement high and a nice approaching summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U64	Next on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U65	Mr President of the sitting! I'm asking for more time now!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U66	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U67	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Free Party Group instructed me to give a group speech on this item and, at the same time, left me quite free to speak about what I should talk about and how I should speak about. So I made a small choice. I will first tell us about the documents submitted as an appendix to the speech of the President of the Supreme Court, which contain statistics and figures. Then I want to talk about why the Riigikogu does not comply with the decisions of the Supreme Court. This complaint has also been repeated this year. I would also like to talk about some of the issues related to prisoners that the President of the Supreme Court dealt with in his speech and to refer to the problems of the future. First of all, numerical things. During the last five years, there have been no fundamental changes in the structure of the duties of our courts, no section of the work has disappeared and no more has come. That is why the figures for the last five years are meaningful. If we look at the general trend, we can see that there has been a consistent decrease in the volume of work in all the sub-categories of judicial work, which is very positive of itself. In view of this, we should recognise that in Estonia, the actions of the courts and the political decisions on which it was based have generally been productive and correct. On the other hand, I have to admit that when I try to read the procedural statistics we have here, I have to admit that I do not understand the vast majority of the things that are written here, and I think that most members of the Riigikogu do not understand them. They need a thorough comment on what something means. Certainly, these figures do not mean what they mean according to ordinary people's perception that there have been many trials and decisions. The main method of expanding the numbers has been that we have a very large number of things assigned to the court, which should not, in principle, be the responsibility of the court in the country, but we have been so decided and obviously so well. On the other hand, all these pre-trial dispute settlements, i.e. any arbitration settlements, are missing in this statistics. It is far from being said that, for example, large companies resolve disputes between themselves in either Stockholm or London arbitration. In fact, there are several places here with this problem of comprehension of numbers. We can certainly say that, in the meantime, if the courts had not been given much more work, we would now be in a situation where we should reduce the size of the judicial staff and probably the number of judges. One very important piece of work took place years ago (I can't say exactly at the moment) when a separate complaint procedure was introduced. This currently accounts for roughly 50% of the cases that are even under civil procedure. Basically, they did it before without it, and they could do it now, but that's the decision. This has been one of our general tendencies, supported by both the Ministry of Justice and the judicial system, that if the burden on the courts is reduced due to the processes in society, new forms of action will be considered for the courts. I can't imagine how much this urgent procedure of a tax order, which is, in the meantime, a big bill, had 40,000 things a year a few years ago, had 30,000 things a year in the last two years, so to speak, raised the bill. There has certainly been an increase in the number of cases since this update. The next question is changing the law. Personally, I am not of the opinion that if the Supreme Court makes any kind of decision under constitutional review, then some mysterious process of implementing this decision will begin. I've always thought that all kinds of work is done by real, living people. To think that the Riigikogu itself would be able to initiate complicated draft laws such as the Arms Act, the Code of Civil Procedure or the Administrative Procedure Act is completely pointless. We do not have such staff, and probably the leaders of our committees and the government coalition do not see the need to deal with these matters. It must therefore be assumed that this should be dealt with by the Ministry of Justice. But when we look at who these people are on the payroll of the Ministry of Justice, who should produce this kind of bill if necessary, we see that they have a wide range of theoretical knowledge, but no practical judgment experience. So we are still going back in circles: our biggest specialists in the problems of amending these laws are either in the Supreme Court itself or growing on top of lower-level practitioners. So maybe, Mr. Pikamäe, let's stop complaining. Implement the process of creating these drafts from your own circle of acquaintances and subordinates, because the Minister of Justice Reinsalu will not do so for you and no one in the Riigikogu will be able to do so. The third question is what the President of the Supreme Court dealt with here in relation to prisoners. The right to vote for prisoners is a question of beard. I remember talking about it in 1992, and they're still talking about it. The question is what is the obstacle that it has not been possible to do so. I am saying that there has been a lack of political will and, on the other hand, there is some kind of admiration for this phase of our history, that is, Päts's time, when these things were very harsh, when it was clear that if a person goes to prison, he will also lose the right to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U68	Dear waitress, I must point out that your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U69	Is the extra time over?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U70	Unfortunately, yes. There's no way to give more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U71	I'm sorry! I'll try to be a little more economical next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U72	Thank you. Next, Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Chairman of the Supreme Court, thank you for your very interesting presentation and presentation of problems! I have a question that has arisen many times. When we talk about rights enforcement, we often start talking about the rights of the accused, the suspects and the prisoners. This last issue we addressed very much today, either the right of prisoners to use the Internet or the exercise of their rights in elections. But I think that we often forget one very important principle of proportionality: we should also talk about ensuring the rights of victims and witnesses in criminal or civil disputes. There is not so much for the victims of civil disputes, but when it comes to crimes and misdemeanours, the party of the victims and witnesses is underlying in terms of proportionality. Who else, though, can better monitor this principle of proportionality or assess it as the highest level of justice, i.e. courts? From now on, the high courts would be happy to hear the assessment of the proportionality of the state's activities in ensuring the rights of victims and witnesses. The problems that the President of the Supreme Court pointed out today must certainly be dealt with very intensively, but there is indeed a request that the other party be given sufficient attention. It's not very different in civil disputes. There is going to be this property side: who has more money and who can secure a better representative, it often tends to the win side, thanks to this intercourse of forces. True, the country has taken a small step here. It was only recently that we dealt with the issue of state legal aid in civil dispute matters. To insolvent customers, the state provides certain legal assistance, from this point of view, whether it is worth starting a civil dispute at all, but it is still a marginal step on the part of the state, I think. While the Supreme Court points to problems as a very high and respected institution, the legislator, or Riigikogu, has quite often taken this into account and started to deal with these problems, although we also complain that the legislator often does not want to deal with the problems that the Supreme Court has referred to. The second issue that we are talking about over and over again and which we have been talking about here today is the proportionality of the procedures and the time limits for the procedure, the overrun of the optimal or reasonable time limit for the procedure, etc. It was mentioned here that about 80% of cases are dealt with through a settlement procedure and whether there is little or no. You can argue about that, of course. Surely it would be better if this figure were lower. After all, we do know the circumstances of the agreement procedure a little, at least the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs who have come into contact with this issue. Often, this is the easy way of resisting, so that the court settlement is resolved as easily and quickly as possible. We know that the arrangement procedure gives a very high advantage just... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U74	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U75	...to the accused, to the suspect, because it reduces the sentence. So this is a very substantive question, whether it is sufficient or not. Now let's look at the statistics. For example, the average time taken to deal with a case before a court of first instance is 181 days. Let's look at the courts separately. In Viru County Court, the average duration of proceedings is 257 days. It's one year, but it's average, it's not enough. That's obviously a lot. If Pärnu and Harju County Court can manage several times in a shorter time, here's what to think about. Let's look at civil matters. Mr Pikamäe thought that we had achieved an excellent result that the average time limit for proceedings at first instance was 100 days. Yeah, but here's the reverse ratio again: to the second power, this time is 158 days, so it's going to increase by a third. What does it lead to? On the one hand, there is always the question of whether a reasonable time limit for proceedings has been exceeded and whether there is a disproportionate number of rights restricted. Often, these criminal cases and proceedings are also of interest to the media, while prosecutions are being made against the courts, the prosecutor's office, the judicial authorities. These average figures, in my opinion, are still too high. If we get below the average, there is also the possibility of significantly increasing the number of general procedures. Because if the average time limits are so long, there is no possibility of taking more matters into the general procedure, because there are simply no judges left to deal with these matters in the general procedure, and these time limits would become even longer, and these delays and such accusations would increase even more, this pressure would become even stronger. Another thing that is obvious is that when this endless trial ends, neither the victims nor the witnesses remember, not often the accused, nor the accused, with which it began. At the end of the trial, perhaps the circumstances will begin to fade, and the Witnesses will begin to lose their memory so that appropriate normal testimony will no longer be obtained. So there is, and there is, what to do to make our trial more effective and quicker. I also believe that there is a need to assess and talk about the question of proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U76	Next on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U77	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Chairman of the Supreme Court has just given us a good overview of the court order, the administration of justice and the uniform application of the laws. Thank you so much for that. I was very pleased to hear that each group had found a different subject from this presentation to highlight and draw attention to. All topics were very important and many of them require our contribution, i.e. the Riigikogu. I fully agree with the good waitress that since the next Riigikogu elections are already due in spring 2019, it is the right time to initiate a debate on the electoral rights of detainees. But I myself, and probably my group, spoke mostly on another subject. The subject that, to say the least, even made me a little worried. This issue is the subject of an individual complaint, in fact, of the Constitutional Court. In his report, the Chairman of the Supreme Court supported the right of a person to address an individual complaint directly to the Supreme Court if a person considers a law or regulation to be contrary to the Constitution. At the moment, this constitutional review is possible under the law of legal proceedings, but in fact there is no such possibility. Only the President, the Chancellor of Justice, the courts and, in certain cases, the local authorities can initiate constitutional monitoring. If a person considers that a legal act is contrary to the Constitution and that legislation has been implemented, it is possible to challenge it before a court and also to ask for the constitutionality of the act or regulation on which it is based to be examined. If the legislation has not yet been specifically implemented, everyone can turn to the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice, in turn, must assess the conformity of the law or regulation with the Constitution, he can propose to amend the legislation and, if his proposal is not followed, the Chancellor of Justice can turn to the Supreme Court for constitutional review. Therefore, in my opinion, there is no gap in constitutional supervision. If someone's fundamental rights are violated, they can file a complaint. A complaint can be filed even if the law has not yet been implemented, but it still seems unconstitutional. The President of the Supreme Court proposed to reform the system and make an individual complaint possible. What does that mean? I'm sure that means losing the role of Chancellor of Justice. If a person has the opportunity to address directly to the Supreme Court, why should he contact the Chancellor of Justice? In my opinion, the Estonian constitutional oversight system has actually succeeded and there is no need for change. Both the Chancellor of Justice and the lower courts act as a filter and thus avoid the overload of the Supreme Court. The fact that the Constitutional Review College is composed of specialists in administrative law, constitutional law, civil and penal law, judges, is a very important strength of this system. One more thing. Writing a perfect complaint is not actually very easy, so you study at school for quite a few years. The average person, if he doesn't have a special education, usually gets stuck with it unless he can afford an expensive lawyer. However, when a person first addresses the Chancellor of Justice, the Chancellor of Justice can clarify the complaint, extend it, pour it into the legal language and thus ensure that maximum results are achieved. The court must remain within the limits of the appeal lodged, the Chancellor of Justice does not really have that obligation. Plus a little thought exercise. I argue that the Constitutional Court actually reduces the possibilities of defence. The Supreme Court does not take 98% of the cases submitted in the middle of the proceedings. Therefore, if the individual appeal goes directly to the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court does not take the case into consideration in 98 out of 100 cases, then after that, it is no longer worth turning to the Chancellor of Justice. The only place to turn then is the European Court of Human Rights, which is why by creating such an additional institution, I believe, we will reduce the possibilities for national protection and increase the number of referrals to the European Court of Human Rights in Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U78	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U79	The President of the Supreme Court also proposes that a minority of the parliament may also have the right to address directly to the Supreme Court for the purpose of abstract norm control. As the Head of the Supreme Court said in the written version of his speech: "In view of the trends in judicial proceedings on constitutional supervision mentioned above, I still believe that Parliament might consider extending the circle of persons with the authority to initiate an abstract review of the rules. Thus, in our legal order, there is still no 'group appeal institute', the right of a minority of Parliament to refer to the Supreme Court under constitutional review. The regularisation of the latter option could, among other things, significantly reduce the use of the obituary in the form of night sittings in Parliament. ' I'm certainly not a supporter of night sessions. However, the question is whether this proposed solution would be the best and most appropriate solution to this particular problem. During the debates held in the previous government on this subject, I was opposed to the ideas that had been put forward and, with the same conviction, I am also opposed to this issue today. If such an initiative were to be implemented, a so-called upper chamber would be formed at the court of the Riigikogu. No bill would become a law until the judges have decided so. This, however, is a result that must be avoided. I sincerely believe that this would seriously interfere with the principle of separation of powers. We have no right to put a judge in that position. We have no right to put the country in that position either. Estonia is a parliamentary state and the power of the Riigikogu must not be restricted either for the benefit of the executive power or not for the benefit of the judiciary. The judiciary is an important guarantor of the credibility and stability of the state. Of course, if the system is broken, it needs to be repaired. However, if the system is working and, in my opinion, it actually works very well, then change for itself or for beauty should be avoided. We have a well-functioning system of constitutional supervision, the College with the Supreme Court can do its job perfectly, and I do not believe that there is a need to change the current system. To base this need on an example of one of the 2003 cases, I believe that this is not the reason why we are going to change the functioning of the system. Ensuring the continuity and stability of the judicial system is certainly one of those places where conservativeness as a characteristic is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U80	Thank you. There's no more words. I will conclude the negotiations and also this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U81	Our second item today is the second reading of draft law 441 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Agreement on the Establishment of a Regional Unit of the Unified Patent Court in the Nordic and Baltic States. I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U82	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As you will remember, the first reading of the bill took place in this Chamber on 1 June. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by 5 June at the deadline for submitting amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft before the second reading at its meeting on 6 June, where no amendments to the draft were also proposed. We therefore made a procedural decision to put the draft at second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 8 June, i.e. today, and to propose that it be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U83	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 441. Let us move to the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Unified Patent Court initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Agreement on the Establishment of a Regional Unit of the Unified Patent Court in the Nordic and Baltic States 441. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U84	Today's third item is the second reading of the Draft Act 440 on the Application of the Convention on the Issue of European Patents, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Amendment of other Acts. Once again, it is a pleasure to ask Deniss Borodich, Member of the Chair Committee on Economic Affairs, for a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is very much linked to the previous draft that we have just adopted as a law. Its first reading was also held in this Chamber on 1 June and no amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by 5 June. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice addressed the Commission with some of the proposals that we are proposing as amendments to the Commission. The first amendment concerns paragraph 1 (1) of the draft proposal, which is to amend the title. With regard to the amendment of the title of the Act on the application of the European Convention on the Issue of Patents in Paragraph 1 (1) of the Bill, it is necessary to amend the title of the Act in the Law on the Useful Models, the Patent Act and the Law on the Foundations of Industrial Property Law. So this is a relatively technical change. The second amendment that we decided to make in the Commission's draft concerns the entry into force of the law. It is also appropriate to point out that the Commission was approached by the Ministry of Justice with a request to complete the draft with amendments to the Churches and Congregations Act. The majority of the Commission considered that, since it would then be a cluster law, it would not be appropriate to discuss it within the framework of this draft, although there is a practical concern. We also made a procedural decision in the committee to send the draft to second reading in Riigikogu plenary by 8 June, which is today, and our proposal is to conclude the second reading. The Commission also decided that, when the second reading was closed, the final vote on the draft could be on 14 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U86	There are no questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? No, I don't. We will go to the examination of the amendments. As the rapporteur said, two amendments have been tabled. The first amendment was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment was also tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 440. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U87	Today's fourth item on the agenda is the second reading of the Social Committee's draft law on capacity support and related amendments to other laws 468. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask for a presentation by the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U88	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the preparation for the second reading of draft law 468 on the amendment of the Labour Capacity Allowance Act and other laws, which took place in the Committee on Social Affairs after the first reading. A little information to refresh your memory. The Social Affairs Committee initiated this draft law on 16 May 2017, the first reading was completed on 30 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 3 p.m. on 2 June. The political groups and members of the Riigikogu did not propose any amendments to the draft. However, the Commission addressed the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People as well as the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund earlier, immediately after the draft was initiated, for an opinion. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People sent the draft opinion, and the Estonian Health Insurance Fund also expressed its opinion. The Minister for Social Protection also asked the Social Protection Committee to supplement the draft with provisions allowing for better access to social rehabilitation services with the available state budget resources. The Social Affairs Committee invited Deputy Chancellor Janar Holm, Head of Employment Department Siiri Otsmann, Adviser of the Employment Department Õie Jõgiste, Adviser of the Welfare Department Maarja Krais-Leoski, Head of the Social Insurance Institute Merlin Murumets, Chief Specialist of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, Tauno Asuja, Head of the Management Board of the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund Erik Asa and Head of the Legal Department Ira Songisep. The proposal of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People was heard and discussed. Tauno Asuja spoke to the Commission about the concern that, if the beneficiary of the capacity allowance had to prove that the payments had been made several months ago, the additional administrative burden would not be excessive. He asked if it could be resolved differently, for example, an extension of the income period could be considered. Blossom Rivers explained that the proposal made by the Ministry (§ 1 (3)) regulates the case if the employer's fault is that any payments have been paid at an incorrect time and, as a result, the person's income exceeds 90 times the amount of the disability allowance. He also explained that when a person himself proves this to be the right thing to do. It will take a long time to change it and bring together the Tax and Customs Board database and all tax declarations and the unemployment fund database with accruals and cash-based reporting; secondly, it will also create unreasonable costs. Consequently, the Member of the Commission, Tiina Kangro, proposed to delete the word 'yl' from the text, indeed, the employer does not have to feel guilty and replace it with a softer wording. This proposal is now in the text and there is no such word as 'yl' here. Jüri Jaanson asked that if the holiday and pay are paid in one month, the unemployment fund could divide them into months of leave, but why the word'may' has been used here, but not the imperative form. Blossom Rivers explained that the best option for a person is chosen, and the word'may' provides the basis for choosing this best option. The total number of amendments was 12. The first amendment follows the address of the Minister for Social Protection. He proposed that, at third reading, the title of this law should be 'Law amending the Employment Allowance Act and other laws', rather than 'draft law amending the Employment Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws'. The first proposal was supported. I would like to say right away that all of the following proposals were also supported by consensus in the Committee on Social Affairs. It is true that after the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs on Monday, 5 June, there was another debate on 6 June. Amendments 4 and 5 corrected the wording and were supported by consensus. I am talking about a few more substantive proposals that were more important. Perhaps it is also important to mark the verbatim for the sake of changing the terms. In the previous text, the terms 'care treatment' and 'care hospital' were used in the context of specialist medical care, replaced by the terms 'ambulatory treatment' and'static treatment' to expand the possibilities. Amendment 3 also introduced the concept of 'at the same or other level of education'. Perhaps it is not always after the summer period has moved to a new level of education, but may continue to study at the same level of education. It may also be worth pointing out that this is the way in which the law is no longer simply fixed on 31 August (until then, the person is paid a grant without knowing whether he will continue his studies), but that the term 'not more than 95 days' has been introduced, because not all educational institutions start their work on 1 September. The Minister of Social Protection asked for an amendment to the law. Mary Krais-Leosk gave an overview of this situation. Indeed, in 2016, there were a total of 208 children under 16 years of age seeking to identify the degree of disability, who had a rehabilitation plan drawn up, but 36% of them did not later use rehabilitation services because they did not need to do so. If someone who needs services is looked at according to a rehabilitation plan rather than a legal obligation to do so, this would provide an opportunity to save some EUR 80,000. This 80000 would be savings this year, as the law would enter into force on 1 July 2017 (this is precisely the paragraph), but EUR 160000 would be saved in the coming years. This money could be used to better and faster service and support children in need of rehabilitation services. It is also important to note that the request and request made by the Health Insurance Fund were in line with the proposal of the Minister for Health and Labour that the period of entry into force of the dental benefit, which is the amendments Nos 11 and 12, would be on 1 January 2018. It is necessary to draw up a list of health services and precisely because of the diseases diagnosed. It'll take a while. All these proposals, as I said earlier, were supported by consensus. At its meeting on 5 June, the Committee on Social Affairs proposed that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed, by 14 June at 14 o'clock, and that the draft be put to the final vote. At its meeting on 6 June, the wording of the fourth and fifth amendments was reviewed and the procedural documents for the second reading were approved. These decisions were also consensual. For the sake of accuracy, I must certainly add that there was a debate that, as another topic has been introduced, child rehabilitation services, the title of the law will also change. Mr Lauri pointed out that this was not good lawmaking practice. But everyone consensually admitted that the Social Insurance Board has carried out a strong analysis and looked at the essence of how to ease the situation of people. Drawing up a rehabilitation plan, if this service is not actually needed or used, is an unreasonable cost and means running people further, but if the law is amended so that it is no longer mandatory, it will provide an opportunity to shorten the queues. All members of the Commission also supported by consensus that the third reading would be entitled 'Law amending the Employment Allowance Act and other laws'. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U89	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. First Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am reading Amendment 12, which is the issue of the date of entry into force, which you have also talked about nicely. This list of diseases requires the approval of the Estonian Dental Association as well as an assessment of the financial impact. Please explain whether we will stop reading second reading of the bill, but there is not even an assessment of the financial impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U91	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, that is why it is necessary to extend the deadline to 1 January 2018. All people, such as diabetics, must have a diagnosis-based assessment of service needs. Anyone who has the right to receive this service must be guaranteed by the state budget. The Minister must issue a regulation listing on a diagnostic basis which diseases are eligible for this service. It's true. This requires six months of analysis (not really six months, probably less). This is why the Health Insurance Fund and the Minister for Health and Labour also approached us with a proposal not to enforce this section from 1 July 2017 but from 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U92	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! It is, in itself, that a rehabilitation plan is not being made for people or customers who do not need it, very reasonable in order for others to be able to provide more services, but can you tell us why this knowledge has only reached this hall now and not sooner?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U94	Thank you very much for this question. The same issue was also under discussion for us, not only in the framework of this draft, but also when it turned out that there was no money left for certain rehabilitation services. Indeed, the analysis carried out in 2016 at the Social Insurance Board found that a large number of those who are required to do so under the law and who have to use it do not need this service. Money will be spent on the plan, but the service will not actually be used anyway. Why did this only get here now? I can say that, after all, there was now a better analysis of the situation and clearer orders were given for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U95	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do colleagues want to negotiate? However, Ain Lutsepp would like to ask. Please register the question at the right time! You can register for questioning even when others are still asking. Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U96	I am sorry, Mr President-in-Office, and thank you too. Question for the waitress. I would still ask you once again to explain why it is so urgent. Nor is the Estonian Health Insurance Fund council here with even a general opinion. This concerns Amendment 12, which you already dealt with in reply to Krista Aru's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U97	Thank you very much. Why is this law so urgent? This was explained at first reading and also at the initiation of the draft. Summer is coming, which would have assumed that, for example, people who are studying would register at the unemployment fund by then. The law that will be in force on 1 July will give these people the opportunity not to do so, but will continue to pay this subsidy. That's the reason. Why does this deadline change and what is set out in Amendments 11 and 12 do not apply? We do not want to create a situation where a certain number of people with a certain diagnosis of illness would not be compensated again. More time is needed to draw up the correct list. This paragraph of the Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U98	There really are no more questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? I don't recommend it, in which case I won't open negotiations. 12 amendments have been received. These are all submitted by the Committee on Social Affairs and the position of the commission is to take them fully into account. I shall read only the numbers of the amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. We have examined the amendments and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 468. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U99	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Sport Act initiated by Jüri Jaanson, Hanno Pevkur, Kalle Palling, Meelis Mälberg, Lauri Luige, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Deniss Borodichi, Yoko Alenderi, Laine Randjärve, Heidy Purga, Arto Aasa, Kalle Laaneti, Remo Holsmeri, Aivar Sõerdi and Valdo Randpere. I ask Jüri Jaanson, a member of the Riigikogu, to speak as an initiator's waitress. I would also like to point out that, since we use the help of the monitor to ask questions, questions should be asked at a calm pace and clearly. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U100	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 6 April 2005, the Riigikogu passed the Sport Act and it entered into force at the beginning of 2006. The second chapter of this law provided retroactive support for the winner of the Paralympic Games from the beginning of 2005. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law contained two somewhat contradictory parameters: the grant is determined as the average wage of approximately one and a half of Estonia and the rate of this allowance is reviewed each year. The question arose: if the amount of the grant was to be approximately 1.5 times the average wage in Estonia, then the annual manual work should be done as an indexation of the grant rate. The practice so far has shown that in 12 years the government has been unable to do this once. Thus, due to inflation, the Olympic winner's support is now slightly more than half the average wage. On the other hand, it is already well approaching the minimum wage. Nine out of our 14 surviving Olympic winners are now receiving support, plus one of the Paralympic winners. The Riigikogu's sports and exercise support group has now initiated and 16 members of the Riigikogu have introduced a draft law amending the Sport Act 426 which is within the limits of the current Sport Act with regard to target groups, or Olympic winners and winners of the Paralympic Games. The draft aims to change three things in the light of the experience to date. Firstly, it aims to link the subsidy rate to the average wage, secondly, to assign a 1.3-fold average monthly wage to the Olympic winner and, as a third fundamental change, also to introduce a 0.65-fold average wage to the winner of the Paralympic Games, which would be EUR 750 at the present time. For more information, the Olympic winners are currently receiving €650 in support from the Act adopted in 2006, which fixed the amount of the grant at EEK 10000. The costs of support for the Olympic winners and the winners of the Paralympic Games must be covered by the state budget. As a law, the draft could enter into force at the beginning of 2018, i.e. next year. That's the review. I hope to receive your support for this draft and the valorisation of the Olympic winners. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U101	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Very good law, excellent! I'm sure the hall will support it. But I have a question. Why have you foreseen that the coefficient of support for the winner of the Paralympic Games is 0.65? My idea is that, if it is the Olympics or the Paralympics, the winners are worthy of equal support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U103	Thank you very much for this question. In principle, the Olympic winner is the winner of the Olympic Games. The winner of the Paralympic Games is not the Olympic winner, he is the winner of the Paralympic Games. Just for humane reasons, these two races have been linked so that people with special needs have live outputs. That is why this competition, the Paralympic Games, is constantly linked to the Olympic Games. According to the current tradition, after a few weeks of the Olympic Games, the Paralympic Games will begin, but they will indeed take place bearing the ideas and values of the Olympic Games. Both competitions take place with these values. But it is in itself two separate competitions, a separate event, and that is why we cannot approach them unambiguously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U104	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U105	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, Jüri Jaanson has also offered us Olympic experiences! My question goes on from here. I, too, believe that despite the fact that the Olympics and the Paralympic Games take place separately, they cannot take place at the same time, the winners of both games deserve equal recognition, because society, the world and the people of this social group consider both victories to be Olympic victories. I, too, do not understand why there is less support. If, in order for the budget to cover the support of the winners of both games, the Olympic index needs to be reduced a little bit, do you agree with that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U106	Rather, the question of budgetary opportunities should be discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But when we talk about recognition, it is not a matter of so much support for 'unequal recognition', but of such a measure of old age, of securing post-sport life, although there is certainly also a measure of recognition here. If we now wonder why this support could be different, it must be said that the Olympic Games are in themselves sports competitions of far greater weight than the Paralympic Games. For example, the initiators of the draft act were also guided by the practice used by the cultural capital for the payment of grants and considered that the support of the winner of the Paralympic Games could be half of the support of the winner of the Olympic Games. If we are talking about whether it is equal or unequal treatment, it can indeed be said that it is obviously unequal treatment. But exactly the same unequal treatment exists between the winners of the Olympic Games and the winners of other sports competitions and, for example, between the winners of the Paralympic Games and the winners of competitions for people with other special needs. In this respect, this unequal treatment is not in itself relevant. The Supreme Court has also pointed out in one of its decisions that unequal treatment is not prohibited, but unequal treatment is prohibited. There is no unacceptable unequal treatment at the moment, because these are completely different competitions with different weights. Here is also the fact that the Olympic winners are in a much more risky situation in terms of their social guarantees, for example in terms of health expenditure, also in practice in terms of health costs, which are particularly involved in training preparation and preparation for specific competitions. Here you can find the answer to why, as a general rule, the Olympic winner's support should be... I'm not saying it should be much bigger, I'm saying it should be decent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U107	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U108	Good President! A very honored waitress! How do you feel that this bill could be the first step in finding material support in the future for the winners of silver or bronze in the Olympics?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U109	I do not think there is really any need to extend this bill. I would like to stress once again that this draft itself is not a new initiative, but is based on the current sports law; it is intended to improve the law on sport. Personally, I do not think that this bill should be extended in any direction in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U110	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U111	Thank you. Good waitress! First of all, thank you very much for taking this subject to yourself, which is extremely grateful! Maybe you can open up some background. When this Olympic winner's support began to be planned, were there discussions on whether the winners of the Paralympic Games, as well as the winner of the Chess Olympics, could receive this support in some other way or at the same time? If there was a similar discussion at the time, maybe we could take something from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U112	Thank you for your question. The question is really very good. I did not belong to the Riigikogu at the time, and I know only what was happening at the time, which is in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law on sport. The question was whether or not the Olympic winner's support should be paid to the chess player. I don't know about this discussion, but I can tell you the general parameters that are the characteristics of sport. Sport, as such, is still a physical activity; secondly, it is necessarily a competition. Yeah, there's been a discussion all along about whether chess is a sport or not. On the basis of the competitive feature and, let's say, on the basis of such friendly considerations, chess is a sport, after all, the chess alliance has also been included among the members of the Estonian Olympic Committee. But according to the classic definition of sport, chess sports isn't. The question of whether this support could be paid to the chess Olympic winner is slightly different because the payment of the support to the chess Olympic winner would be out of the scope of the sports law. When we start talking about the payment of support to the Male Olympic winner, we must also talk about the payment of support to the winners of many other competitions. This is indeed a much wider issue and calls for a completely new draft. I would remind you that the current law amending the Sport Act is still intended to improve the Sport Act within its own borders.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U113	Dmitri Dmitriev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U114	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I personally support the subject you have set out, and I hope that the current government will take this very seriously. But why do you think the previous governments failed to solve the issue of public support for the Olympic winner?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U115	I think the main reason was simply that the target group, the Olympic winners themselves, was very modest. Secondly, the 'top organisation' of the Olympic winners or the umbrella organisations of the whole sport and the Olympic Committee were not loud enough, let us put it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U116	Lauri Luik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U117	Thank you. I just want to go over my first question to make it sound. I guess I agree with you. Please confirm whether you share this view. Yes, these baselines could be the same as when this Olympic support was being developed in the past, there would be little need to expand the existing framework. Perhaps the winners of the Paralympic and Male Olympic Games could be paid on the basis of some sort of coefficient, but certainly not the same amount as the winners of the Olympic Games.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U118	Yes, this view can be fully accepted. I will also say that if we are talking about breaking the current framework, it certainly should not be done, because then it would still be very disbanded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U119	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U120	Good manager! Good waitress, thank you! In support of maintaining the existing framework, one could ask such a trick question: suddenly the winners of the Olympics also want to be identified in this law, so that everyone can be equal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U121	Thank you. That's a really good question. This is a matter of culture or rather of education. Education needs to discuss its own views and ideas. I would not take a position here. But I'm saying it certainly doesn't fit in this framework.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U122	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. Sorry, we have also planned a report by the Committee on Culture, which is why I ask for a chair of the Vice-Chair of the Committee on Culture, Laine Randjärv. I apologise to colleagues who have already wished to have the floor. Please, Laine Randjärv, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much to the manager. Thank you also to Jüri Jaanson for his presentation and answers. I will describe the preparation of the first reading in the Committee on Culture of draft law amending the Law on Sport 426. This draft was discussed on three occasions: on 8 May a Commission rapporteur was appointed to the draft, on 28 May a consultation and discussion took place, and on 30 May an amendment to the draft law amending the law on sport came into question. While the first reading was scheduled for 6 June, the committee decided to send it to the Riigikogu's agenda by 8 June. Well, here we are. I will now describe the debate that took place on 28 May when the draft law amending the Law on Sport was examined in the context of the third item on the agenda of the Commission. Laine Randjärv first introduced the content of the draft at the request of one of the initiators of the draft Jüri Jaanson and explained that point 1 of the draft establishes the Olympic Winner's national support rate of 1.3 times the average monthly wage and that the State contribution of the winner of the Paralympic Games would be 0.65 times the average monthly wage (according to the Statistical Office, the average wage paid in Estonia in the year preceding the payment of the grant). The new rate of support may not be lower than the rate in force. The representative of the Ministry of Culture explained that the grant provision has been in the Sport Act since 2005 and has been in force for 10 years. A person who has won the Olympic Games may apply for an allowance on the basis of age (ten years before the age of retirement as laid down in the State Pension Insurance Act) or on the basis of permanent incapacity for work (from the finding of permanent incapacity for work in accordance with the procedure laid down in the National Pension Insurance Act, if the loss of work capacity is at least 40%). On the basis of age, 10 people receive support, and there are no beneficiaries in Estonia due to the condition of loss of ability to work. Margus Klaan, who was a representative of the Ministry of Culture at the Commission, added that the next winner of the Paralympic Games, who could receive support by age, could receive it from 2029 onwards, and the next winner of the Olympic Award may receive it on the basis of the age of the beneficiary in November 2019. The representatives of both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Culture expressed the view during the discussion that the grants for the winners of the Olympics and the Paralympic Games could be equal in size. According to a representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance prefers the solution to ensure that the amount of the grant is not fixed in the Sport Act, but that its amount is determined by analogy in the section of the Annual State Budget Act with the amount of several other grants. The requirement of the Sport Act is that it must not be less than last year. The questions and discussions on the subject were followed by the members of the Commission. Indeed, issues of equality or inequality were also discussed, various arguments were heard, but the position was not finalised by the Committee on Culture because it was decided to discuss these issues before the second reading. There was also a request for clarification on the eligibility of the winner of the Paralympic Games, whether it is still taking place from 2029 onwards or whether there are some further details. We'll probably get an answer on that before we read the second one. However, those present found this bill to be very important. Opinions were also expressed to protect the coefficients, precisely because for ten years this subsidy has remained the same, although it would have been possible to increase this rate according to the wording of the current law, but if the coefficient is not stated in the law, there is no particular pressure to do so. Here too was the question of why this has not been done. There was also an extremely difficult time in this period, which we know under the name of the mask. In fact, perhaps five years later, the amount of aid could have been reviewed, but then it was mainly a reduction. I am pleased that there was no reduction in the order of magnitude that was already in force at that time. So these were the discussions that took place in the Commission. However, a consensual proposal was made to put the draft on the plenary agenda. As I mentioned earlier, the first proposal was to put it on the agenda by 6 June, but later it was decided to amend it by 8 June. It was decided to propose the termination of the first reading (as well as a consensual decision). The proposal to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 22 June also received the support of all those present. To conclude the debate, there was a consensual knowledge that this was a very good draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U124	Thanks to the waitress! You have questions. First Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U125	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I agree. I already told the first waitress that this was a very good bill. But let me stick to my opinion. The first waitress also pointed out that these were competitions of different weight. You could paraphrase and say that they are also people with different abilities or people with partially limited abilities compete in the Paralympic Games. The previous rapporteur pointed out that this measure was intended to safeguard old age and to guarantee income at that time. These people would certainly need equal support, perhaps even more support for the winners of the Paralympic Games. At present, they are undoubtedly less supported. But there's gonna be a second reading of the bill. Do you also address the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and other such organisations for your opinion? The draft is excellent, but I have the question of equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U126	Thank you. First of all, of course, you have the right to stick to your opinion and it is good that it is so certain. We are announcing here today the possibility of proposing amendments, and absolutely everyone will be able to table these proposals before the second reading. We did not discuss whether we would address one organisation or another specifically. I believe that we are willing to discuss all the proposals. If we propose to someone to express their opinion, someone else might wonder why they did not ask him personally. So all the proposals are welcome, 22 June is a deadline and can give your opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U127	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U128	I would like to add a remark to what I also insisted on in my report. This is not just about providing additional income for old age or securing old age. I certainly didn't want to say that. Rather, it is supplementary insurance for health, additional care or, in fact, rehabilitation. In the last 12 years, we have seen that two Olympic winners have had to sell their Olympic owls because of their health.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U129	Thanks for the remark! I'm having a hard time adding something here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U130	No further questions. Once again, thank you to the waitress. Now I'm opening negotiations. First, please speak to Toomas Jürgenstein! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U131	Good President! Good drafters! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thank you very much! This is a bill that we will probably have no doubt about in the main direction. But it is also a highly emotional bill because the Olympic winners have given us all tremendous emotions with their achievements. Personally, I feel that my first memories of television, this blue moving object somewhere in the corner of the room, are connected to the Olympic winner Jaan Talts. A determined and complete commitment is a prerequisite for winning the Olympic gold. In my view, it is absolutely obvious that society will remember the person who has won the Olympic gold until his death. But in my speech, I will focus on the fact that, indeed, under the current draft, the contribution to the winner of the Paralympic Games is 65% of the support from the Olympic Winner. I can already say that this issue can be approached differently; it is, in a sense, a question based on world-view foundations. But first and foremost, I would like to stress the dynamic change in society's perceptions, the recognition of people's differences and the provision of equal opportunities for people, which may be the basis of socialist positions. I begin by saying that, in reality, not everyone has always been able to participate in the Olympic Games. Only free people took part in the anti-Cympics, and only men competed in Athens in 1896 at the first modern Olympics. Women were added to Paris in 1900. If it were now 1935 and we were discussing support for the Olympic participants, then it would only be about supporting men in Estonia. Estonian women reached the Olympics, in fact the Winter Olympics, in 1936 in Garmisch-Partenkirchen. I also name names: they were figure skater Helene Michelson and mountain skier Karin Peckert-Forsman. When society developed and it was recognised that society was made up of men and women, it was understood that women have the same right to compete in the Olympics as men. While in 1992 there were 35 other countries not represented by women in the Olympics, in 2008 there were three of them, and in 2012 there were no more. Although women's distance jumps and runners are shorter or slower than men's, there is no doubt that women are the same Olympic winners as men. As far as I know, riding is the only area where men and women compete together in the Olympics. Speaking of people with disabilities, I'm going back to history. The Olympic Games began in 776 B.C.E., and during the first Olympic Games there were highly successful Spartan Polise contestants. Sparta was a powerful city where every man was a warrior, but there was also a darker side. When a boy was born, the body of elders, or geruusia, looked at the child born. Invalid, sick, and too weak children were left to die on the hillside or thrown off a cliff. The disability contrasted directly with the ideal of society, which at that time was very well aligned with the Olympic ideal. In the intervening 2,500 years, we have come to the recognition of people with disabilities as full members of society. Yes, it has been a long journey, there have been many setbacks, but the goal has been that the value and dignity of a person should be preserved and protected despite his peculiarity. In the Olympic movement we have also reached a situation where the Olympic ideals are also open to disabled people at the Paralympic Games. It seems to me that we would take another step and also recognise the development of society towards humanity if support under our draft had been the same for the best athletes at both the Olympic Games and the Paralympic Games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U132	Helmut Hallemaa, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U133	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate my good colleague, Jüri Jaanson, in two keys. On my question, I have already said that it is certainly not as long ago as Jüri twice offered us Olympic ambitions. It is a pity, of course, that you missed the gold, so it is certainly worth discussing all the Olympic hangars, including the silver or bronze athletes, for future support. Secondly, I also congratulate you on bringing this matter up and bringing it to the hall. It is a pity that the Olympic organisation, the Olympic Committee, and probably the people who worked in this Chamber have not been so loud in the intervening years, because this support certainly needs to be brought into line with life. How, whether to do it with an index or in any other way, is definitely the subject of the debate, and that is what we can have together. I don't have such a colorful approach as Toomas Jürgenstein before me, but it's very right that both athletes, the winner of the Olympic Games and the winner of the Paralympic Games, despite their different backgrounds, they've achieved different results, and they have different achievements, are still Olympic winners. Perhaps the sections of this bill should not include Article 21, but could point out as two separate points that one is the Olympic winner and the other is the winner of the Paralympic Games. I don't think it's a good comparison. We have already made one step, and we have brought the winner of the Paralympic Games into this draft text, but in fact it would also deserve to take the next step and make progress. From the speech by my good colleague Laine Randjärv, I understood that the Commission was debating that it was only in 2029 that the winners of the Paralympic Games could benefit from this support. It appears from the explanatory memorandum that at least those who prepare the draft have found that there should be three winners of the Paralympic Games and ten Olympic winners coming under this category next year. These figures are certainly important; the amounts are not as important as looking at the entire state budget. This issue is certainly important, needs to be resolved, and is basically supported by our group of ambassadors. I am convinced that we will resolve this matter in the near future. Although we have not had a vote, and I do not think it is necessary here, our majority opinion is moving in the direction that the winners of the Paralympic Games, without even looking at the background, deserve the same support in the future bill. Surely the Olympic winners and other athletes are our ambassadors. It was Jüri, today Anett Kontaveit is a very good Estonian ambassador in the world. I would not take it as such support; rather, it is still the continued commitment and recognition of our country to those people who, at the height of their abilities, have represented Estonia and brought fame to Estonia. It is our duty to support them in their future lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U134	Thank you. Andres Ammas next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U135	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U136	I'm sorry! Laine Randjärv is a procedural question. Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U137	Since we are negotiating, and my name was called the previous speaker, I just want to make it clear with a reply that when I spoke from 2029, I quoted the representative of the Ministry of Culture, I did not say that was my position. Mr Hallemaa said that three athletes were mentioned in the explanatory memorandum and so on. I mentioned that we had a debate in the Commission on whether this is really the case. In short, for the sake of the accuracy of the verbatim, I would just say that this was not my position, but I quoted the information that was available.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U138	Thank you for this addition. Now Andres Ammas has five minutes to speak again. He also has three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U139	Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group, of course, supports this draft and considers it important and necessary. I take this opportunity to thank my group for allowing me, on behalf of the group, to speak on one of my favourite subjects. This bill is of practical importance to the specific Olympic hangars, their living conditions, but it is of greater importance to all of us, all of us in Estonia, from the point of view of the sporting propaganda, from the point of view of encouraging young people to engage in sport. Every Olympic victory comes with a beautiful success story; these stories need to be told over and over again. Increasing support is also one way of valuing these beautiful Estonian stories. That is why I am adding an idea here today, at an early stage, that the Committee on Culture, in particular, but, of course, all ladies and gentlemen, could seriously consider this idea and hopefully consider it feasible. Last year, Paul Keres was officially a year in the chess world. We all felt that we felt a little better because the International Malefederal Federation decided so. We have seen a reflection of the fate of our small country on Paul Kerese's sports road. I have boasted that Estonia has been known to be the only country in the world to place a chess player on its banknote when I go abroad and meet friends abroad. But in practical things, we've been a little more inert in recording Paul Keres' memory. The recording of Keres' memory in Tallinn city space is in a poor state. I am pleased that our new colleague, Tarmo Kruusimäe, has taken this as one of the key issues of his autumn elections. We have the 'Male in School' programme, but it does not yet cover the majority of Estonian schools. Chess is not a dignified elective in our school program. Our entire chess propaganda is rather modest when compared to other small countries, even the Caucasus. Today, sport historical facts have already been brought here, and I might add some of my fellow Members' surprising knowledge that small Armenia has come three times in the last 15 years as a team winner of the Chess Olympics in front of the great powers. Through chess, a small country can make itself bigger. Speaking of Kerese's achievements today, when discussing this bill, it is fitting to recall that, next to everything else, Paul Keres was a seven-time Olympic winner. He competed on the Soviet team, true, in the Chess Olympics. Of course, Keres was not a backup player or a statisticist on this team, but was still one of the best on his desk. Chess has been applied for Olympial status since 1924. Just as the Estonian Male Alliance is a member of the Estonian Olympic Committee, so the International Malefederation has been a member of the International Olympic Committee since 1999. In particular, the overburdening of the Olympic programme has prevented chess from reaching the Olympics, and perhaps the fact that it is difficult to organise a proper chess tournament quickly enough for the Olympics. Of course, the fact that it is attractive to show the chess competition on television is not a minor thing today. But the chess Olympics have been an independent competition for 90 years. More than 150 teams and more than 100 women today take part in it, so competition is tough. This is not a competition that bears the name of the Olympics only out of vanity. This is a competition in which the Olympic ideals, which my colleague Jüri Jaanson spoke nicely about, are well represented. I say to my colleague Jüri, who is a fun little midwive: today's top-level chess also requires a good physical form and one part of the preparation of the top chess player is undoubtedly a gym. Paul Kerest is no longer a winner of the Olympics, but we now have a lively winner of the Chess Olympics, Jaan Ehlvest, who joined the Soviet team as an Olympic winner in 1988. This result occurred at the height of Jaan Ehlvest's chess career when he was the third-fourth man after Kasparov and Karpov in the world during a certain period. At the World Cup Competitions that year, Ehlves was the fourth. The fact that Jaan Ehlves was chosen as the best athlete in Estonia in 1987 and 1989 illustrates what a chess place was in Estonian sport and in the public at the time. But, as I said before, the question is not so much whether Ehlvest should necessarily be added to the ranks of the dignified people who receive support from the state. The question is whether our actions value Estonian chess, whether we create an additional motivation for young people, that it is worth taking the difficult course of a chess professional, because when you reach the top, you will be awarded dignity. I am going to say in a preconceived way here that I intend to propose an amendment to this draft, specifically on this second point, so that the allowance of 0.65 times the average gross monthly wage could in future also be the winner of the chess olympics. The framework of the previous sports law has been discussed here today. I'm using a shape that doesn't have to be broken, a little mustache, some renovation. That's what we can do. I really hope for broad support for this proposal. Chess is an integral part of Estonian sport and culture. So, as Iivo Nei loved to say, dear chess friends! I hope that we will take this small step for us, which means about EUR 10000 per year, but a big step for Estonian chess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U140	Lauri Swan next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U141	Ladies and gentlemen, Obviously none of us doubt that increasing the support of the Olympic winner in parallel with the increase in the cost of living is an elementary and sensible step. That's why, George, I thank you for taking this thing on your own, even though it doesn't really concern you! Although I was really expecting an Olympic gold from you, but that's a whole other subject. I'd like to settle a little of the recognition issues that went through the previous questions and speeches. Recognition and support for the Olympic winner are two slightly different things in my eyes. Although the support of the Olympic winner is also a tribute or recognition, we still have separate recognition options. We have the Life Work Prize that we share every year, and the annual prize and the Year of Sports Stars will receive the same recognition as one-off, and, after each Olympic victory or Olympic medal, the country will also remember our Olympic athletes, they will be Paralympic athletes or Olympic athletes. So one-off national recognition will be granted to all medal owners anyway. The other side is the support of the Olympic winner, which we are talking about in the context of the current draft. In a classic sense, it is not social support in my eyes, but, as I mentioned, it is a tribute to life's work and the good emotions that an Olympic athlete has offered to society as a whole. I think that's what it's supposed to be. It was mentioned here that Paralympic athletes deserve even more support. I fully agree that they deserve special attention because of their state of health, but I would leave this out of the context of the current draft and address it completely separately. We have a number of social measures to help people with disabilities. So this should be done differently. I assume that, when the predecessor of this draft was prepared, it was knowingly done to exclude social aspects. I support the previous speaker's idea that the winners of the chess Olympics could also be mentioned here. I really hope they come for us! But indeed, at least that's how I've made up my mind when doing sports and reading this philosophy for myself, it's who's stronger, it wins. In humanity, at least I will deal with it, both men and women, and at the Olympic Games, we will compete on the basis of which men and women are stronger, and on this basis we will reward them. Disabled people are perfectly ordinary people, as we emphasise everywhere, and therefore, in a classical sense, they should go under the same logic. But since the Olympic Games emphasize humanity and sport in particular as a general principle of such philosophy, it must be borne in mind that the Paralympic Games are under the same roof, but the separate games still take place and a fundamental line is drawn between them. It makes sense that we remember the winners of the Paralympic Games in the draft, as they have been remembered in the current regulation. I think it makes sense that there is a fundamental difference: the Olympic winner will receive support at one rate and the winner of the Paralympic Games supported for solidarity reasons, or even the Male Olympic winner will have a different coefficient. In this respect, I support the idea of the initiator of the draft. To sum up, I would also like to stress that all the amendments, as Mr Jüri himself and Laine mentioned, are welcome. If there are any ideas on how we can make this draft even better or more sensible, we will certainly be open to them. But the general principles, in my opinion, could remain the way they have been, because they have been debated in the past. I don't think it makes any sense for us to change these fundamentals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-08_U142	Thank you. There's no more words. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 426. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 426 amendments. June 22, 5.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.57 p.m.
