ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the third working week of the first plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U2	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, a number of people were certainly interested in what the government decided to restructure the pension system in connection with the plan. As a result, several members of the Reform Party will report to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on pension reform, in particular on the first pillar, where the income-dependent part of people is to be replaced by only part of the years worked. We wonder why the government makes such a change, why it promotes the payment of small wages. Why is it decided to punish one quarter of people? That's a pretty big part of the population. Why do better people have to lose? We are hoping for substantive answers to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U3	On behalf of the Government of the Republic, Aivar Rahno, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft customs law. Sven Sester, Minister of Finance, represents the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing this draft. Secondly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Punished Persons by the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the government when dealing with this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two draft laws and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! Eighty-four MPs will be present at the plenary session, no 17. Adoption of the agenda follows. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda for the third working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 65 delegates in favour of the draft agenda, with two abstentions. This week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U6	Let's go to today's agenda. Enquiry submitted by Mart Helme, Martin Helme, Henn Põlleaasa, Uno Kaskpeiti, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Silla, on finding a large amount of contraband from a mine hunter Sakala. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see a minister right now. Ah, it's here. Minister, thank you very much. Yeah, we have some questions about the smuggling of a miner named Sakala. To refresh memory, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board found large quantities of untaxed secret alcohol and cigarettes on board the Estonian navy mine hunter Sakala on 17 November 2016. Unfortunately, this was far from the first time the Estonian navy had fallen into trouble with the law. For example, in 1998 the boat Mardus was shot to the bottom because of a misguided pump. In 2002, the later chief and high officer of the Marine School dealt with their body problems directly on the ship's deck. In 2010, two officers were convicted of criminal procurement. There are other accusations, such as information from the press about drinking and other incidents in the navy. In this context, we ask the Minister of Defence to answer our questions on the basis of § 139 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. The questions are as follows: One: "Why hasn't anyone on the Sakala team been held accountable so far, but the ship immediately returned to the mission? ' Second: 'Although Naval Commander Sten Sepper made a request for resignation related to him, which was accepted, he immediately received a new high post at the General Staff of the Defence Forces. Doesn't that make taking responsibility hypocritical, and doesn't refer to buddy relationships in the military leadership? ' Thirdly, what is the human resources policy of the Estonian Navy and the general moral situation in which there is a violation of laws and a mentally unhealthy atmosphere that resembles the Soviet-era 'dedovschina' and the disorder? " Fourthly: " How does the navy support the activities of our other troops in a situation of military conflict? Fifth: " What are we going to do to improve the situation in the Navy? ' We thank the Minister in advance for his comprehensive answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U8	Defence Minister Margus Tsahkna will answer the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu, good heirs! As in any family, there are good and bad moments in the Defence Forces. As regards, in particular, the case of Sakala under mine control, any such event which undermines the image of the Defence Forces requires a very clear condemnation. I must acknowledge that the Defence Forces, including the Navy, resigned from their duties by sending a very clear message that whatever is in this particular case, this content will be examined. The Defence Forces take very seriously all cases that could damage and have damaged the entire image of the Defence Forces. The heirs have asked me several questions and I will answer them in the order in which they are presented. First of all, "Why hasn't anyone on the Sakala team been held accountable so far, but the ship immediately returned to the mission? 'The case of Sakala under mine control has been the subject of criminal proceedings under the direction of the Tax and Customs Board. Disciplinary proceedings have also been initiated by the military police in the Defence Forces. Today, both the navy commander and the commander of the Sakala vessel have resigned. We have promised our allies that this mine hunter will operate within the NATO mine control group until 30 June, including the ship itself, will not bear the blame of any marines and will therefore be free to return to the mission area. We keep our promises to our allies. This particular incident has been ethically assessed by the Defence Forces and the specific circumstances will be investigated as foreseen. The second question: 'Although the Naval Commander Sten Sepper made a request for resignation relating to him, which was accepted, he immediately received a new high position at the General Staff of the Defence Forces. Doesn't that make taking responsibility hypocritical, and doesn't refer to buddy relationships in the military leadership? ' Both Captain Sepper and Major Laanemets of the Navy are now in a much lower position than their rank and previous careers require. The reference to buddy relationships is certainly inappropriate in this context. If an investigation should be established and a later court based on investigative material should decide that there is a basis for dismissing someone, it will be done. You can count on it. This is decided by the court in the Republic of Estonia, whose decisions are independent of the Riigikogu and its enquiries. Third: "What is the human resources policy of the Estonian Navy and the general moral situation in which there is a violation of laws and a mentally unhealthy atmosphere that resembles the Soviet-era 'dedovischina' and the disorder? ' First of all, I recommend that the political parties represented in the Riigikogu do not label the Estonian Defence Forces, because the defence policy of the Republic of Estonia and the Defence Forces of the Republic of Estonia have been above party politics, and I recommend that we do not deal rashly with the violation of the image of the Defence Forces. The Navy is not a separate part of the Defence Forces and so there is no human resources policy separate from the Defence Forces. The Navy is based on the values of the Defence Forces, such as honesty, courage, cooperation and openness. The reference to Soviet organisational culture is, in my opinion, defamatory and I believe that the parties represented in the Riigikogu should refrain from such unfounded important political definitions. The next question: 'How does the navy support the activities of our other troops in a situation of military conflict? ' The development of the navy is carried out in accordance with the long-term national defence development plan, which takes into account all possible risk scenarios as well as the limited opportunities of a small country like Estonia. The navy contributes mainly to the general fighting capability of the Defence Forces through mine-fighting operations. In addition, the Port of Mine is able to accept the foundations of NATO and the Allied States and to provide the necessary port services. All in all, we are developing our abilities, which are important in the event of a crisis, so that allies can bring reinforcements to Estonia. Mine control capabilities are central to ensuring the ability of the allies to receive, in a situation where a potential opponent has blocked access by launching mines in our maritime space. At the same time, I consider it important that the Baltic Sea uses more joint planning of marine capabilities. We will not be able to develop all the capabilities necessary for a maritime war on our own, just as no other Baltic Sea country can do on its own. In cooperation, we will be able to better coordinate the capacity development plans needed to ensure the security of the Baltic Sea and thus better ensure the maritime security of Estonia. And the last question: "What are we going to do to improve the situation in the Navy? " In the light of the incident, the Navy's leadership has spoken to the staff and announced that the Navy will not tolerate such behaviour. The resignation of the commander of the navy commander and of the anti-mine-based Sakala commander has given a very clear message that the Defence Forces will also bear responsibility if the defence forces' reputation is damaged. Certainly, what has happened is an additional lesson for us, in the light of which we will take the necessary internal control measures. These measures are still in place, subject to random checks, but they need to be done more effectively and more effectively. The fact that the navy commander resigns shows that the navy takes these measures and decisions very seriously at management level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U10	The first question to the Minister on this subject is put by Uno Kaskpeit. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Your speech gave the impression that someone wanted, as if, to defy the Defence Forces. I'm sorry, they're doing stupid things! A great chief plays a crusader, a shipload of brothers breaking the law and carrying contraband to the harbor. No one else will. But my question is this: how can an investigation or investigation be carried out when the crew were in port for two days and then the ship sailed away? Now you're saying the investigation is ongoing. Is it Skype Road or what? Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U12	Thank you, good questioner! Once again: I am not even the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, but rather the citizen of the Republic of Estonia also urge you not to label the Estonian Defence Forces. There will certainly be situations in every large organisation where self-criticism and measures are required by law to find out the truth and the guilty and make them take responsibility in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. However, as Minister for Defence, I would like to say that criminal proceedings have been initiated on the initiative of the Tax and Customs Board and are currently under way. It is not my business to comment on the details of the current procedure here on the floor of the Riigikogu. I trust the law enforcement bodies of the Republic of Estonia; I trust the judicial system of the Republic of Estonia. If specific actions have been identified, if guilt and judgments have been found, then you can be sure that the Defence Forces will make very harsh decisions against those who are guilty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U13	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In your answer, you used a figure that compared the Defence Forces to the family. My question was, what is this navy? Is he a father or a mother or a son? How is the Defence Forces divided into a family model? But perhaps the more awkward question: how do you assess the purchase of mine hunters, which must have been done in rather money-rich years? In retrospect, could this money have been used more effectively?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U15	Thank you, good questioner! I'm gonna leave this family picture to your own fantasy. However, the attitude is that there is nothing stand-alone in the navy. He's part of our Defence Forces, subject to all the same rules and laws as the Defence Forces. Perhaps in history, it has been tried to bring out the navy in some way and to view it in some way as a sign. But I am pleased that the Estonian defence forces make up a large family as a whole. It includes the Defence Forces, it includes the Defence League, it includes volunteers who contribute to Estonia's defence capabilities, and it includes all Estonian people in general, no matter what role they play in this imaginary family model. The point is, this is our home we're protecting. Everyone is responsible for this and the weakest link must be helped. If it is somebody's malice, he must be punished in accordance with the law. Take someone out separately and disparage one or the other part of our defence forces. This must not, in particular, be done by politicians. At the same time, I can assure you that the Defence Forces are taking a harsh view of all those who harm the reputation of our defence forces. I can tell you that punishments are harsh when proven guilty by law. As far as developing mine control capacity is concerned, it is consciously at the level of the Riigikogu in the course of disputes, as well as the capacity chosen by experts. It is clear that, as a small country, we cannot develop the capacity to wage a sea war on our own in all directions. In order for the allies to reach Estonian ports to protect our territory, including our maritime territory, the necessary conditions need to be created. Mine control is a very important prerequisite for allies to come here. Our mine ships are highly valued and this is the real support we give to our allies. That is also the answer to one question why this ship did not stop in this port. We have very specific agreements with our allies, and Sakala, a mine control vessel, will carry out its specific tasks as part of the NATO mine control group until 30 June. So we're developing our specific capabilities, which we're contributing to working with our allies. Also, given its independent defence capabilities, it is important to keep access routes at sea clean from mines in crisis situations. In this way, we can ensure that the allies are really present and thus that Estonia is actually protected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U16	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U17	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. If you're confused about what's so exciting about us here, it's just that our electronic taboo is starting to live on its own. But I'm asking you this. You have confirmed that severe penalties will come and that investigative authorities will deal with this. First of all, isn't there some kind of internal investigation being conducted by the defense forces? Secondly, do we really need to pursue such legal formalism, that we wait for the penalties first, and then we are just starting to make assessments? As a minister, would you be willing to make a moral assessment of what has happened here? At present, there has been no evidence of this moral assessment, for people who have obviously behaved unworthy have actually been promoted or, at least, taken away from sight, and not into a worse position. This is not in line with what we have been talking about in Estonia about civil control for 20 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U18	Thank you. The Defence Forces responded to the primary information by resigning the navy commander. And the Sakala commander, under mine control, resigned as well. This shows a very clear moral assessment. Now what happened specifically and who is responsible for the rule of law must first and foremost be found by law enforcement authorities and this work is currently in progress. Do not interfere with policies that are in line with the rule of law: the relevant bodies are doing their job under the law, and I trust them. And secondly, disciplinary proceedings have been initiated in the Defence Forces, and this is also a work in progress. I am sure that the results of this procedure will also be obtained in the near future and that decisions will be taken accordingly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U19	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I would like to offer some basic explanations on the functioning of democracy and the rule of law. In the rule of law, it is Parliament's task to make inquiries about such matters and not to let the coalition cover up cases. This is the rule of law. The principles of the rule of law and the accuracy of the trial have not been questioned by us here in any way. However, we doubt that the defence forces have acted in the most sensible, fairest and most transparent way. My question in this regard is as follows: should it not have been necessary to suspend the activities of these officers in the armed forces by the time the investigation is under way and the prosecution's office and the court have not reached final conclusions and penalties? Right now, they're moving on, and we don't know what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U21	Good questioner! In the course of this question, there was already political labelling of the Defence Forces, which I do not want to go along with, and I do not intend to go along with. Neither the opposition nor the coalition are the political forces who somehow deliver in the Estonian Defence Forces. And I strongly recommend: if you think about Estonia's defence capabilities, avoid political attacks and deal with the facts, as required by the law of the Republic of Estonia and the law of the Republic of Estonia. Moral responsibility has been assumed, with the resignation of the Commander of the Navy and also of the Commander of the concrete ground, a very clear message has been given. I have no doubt that the criminal proceedings initiated by the Tax and Customs Board will be conducted objectively and all the data that is needed will also be collected. It is also very important that we keep our promises before the NATO allies. We did not consider it necessary that, in this investigation, this ship be excluded from the work of a very important mine defence group. So things are balanced and civil control is guaranteed. Please do not make the Defence Forces the subject of political attacks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U22	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! According to the information I know, Estonian marines, like the marines of all other countries, have a perfectly legitimate opportunity to purchase duty-free goods from foreign ports, including alcohol and cigarettes, while on a foreign mission. There's nothing illegal about it. Am I to understand that this time the question was not that there were alcohol and cigarettes on the ship, but that the question was, according to the media, in large quantities? If you split it up on the crew, maybe it wouldn't be illegal at all. How do you comment on this statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U24	Thank you. Indeed, there is a question of quantities that are not allowed to be brought to land. There are certain restrictions. If you are interested, the law allows travellers from outside the European Union, or from a third country to Estonia, free of tax to bring goods worth up to 300 euros, air and sea passengers up to 430 euros. Those rules apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U25	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Between 1918 and 1940 there was a system of military courts in Estonia and there was also military penal law applicable to military courts. In most of our allied countries, it still exists. What is your position, perhaps it would be worth restoring it in Estonia as well? The aim would be precisely to deal with such issues, such offences. What do our militia recommend?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U27	Thank you, good questioner! There is a procedure for conducting disciplinary proceedings of the Defence Forces in Estonia. I do not consider it necessary to create a separate judicial system for all areas. This is specifically the case of Sakala, a mine control vessel, and this is primarily a case in the field of the Tax and Customs Board. If these volumes exceed what is permitted, the case will be dealt with in criminal proceedings. I think it is quite sufficient, in every way professional and impartial procedure. But while you have already raised this issue, I will say that one of the issues we are dealing with is how to ensure that Estonia has a wider wartime trial during the crisis. This is one of the topics with which the Ministry of Justice and the Government will hopefully come to the Riigikogu in the next few years. This needs to be considered in Estonia, and I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court are working very closely together on this matter. So, more generally, the issue you have raised is very important, especially from this point of view, that Estonia may actually face a crisis situation, that is to say, a war situation. We must also ensure that society operates at a completely different pace, speedy and objective justice. So this is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U28	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U29	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Yes, your answers clearly understand that the situation is complicated. The ship has to be on the water, and I don't think he can get there without the men. So it's hard to carry out criminal investigations, investigate. But the question is this: is it customary for the Tax and Customs Board to inspect such ships, or was it a unique case, and was there an immediate violation of the law? Could this indicate that the information existed and that it was not the first such ride?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U30	Thank you. As you will understand, I cannot go into the details of a particular case. The impartiality of the procedure must be ensured. But the Tax and Customs Board carries out random checks on various bases. That's what the Tax and Customs Board does.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U31	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U32	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have a question about the capacity of public authorities to cooperate. In the autumn, I was able to travel on the same day under the PBA and under the Navy. The scissors were very large. The Navy has a fleet built in the early 1990s, the PBA has only ten years old vessels. And there's also a difference between mentality and purpose, why they're at sea. Those in the Navy have very clear goals and goals, they know what to do, but the EPA left it to be desired. What is your mutual cooperation? For example, if there is a natural disaster, let's not talk about a human disaster, then they should be out for one thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U33	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, a great deal has been asked about the fact that we do not have the latest ships. This also applies to the same mine ships. But they're very good, and they're very professional. The main task of the Navy is to ensure the protection of Estonia. This is primarily about developing common capabilities. Exercises and missions will be organised in cooperation with our NATO allies to be prepared, if necessary, to act in real danger. As far as border guards are concerned, indeed, the functions are different. But I can assure you that cooperation, exchange of information and joint exercises are all day-to-day activities. So we're trying to use this, not perhaps the greatest of our marine capabilities, together to the maximum and with the overall picture in front of our eyes. Although, yes, the tasks are a little different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you. In the meantime, in the order in which the electronic taboo appeared and the question was asked, it made its own corrections. Are there others among you who have wanted to ask a question but have not received it? Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned in your reply that the Defence Forces are focusing more on internal control on this issue, as it is intended to avoid similar situations. Where has special attention been focused and will internal control in the Estonian Defence Forces extend significantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U36	Thank you, good questioner! Each such case emphasizes the moral responsibilities of the Defence Forces. And having communicated with a lot of militia myself, I can assure you that this issue will be taken very seriously. Being a member of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Estonia is a matter of honour and this work is done not for money, but because they are also prepared to protect Estonia at the risk of life. Our defence forces are very professional, but also in this big organization, sometimes something happens that doesn't do them the honor. However, we are not going to make any huge internal control revolution yet. We have learned a lesson and lessons need to be drawn from it. It doesn't do anyone any honor. In the interests of protecting the uniform, there will certainly be a strong willingness to contribute and to carry out carefully the activities foreseen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U37	I see there are no more requests to ask. Thank you for your answers, Minister. I'm opening a round of negotiations. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U38	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am not at all satisfied with the Minister's answers. I am disturbed by a few very important aspects. One of the things is, of course, that I do not know whether, deliberately or accidentally, the criticism of responsibility for a particular case and of the entire Defence Forces is confusing. It is as if we are criticising the Estonian Defence Forces or the people serving in the Estonian Defence Forces more widely. No, we're not criticizing! We are criticizing the disorder that has occurred in the Navy. And we criticise this inadequate response, in our view, which has followed this initiative, which we call civilian control. We remember that in time, as the highest leader of national defence, the President was taken away from any real levers in the Constitution precisely by saying that there is a need to ensure more effective civil control in Estonia. Let us remember how President Meri, who had actual and direct control of the Defence Forces, reacted to the disturbances and disturbances discovered in the military, such as the Kurks disaster. It was a much more adequate reaction than what we are seeing right now. I am not satisfied with the fact that there is an agreement in Estonia that national defence is a 'cross-party' issue, on which it is not possible to speak in the context of internal politics. Please let us not confuse the fact that we support 2% of GDP Estonia's membership of NATO, etc., with the fact that we must not say anything if there are shortcomings in the organisation of national defence. This is, of course, part of the democratic governance of the state, that it is brought to the attention and that debate can be held on this issue. To say that there is an investigation going on, and until the investigation is completed, there is nothing to say or say or guess, that is, in fact, a rejection of responsibility. This is a drive for responsibility farther in the hope that the issue will fall away and that assessments can be omitted at all. But we need a minister's assessment. In the round of questions, I did not have time to ask this question, but I am now asking you very clearly: are you satisfied with the way in which the navy is now being led? Are you satisfied with what's going on in the Navy? The Navy has been in scandals before, and it can be said that there are chronic problems. Now another scandal has exploded and just to announce that internal investigations are taking place, law enforcement agencies are operating, is an extremely formalistic approach to things. We want an assessment and we want to see that the people responsible for this, perhaps the Minister and the Commander of the Defence Forces, take a very clear position on this issue and send a very clear signal to the whole structure so that such behaviour is not tolerated. And the penalties that follow should not be merely symbolic manoeuvring, pointing fingers, from one place to another. The penalties should be severe. There's been talk of a uniform. The uniform would assume that people are putting uniforms on their pags and no more contact with this system because they have smeared their name and there is nothing to do about it. So, unfortunately, I have to say that we did not hear from the Minister the words that we expected and which we gave him the opportunity to say during this explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U39	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you noticed that our electronic system is not working. Among other things, it does not show how much time the speaker has spent. I took time for this speech with my watch. I am sorry, but as chair of the sitting, I will take a ten-minute technical break, after which we will proceed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U40	Ladies and gentlemen, If you want to make a speech, please re-identify yourself in the system. In the meantime, we did the restorative. You know, people used to say you can't fight machines. Our electronic guru proved it's okay. We can continue. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U41	Yeah, the computer doesn't get faith! President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is serious. The subject is discipline, responsibility, including political responsibility. From the answers given by the Minister, we understood that the Defence Forces must not be pierced. It's like a non-social thing, a thing above society, and if anything unpleasant is done there, for God's sakes, we close our eyes, we turn our eyes aside, we close our eyes, we let it go, because it's the Defence Forces. It can't be that the Defence Forces can do anything! If the Defence Forces are in a state of disorder, there are violations, the defence forces that are involved in them will have to take responsibility for them. The Minister insisted on the facts. But the facts are obvious! The fact is, they found contraband on the ship. The fact is, the whole team was aware of it. Why is that a fact? But because it's such a small ship, it's not possible for two brothers to carry tobacco and cigarette sauces on their laps, and that's how dozens of times the quay and the ship go between them, and then they put the boxes in empty places, I don't know, cabins or hold. It's just not possible on a ship that small. Consequently, the fact is that all the crew members were aware of this. And now it's up to the investigative authorities to find out if they were all involved in smuggling or not. In any case, it is clear that the captain is responsible for these matters in such circumstances. In any case, it is clear that the navy leader, as the highest leader, is responsible for such a situation. Let us ask another question, which is also based on the fact. Why did the Tax and Customs Board go to check on this particular ship on that particular day? And let's answer in common sense, because they got a signal. This indicates that it is likely that this was not the first case, but that it was a regular practice involving abuse of its position and resources belonging to the State. Of course, we can't sign an indictment right now. It is up to the Public Prosecutor's Office and other relevant bodies to make these matters clear. But these are facts that at least need to be verified. Now. It's like the Defence Forces, the Department of Defense, and also the Secretary of Defense, sayin' I'm sorry if I'm wrong to say that! just admitting the ship to be used in this way. Even if it were a personal amount, it would still be strange to view it as if we shared this amount of crew members, there is nothing criminal. All right, let's kill one person now and share the responsibility between everyone in this hall! Well, then it turns out that maybe it was just a little side-by-side. It can't be! There are specific people who organise it specifically. There was supposed to be a market to sell it all to. Must have been the source to buy the goods with profit, etc. Hey, we weren't born into this world yesterday! These things don't work like this, so if we split it up, it's okay. Don't say such a stupid thing! It's just insulting to sane people. We now come to the point that this is a warship belonging to the Republic of Estonia. It's a joint property of all of us. It's not the captain's property, it's not the crew's property. The crew were on board the ship with the captain to carry out military duties. They carried out these tasks, but, among other things, abused a state-owned instrument for personal gain. This is, in fact, a case of corruption that needs to be thoroughly investigated, assessed and sanctioned where necessary, whether disciplinary or other. So, to sum up, we're not gonna hurt the Defence Forces. We are very proud that NATO exercises and our hedgehogs, spring storms and Utria deserts show very good results. We're proud of that! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I'm almost done. But we cannot tolerate the fact that there are people who abuse their position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U42	Mr Minister, you have an opportunity to speak at the end of the negotiations. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U43	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good members of the Riigikogu! Actually, it's unfortunate what's going on in this hall right now. I know that you are a very good demagogue, but your party has set the goal of standing up for the Estonian nation state and you should think about what words you say. A very thorough investigation is being carried out on a case-by-case basis. In a particular case, the navy has assumed the highest level of responsibility, the navy commander has resigned and the Sakala commander of the specific vessel in the same way. No one has even tried to take a single little step in the direction of covering something up. On the contrary! A very thorough procedure is being carried out so that the specific parties involved, their actions, and their guilty actions, if any, can be found out and punished in court in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Estonia. The desire to further damage the reputation of the Estonian Defence Forces and to attack it politically is not absolutely understandable to me as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia. Good men, you will be sawing the same big tree, which will protect you as well if Estonia finds itself in a difficult situation. As Minister of Defence, I say that the Defence Forces take very seriously all kinds of cases that somehow damage the reputation of the Defence Forces of the Republic of Estonia when there are people in the Defence Forces who have broken the law. I will tell you here once again to finish this: think, men, carefully through every word of yours before you throw it out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U44	I'm closing the negotiations. That's the answer to today's only question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-23_U45	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone now has the opportunity to register for a speech in the free microphone round after the hammer hit. There are no speakers. Thank you for today's working day, which was somewhat disturbed by technical problems. But sometimes it happens. I'll see you tomorrow morning at ten o'clock right here in the big hall! Closure of the sitting at 15.58 p.m.
