ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 41 members of the Riigikogu have considered it necessary to inform them of their presence in Question Time. Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste and Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt are in briefing today. Askers registered yesterday for seven days, I give you the opportunity to ask for an additional question in the debate on each topic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U2	The first questioner is Kristen Michal and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U3	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! On 6 July this year, you said: 'The European Parliament's Ambassador, Yana Toom, stands for the government of the Centre Party and for our programming positions and principles. " The opposite claims were refuted. Do you still confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U4	Thank you. I am very pleased to have another debate with you here in Question Time. I haven't been able to do this in a long time because you haven't asked questions. I assure you that Yana Toom continues to be a member of the Estonian Central Party, Yana Toom is a member of the elected European Parliament, is a member of the Estonian Central Party, and certainly represents the principles and programming positions of the Estonian Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U5	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U6	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable Prime Minister! Why have you repeatedly had to ask questions about double standards in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U7	Thank you. I certainly do not know the law of the Rules of Procedure and Home of the Riigikogu as well as you do, but I know that I am not in a position to ask questions in this Chamber, I can only answer. You're the questioners. I cannot tell you why so much is being asked about this question, but I will certainly respect the questions of the members of the Riigikogu and answer them. If you ask me that, I'll answer. But to this question, why do you ask so many of these questions, I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U8	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Do you publicly condemn the disparaging messages about Estonia and NATO partners and withdraw from the approval of Yana Toom's activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U10	Thank you. Estonia is and will remain a very active NATO Member State. NATO is extremely important to us from a collective defence aspect. Estonia wishes to continue to belong to NATO. I certainly think that all the views that Estonia should not belong to NATO are wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U12	The next question is for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U13	Thank you. These days, an additional 800 police officers from all over Estonia will be brought to Tallinn in connection with the European Union summit. At the same time, we are in a situation where half of the municipalities have no constables and the number of police patrols is below any minimum. Now their number is decreasing even further. During the summit, how will law enforcement be ensured elsewhere in Estonia, how long will the police response time go to the challenges and how will the security of people be ensured during the time when police officers are gathered in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U14	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu. Good Riigikogu! This is a very important issue. I, too, am aching about it so that, on the one hand, the important events that are currently taking place on our country's soil in connection with the Presidency of the European Union are protected, but on the other hand, Estonia would not suffer. I dare say, first of all, that the extra costs are also taken into account when bringing policemen to Tallinn. After all, the people who come here work most shifts and are rewarded for being invited to work on free days. This money is already planned for spending on the Presidency of the European Union. So on the ground, I dare tell you, security certainly doesn't suffer in any way. You brought in the issue of constables. I would like to recall the promise of the government coalition and the budget to be transferred today, where, for the first time in tens of years, it is foreseen that the number of constables will increase by almost 45, and this is particularly the case in rural areas, plus double manning of the rapid reaction forces. As you can see, the current government is not watching the state of internal security, it is making big plans. Although we are living at the safest time in Estonia's history, we still need to be prepared that at one point the situation may change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U15	Henn Põllaas, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U16	Thank you. Regarding your reply, there are currently seven patrol police officers missing at the West Harju police station and 16 patrol police officers missing at the East Harju police station (a quarter of a million people live in this area). The situation is the same across Estonia. This is being counterbalanced with cadets and auxiliary police, but this is unfortunately not a sustainable solution. The number of police officers, including the number of police students, is decreasing, as the policeman's salary is unfortunately below any record. Perhaps you will also specify what you have done and are doing to normalise the situation and to make sure that in ten years' time, a police officer in Estonia will not be as rare as the aurora.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U17	Thank you. Taking a tail from you, in the last two years, I've seen more aurora in my neighborhood than I've ever seen in my entire life. This, this is my personal observation, maybe I'm just looking more into the sky. But what I'm saying is that your observations are absolutely correct. There's a problem, there's no argument. At the same time, I dare to tell you that this year, for example, the competition at the Police College of the Academy of Home Affairs was very good, four people were present over the years. All the places were filled, there was a choice. That's one side of it. On the other hand, one of the important issues is also the increase in wages for people working in internal security. The budget that is being transferred today also shows that next year the salary fund for people dealing with internal security will increase by 4.5%. Certainly, as a politician, I want this rise to be differentiated. This is precisely because the so-called patrol policeman's work must be made more attractive. For example, from the third to the ninth grade, if I am not mistaken, these are the people who work on the street, the increase in wages is 10%, which is more than twice as high as the overall increase in the payroll. It is one of the tools that can make this agency more attractive. The second thing is certainly that, very soon, we will come to the Chamber of Riigikogu with several drafts that will allow the police to use the time much better, I mean a simple procedure that will reduce the time taken for the police officer, for example, to deal with a misdemeanour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U18	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U19	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good minister! I understand from what you've said, the police are already less visible than the aurora, at least in your home country. This undoubtedly reveals the situation that has been ripe for many years. I understand that this situation has not arisen in the last month or a few months. The fact that we now have one of the biggest international events in Estonia just mercilessly highlights the fact that we do not really have enough people involved in internal security. Apart from the fact that the rest of Estonia will be exposed to police this weekend and that everyone will see for themselves how to deal with thieves and rapists, the question arises as to what happens to our borders. The Police and Border Guard Board is one institution, and when all people are scraped together, they'll be taken off the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U20	Thank you. I'm gonna have to disprove your claims again. First of all, I stress that the plans of the current government coalition have for the first time in years an increase in the number of people in the Police and Border Guard Board. We're doubling the number of rapid-reactors, which helps primarily Ida-Virumaa and Tartu, because there are currently no rapid-reactors there, by the way, exactly the same patrollers, and we're adding 45 constables. Again, their number has been reduced in previous years, we bring more constants. When we talk about the border, all these activities, including, for example, wage increases, are also meant for border guards. We equate the salaries of the police and the border guards, we have already done so, but we are moving forward that their wages, just like the wages of the patrollers, will rise by 10% next year's salary guide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U22	Now Artur Talvik asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Arthur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U23	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The Free Party has stood for open and transparent administration throughout its existence. We believe that transparent administration is one of the methods to prevent corruption. But we are very concerned about the lack of transparency in the management of Rail Baltic, which has been called the major project of the century. The company that does these great things is in Latvia, where there is a completely different business culture and also a political culture, it is much more closed and less transparent. Is the reason RB Rail was made to Latvia the reason why Rail Baltic could be handled in a less transparent way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U24	Thank you for that question. The short answer is that this is certainly not the reason. But you pointed out in your question that such a large and important investment, which certainly uses a great deal of Estonian taxpayers' money, but also the taxpayers' money of the European Union, must be very broad and open. It can't be closed. Any request for information, studies and analyses must be open within the framework of the Rail Baltic project. The Estonian governments, who have worked for Rail Baltic, have certainly stood for this. I can assure you that the current government also stands for any topic that comes to the table about Rail Baltic to receive an operational, adequate and open response. I think, without giving as good an assessment as you did, I mean, by defining what this Rail Baltic is, that this is the right project. I think this is an opportunity to unite Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania and increase the speed of travel within Estonia. This opportunity to connect Estonia through Poland to Central Europe, I think, is very strongly on the table and must be taken forward. I am pleased that both the honourable Riigikogu and the Latvian Parliament have said their 'yes'. Now it is up to the Lithuanian Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U25	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U26	I would like to know what you, as Prime Minister, have done to increase this transparency. Recent cases show that the opposite trend is actually evolving. The group of activists who raised serious questions about Rail Baltic was recently thrown out of RB Rail's office, and the main complaint was that they demanded disclosure. I have a similar experience. When I asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications a question some of which required a direct answer from RB Riil, I didn't get it. What have you done as Prime Minister to make RB Riley's affairs really transparent today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U27	Thank you. In short, I have been debating here with honourable members of the Riigikogu and trying to answer all the questions that have to do with Rail Baltic. That's point one. What else have I done? Point two, I've been around Estonia as much as I can, and I've been talking about Rail Baltic, what it is and how much it costs. This has also been the subject of government press conferences, I am not saying that at every press conference, but it has certainly been an issue that has been addressed. This has been an open subject to the press, on which several members of the government have made comments, and they will certainly pass them on. I understand that this issue concerns a little of the meeting organised by the Estonian Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Rail Baltic Estonia and RB Rail AS in Riga. As far as I am aware today, it was decided to cancel the meeting that had to take place in Riga on 18 September. This was mostly a result of two parties having to disagree with each other. No one was expelled, but it was decided to cancel the meeting due to the lack of mutually acceptable conditions. I believe that effective dialogue is only possible if the parties are open and come together in good faith, but also in mutual respect. Once again, I stress that this is such a large investment project, which requires a very strong contribution from our taxpayer. The questions that you raised here also need to be answered specifically and sincerely, and that is what I will try to do. It is also part of the openness of Rail Baltic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U29	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable Prime Minister! My question is motivated by the previous question. In fact, when I was thinking about this Riga case, I had the feeling that the parties did not realise that the reputation of the whole project was actually damaged by such PR babies. This issue, which is very acutely raised in society, requires special attention. It is therefore regrettable that the parties who went from Estonia could not be informed before that meeting would be cancelled, but had to go there physically. Have you discussed these reputational risks? If something is happening in Lithuania or Latvia or in Estonia, its impact may not only be national. You indicated that you have a great deal of contact with the people of Estonia. Have you discussed that this reputation cannot be risked and that you have done something for this reputation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U30	Thank you. Not only have we been discussing, but we have also taken real steps. I'll answer you a little longer. Of course we've been through this. I have discussed this with my fellow Members, both the Prime Minister of Latvia and Lithuania, I have discussed the subject of Rail Baltic with several members of the European Commission, including the President of the Commission. We have discussed the subject of Rail Baltic's reputation, which you have just asked about, also with officials and external experts. Last I discussed this yesterday, when I had the honour of discussing the reputation of Rail Baltic, but not only the reputation, but also how and at what pace we are moving forward, how we will be able to realise the funding for the next European Union budget period, I mean 2021 and beyond. There was a very serious conversation on this subject. I believe that I will not harm anyone when I say that I talked to the author and pusher of the project in the best sense, Mr Siim Kallas, precisely on these topics, so that Rail Baltic becomes a reality and there are no risks that could hinder this project and investment in Estonia, Latvia or Lithuania, but we also need to look at Poland in this sense, we also need to look at Central Europe. Of course, this communication bridge from Estonia to the Commission, from Estonia to Latvia and from Estonia to Lithuania is also important. So the answer to your question is, have we thought about it, yes, we have. We have also taken real steps to involve the top of our area in order to make this project a success.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U32	The moment has now come when the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, will answer the question asked by MP Aivar Sõerdi. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U33	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Let me congratulate you first, because you have completed your first budget. But, of course, that does not mean that it is a good budget. It's kind of a budget for overliving you. Eesti Pank has made a very clear recommendation to the government: due to rapid economic growth, a nominal surplus needs to be achieved next year. The same recommendation was made today by the Fiscal Council. You have given in to the desire of branch ministers to spend and to increase your budgets, but as your minister of finance, you should look at the country's economy and finances as a whole and be guided by the objective of balancing the economy. Eesti Pank is legally entrusted with the task of being an advisory institution to the government. What do you think that means? Is it that the government is simply listening to the recommendations of Eesti Pank, but is doing exactly the opposite? Do the recommendations of Eesti Pank and the Board have any meaning for you? It's that you yourself...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U35	...to reduce your deficit a little, no excuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U36	Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U37	Thank you for your question. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good manager! I am really glad that this morning the Government of the Republic approved the 2018 budget. I wouldn't describe it as pessimisticly as Aivar did. It is known that the Coalition has agreed to meet its objectives under the Coalition Agreement. To this end, we provided for the possibility of a structural deficit with a budget for a few years. As the economic situation has improved thanks to the good work of our companies and people and to the better situation of our neighbours, our export opportunities have also improved, one of my goals as Minister of Finance was not to use this opportunity to be in the structural deficit of 0.5%, but to improve the budgetary position by half. That's what we did. The current budget is very close to the budget balance, and it is 0.25% of deficit, and I think that by 2020 at the latest we will achieve a budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U38	Aivar Sõerd, a more specific question. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U39	Thank you. Dear Minister, The fact that you are reducing the deficit that you yourself have planned is certainly not an excuse. However, the Fiscal Council's statement today also says that certain revenue forecasts may be too optimistic and there is a risk that the deficit will be higher than planned. I have a question for you. In the forecast, I did not find anything about how much income you have planned from the sale of the shares of the Port of Tallinn next year. I did some digging on my own. As far as I know, in addition to the regular dividend, you have also planned EUR 68 million for an extraordinary so-called superdividend. How much money do you have planned next year from the sale of shares in the Port of Tallinn and where are you going to put that money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U40	Thank you. Yes, this money is available in the budget, but in the budgetary position it has a zero impact because the state budget is accrual-based and it has not been explicitly stated where it is going. It's part of the state budget. There are agreements in the state budget according to the areas of government how much anyone can spend. It is the job of the Minister of Finance to set these limits. I welcome the increase in benefits for families with many children next year. I am pleased that the country's defence capabilities are growing, that thanks to better economic growth, the budget of the defence forces will also increase by EUR 26 million. I welcome the fact that internal security will receive more money to pay more salaries to rescuers, police officers and customs officials, and that there will be a continuing rise in teachers' salaries in the field of education. That's where all the money goes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U41	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U42	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! I understand you like to spend. You just said you're happy for a lot of expenses. It's hard not to accept it, it's always easier to spend than to make a profit. I was watching this press conference where you gave me the budget statement. It seemed that the Prime Minister was given about 11 minutes of air, 14 minutes of air to the Minister of Health and Labour, and you were able to speak for five minutes as the minister responsible. Are you satisfied with the budget that the Prime Minister is about to give us? However, I would like to remind you that your home party, the IRL, called for a strong budget balance to be written into the Constitution a few years ago. Would such a deficit budget (I would even say that it is a living budget) please you, as Minister of Finance and Finance, and are you satisfied with what the Prime Minister gives us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U43	Thank you. I am pleased with this budget. As I said, we will halve the budget deficit, our public debt will fall by 2021, the share of public debt in GDP will reach 7%. This is undoubtedly the best result among OECD countries and within the European Union. Yeah, maybe at the press conference I spoke the shortest, that's because I was third, and most of the stories had already been told, what was there to repeat? I am not in the habit of repeating what has already been said several times. I dare say that this budget is responsible. The European Union has tightened up laws or budgetary rules. If we look back in time, between 2005 and 2008, the structural deficit of the state budget was on average 3% and more than 5% in 2008, i.e. almost EUR 1 billion. We're talking 60 million now. I certainly support this in order to get back to a balanced budget as soon as possible. That's where we're going. My message is that this budget is good, responsible and will also help to implement the coalition's priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U44	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U45	Uno Kaskpeit's question to Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! As we know, a garden is being built on the land border of south-east Estonia, which must prevent smuggling and illegal movements. What measures are being taken to strengthen the river and lake borders? The flows of smugglers and illegals can move back to the Narva River and Lake, as reducing the number of cordons in 2014 and group-based management madness have weakened the surveillance and effectiveness of the borders mentioned above.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U47	Thank you. You rightly pointed out that building the eastern border of Estonia is one of the largest and most ambitious projects in recent years in terms of strengthening border management, and over the years its funding amounts to EUR 75 million. It creates very different elements in different parts of the border, as a result of what needs are specific to one section or the other. The lake borders, as well as the river border, are certainly a very important part of this ambitious border project. We're starting with the fact that the lake borders in themselves are fully covered by the radar system, which provides an opportunity to collect information throughout Lake Peipsi. There are currently four radar positions on the Narva River and all of them are equipped with night and day cameras in addition to radar. There is also a separate camera position on the river border, which is equipped with both day and heat cameras. But yes, the Narva River is not fully covered by technical security. In order to improve the situation, we have an analysis commissioned under this very border project, which should now be completed in the autumn, with the aim of identifying and establishing new monitoring positions. I think pretty soon we'll be working on some technical work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U48	Uno Kaskpeit, more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U49	Thank you. Illegal border crossingrs are becoming increasingly resourceful. Is it planned, and how, to strengthen the protection and surveillance of river and lake borders so that we can also control underwater activities? Or are you planning to build a fence by the water?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U50	Thank you. No, really the garden under the water, if I understood you correctly, we're not going to build, that's not necessary given the technical possibilities of the 21st century. For example, in the coming years, it is planned to obtain five hydro helicopters, three of which are planned for the eastern border. Over the last few years, there have been 24 more vessels, 14 of which are aimed at the eastern border, including eight powerboats of different sizes and jettisons. Recent statistics show that smuggling is primarily at the land border. More needs to be said on the waterline about the fishing infringements that we observe during the fishing season. In addition to border control activities, clarification among people who, for example, go to frozen water bodies is also very important to reduce them. But yes, the main pressure on smuggling is still on the land border, which will also be part of the 75 million investment that will be carried out over the next few years. I dare say to you, as I have also told my foreign colleagues, that our border project, started several years ago and carried forward by various interior ministers, is one of the most ambitious and innovative border projects in Europe at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U51	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U52	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Both Finnish and Russian border guards have hit drones that carry contraband along the Estonian border. Does Estonia have any kind of plan or capacity to repel drones if they do not carry contraband, but simply do intelligence? I have another question. Yeah, we have a lot of very expensive equipment on the border, but we don't have patrols there, at least not enough. This results in situations where smugglers or illegal immigrants come across the border, which we are only discovering somewhere in Estonia's hinterland. When will the eastern border of border guards be manned with specific people, not just with appliances?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U53	Thank you. I'm sure no machine works without a human being. The aim of the apparatus is to identify the possible risk of crossing or crossing the border, and people need to respond to it. In fact, I would like to say in advance that the combination of police and border guards has provided an opportunity for the protection of the border to take place on a number of lines. For smugglers, the people who meet them inside the country and are interested in this contraband are important. In order to apprehend them, we can also use domestic police forces to help the border guards. As I told you earlier, the salaries of border guards have been harmonised with the police's pay, although there were big differences after accession. For example, next year, if the Internal Security Pay Fund rises by 4.5%, it is these day-to-day workers, whether they are on the border or helping to respond to the border incident in the county, who will receive the biggest wage increase. But once again, in order to better manage human resources and not to use the 20th century method, but the 21st century method, we need the right sharing of resources, technology and division of tasks. By the way, one of the main conditions for fulfilling the objective is the new border protection data system S.H.I.E.L.D., which is about to be completed and which also aims to best and most modernly share human and technical resources at this new innovative border.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U54	I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U55	Andres Herkel is asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Here you go, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The Centre Party in Estonia has historically been party 1 to corruption, and now it is your great task to become Paul from Saul and show us all the way to reduce corruption. I'm talking about the self-governance level. The National Audit Office has drawn attention to weaknesses in internal control. The use of public funds for party purposes, especially before the elections, has been repeatedly mentioned. The Chancellor of Justice has also addressed the Riigikogu with his proposals. The subject is more than topical. What are your activities as Prime Minister and also as Chairman of the Centre Party after the forthcoming municipal elections, so that the situation with the corruption of local governments is improved as a whole, including in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U57	Thank you for this question. I do not know why it is that in Estonian politics we always want to deal more with other parties, but not with our own party. It is understandable, on the one hand, for local elections are approaching, but on the other hand, it is also a matter of political culture. I certainly cannot agree with your argument that one party is the most corrupt and so on. The Centre Party has had problems. I think the strength of the current leadership is that we recognise it. Of course there have been problems. We've taken responsibility, too. In the case of judgments, we have taken responsibility, we have also taken responsibility for the injunctions made by the Committee on the Monitoring of the Financing of Political Parties. If you ask what steps will be taken after the elections, I say that these steps have been taken by the Centre Party, at least on 5 November last year, when the new chairman and leadership were elected. As far as Tallinn is concerned, what will happen after the elections will be decided by the residents of Tallinn, deciding who they will give their support to. I also mention, of course, the audit of the National Audit Office, which talks about the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Act in local governments. It states that the main source of pain, when it comes to local governments, is not so maliciously selfish but rather ignorance. It even says comfort, because corruption is understood as a phenomenon, but when you think about your institution or company, you do not know or want to see risks, not to mention the systematic mitigation of them. That's what the National Audit Office's audit says.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U58	Andres Herkel, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U59	Prime Minister! I have a specific question about how far the government is with the country's money monitoring information system, which we have been talking about here, and where all the local government transactions and transaction partners would be visible online to interested people, which would increase transparency. Talking about political culture still doesn't get past the Centre Party. Not only have you, but others have been working to expel people from the party before the elections who are running against the so-called political party list in the same district. Are there plans to remove users of public resources from the party? After the previous elections, Tammemägi, Kutser, Savisaar and many others were peacefully on your political party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U60	Thank you. The thing about our party is that if anyone wants to contribute to the party's activities with advice and strength, he is mostly welcome, mostly welcome. The procedure is quite simple: you have to write an application with your own hands and voluntarily. There must be the approval or recommendation of people who have been party members for a little while and there must be two. It is also good to note in this statement what area this person wants to be in and what quantity he wants to participate in is this council, a collection of teachers or a collection of greens. And that's when you can join the party. It seems to me that you, Mr Herkel, have a great desire to improve the Centre Party. I understand this question, although the topic of Question Time in the Riigikogu should be a little wider than discussing the internal life of one party. I want to say that if you have this wish and you write this statement with your own hands, I will find the two people (or at least I will help to recommend them) who have been in our party for a little while. We can also discuss what you might belong to. As I said, for the most part, the board approves the candidates, so I'm not even afraid that anyone can say no, Andres Herkel can't accept the party. You want to make the party better and more transparent, it is very commendable, and these people are needed, and frankly I say that it is necessary. In replying to the first part of the question of how far these mechanisms are to make the country's control system even more transparent, I say that, in my opinion, all steps must be taken to reduce corruption in local governments or in the public sector, or even to use this expression to eradicate it, must be taken with courage and force. Corruption has no place in the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Prime Minister! It must be acknowledged that the hatchet of corruption has certainly not passed Tallinn City Government far. I was amazed that what you are talking about as solving the problems of a party actually means that in the case of judicial decisions, taxpayers' money is paid for lawyers' fees, for example in Mr Savisaare's case. The taxpayer has yet to look rather lukewarmly at this. I was also astonished by what the Honourable Sults said on this remote control, as if unauthorized painting of the city hall would be a good thing for God and perfectly okay. In my opinion, this suggests that self-righteousness and self-righteousness are beginning to emerge again in Estonia, rather than being allowed to behave in a position of power. How do you feel about knowingly ignoring the law and painting one building, belonging to the council of this institution and being in power in Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U63	Thank you. I take a bad view of any violation of the law, all the more so than a member of the Riigikogu does. I don't take it well, I don't take it badly, I don't take it badly. If the law has been violated, it must be held accountable. That is, in my opinion, the case for this object. So if you're asking me how I feel, I'm saying that I feel deplorable, bad, I don't think it's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U65	Now Andres Ammas is asking Andres Anvelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U66	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said once today, Homeland Security will get more money. If the economy is growing and the budget is growing so rapidly, then everyone will get more money. It is a question of the proportions of the various sectors, which shows the priorities of the government. I looked at a table drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, which compares the financial allocations in areas since 2005. Apart from the year 2008, when, apparently because of the events that took place a year earlier, there was a sharp increase in internal security spending and this part of the budget increased vigorously, there has been a steady decline since then. Please explain why internal security has not been a priority either for this government or for previous governments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U67	Thank you. It's the best name I've ever seen, if that's the way to turn! You've got some misinformation in your hands, as if Homeland Security isn't a priority for the current government. I will return to the same postulates that we are now carrying out every day, preparing for the adoption of next year's budget, i.e. increasing the number of people involved in internal security. I'll talk to 45 district constables again. There will be so much more people working for communities who are only committed to this small government. It hasn't happened in years. The second thing is to double the number of quick responders. The third thing is to increase the rescue capacity by providing investment, which is 3 million per year. This allows us to obtain better equipment and to repair or build the blasting sites that Estonia very much needs, because we have been full of shells and ammunition from World War I and World War II. Not to mention what amounts are earmarked for the acquisition of funds and the execution of a number of things for our special service. Plus, I wouldn't divorce it from internal security. It's a great desire of the current government to contribute financially to the activities of our volunteers. At the last cabinet session, a $1.5 million was decided, I'd say a historic investment to fix fireplaces. These are all things that concern internal security. After all, this figure in Estonia is the European average of 1.8% of GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U68	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! There have been doubts today about whether this funding has been carried out in the best possible way. But in view of what you answered to one of the previous questions about bringing additional forces to Tallinn because of the Presidency, I recall the saying that sometimes there are jokes among the people that when the Germans drive, the common people work. But my concern is whether all the policemen who are being brought to Tallinn will have decent and decent conditions to spend this time here. Is there money for that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U70	Thank you. This is a very important point of attention. Yeah, I've been worried about that too. I can assure you, coming back again, if I'm wrong, to the first or second questioner, that this activity has been planned for a long time. Good colleague, you can ask that of your good party partner, the former Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. He knows that this process began much earlier, that money was planned for the Presidency, that people were thought through and that events were secured, and that it was planned in such a way that security on the ground would not suffer. These people come to Tallinn mostly outside the work schedule of the local prefecture and are paid separately. Today was the same question about living conditions, if I am not mistaken, either in the Eesti Päevaleht or in Postimees, there was an entire interview on this subject with the responsible people of the police department who said that these people live in decent conditions in hotels and that their catering is organised as order and duty. As they say, on such hard work, a person must be rested and have a full stomach, so safety is guaranteed. So I dare say that all the additional expenditure associated with the Presidency comes from outside the routine internal security budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U71	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U72	Good minister, I'll be more specific. Is the budget for next year, which we have not yet seen here, but what you feel well about, spending on internal security as a ratio to GDP, for example, in this year's budget? If we love to be proud of the proportion of our defence expenditure in GDP in international communication and we bring it to the fore in every possible way, should we not, as a minimum, set a single level for internal security that we will never fall below, such as a certain percentage of GDP?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U73	Thank you. This is a very big debate, there are pros and cons. First of all, I will take care of the relationship between my government and GDP and its share of the state budget. It's been more or less in balance in recent years. 2016 was 1.7%, 2017 is 1.67% and 2018 is 1.7%. So this larger increase came in 2014, when it moved from 1.5% to 1.7%. The budget will grow by 8.6% next year compared to this year, with a lot of investments and new projects being launched down here. I myself have come to the conclusion that, both in the budget and in the four-year RES, funds are currently planned for nearly 190 million to finance new activities and projects. You will also be able to see all of them during the budgetary procedure. I just can't go into detail here. I have all the pages on it. When it comes to the question of whether it should be linked to GDP, when philosophing and looking at the background, it is clear that the availability of reserves is also very important for defence costs, while they are different from those of internal defence. When we are talking about stockpiles of ammunition and equipment that the Defence Forces can do with a much longer perspective than the police, we have to bear in mind that our supplies are constantly in use and we have to update them all the time. Therefore, I would certainly not close it by a percentage, rather, I dare say it, one of the tasks of my administration as Minister of the Interior and the whole ministry is to increase this number...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U74	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U75	... and go negotiating this way so we can get bigger and bigger projects. I didn't even notice the time, so I wanted to talk to my name.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U76	Honourable Riigikogu, since you have asked questions so well, which has allowed members of the government to give very specific answers, we now have five minutes to spare. I would first like to mention the minister you are asking and then to ask a question. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U77	I'll ask the Honorable Prime Minister. When we asked about double standards earlier, you did not know why we were asking. We ask because your messages in different auditoriums have been quite contradictory. But my point is that when we talk about the leading figures of the Central Party, I remember both the visit of Yana Toom to Syria and, in fact, Mikhail Kõlvart in North Korea, posing with the children. I have a sincere question. Knowing what the situation is in North Korea and how tense this situation is, because rockets are being released from the country over the territories of other countries, would you really approve as Prime Minister of this if we were to take the children of Estonia to North Korea at a time when this political situation is like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U78	Thank you, good questioner! What you are referring to as different messages in different auditoriums is, in my opinion, a very correct observation. I think that the messages in different auditoriums, whether in Estonia or in the European Union, in meeting with Estonian-speaking residents or Russian-speaking Estonians, must be the same, especially politicians. I had the honour of attending higher national defence courses in Tartu yesterday. If I am mistaken, it is probably the third time that higher national defence courses are organised for Estonian residents whose home language is Russian. I said there such a sentence that I think the most important link is how strong the cohesion of our society, the integration of society is. The 1.3 million inhabitants of Estonia must feel that they are all welcome and welcome in this country. I felt really good, and I think the auditorium also took it very sympatheticly. When I was driving back from Tartu to Tallinn, I saw that party I was not going to name a party ad that once again makes wood and red and ticks: one is in one cell, the other in another. Yeah, I don't think such different messages are good. Now from North Korea, which you asked about. As far as I know, it was a sporting event. I don't think it's worth linking sports and politics, that's what our history has taught us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U79	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U80	Thank you. My question is to the Minister of Finance, but first I will tell the Prime Minister that I recommend that he read the news portal on national broadcasting, where on 21 September the title was 'Estonians prefer the Reform Party, the Central Party in other languages'. If you're saying that national broadcasting is categorizing someone, it's power! But my question is to the Minister of Finance. Mr Finance Minister, perhaps you can explain to a simple person how we can have budget revenues below budget expenditure of EUR 250 million next year (this is more than a percentage of GDP)? Perhaps you can also explain what a change in government policy is when defence costs fall from 2.19% to 2.11% and the extra money for health expenditure is not exactly the extra money that is in that budget. The Prime Minister and I will be able to debate here soon, but maybe you can explain the 250 million and the defense costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U81	Thank you. Good questioner! If there was a problem before, why do we want to spend, then now there is a concern as to why we spend so little. But as a whole, I want to emphasise that public debt as a ratio of GDP will decrease and reach 7% of GDP by 2021. That's the main message I'm trying to say here. Yes, there are priorities that the coalition will implement, and that is why the costs will be higher this year than the revenues, but the nominal balance will reach close to the equilibrium point of 0.1% of GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U82	Honourable Riigikogu! As you might have imagined, Question Time ran out. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt and Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U83	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Heili Tõnisson has, on behalf of the Government of the Republic. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Act on the person repressed by occupation regimes and amending the Act on Social Welfare. Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and related amendments to other laws. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Private Schools Act. In processing these two draft laws in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps. Fifthly, the draft State Budget Act of 2018. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste when the bill is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U85	I have adopted five drafts, which will be processed under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. Honourable Riigikogu, please pay attention! The agenda needs to be clarified and, worse still, improved. In fact, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas has expressed his wish to make a political statement at today's Riigikogu session. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (9) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add to the agenda of today's sitting and add to the first item the political statement of Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Secondly, at the debate on today's eighth item, the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Law on State Fees and the Law on Legal Aid, 496 at first reading, is the initiator of the draft act by Andres Anvelt. We will start working on the points on today's agenda. I'm sorry! The ninth item is also discussed by Andres Anvelt, the rapporteur for the draft, which is the first reading of draft 497.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U86	Let's get to work. Political statement by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas regarding the transfer of the draft State Budget Act 2018 to the Riigikogu. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U87	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I would first like to thank the President of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu for this opportunity to present here today. Good Estonian people! The content of my presentation is, I think, and I hope, positive. This is next year's draft state budget, and there are really many good messages. I had the honour of standing before you here on 21 November 2016 when I asked and asked for the powers to form the Government of the Republic. I then pointed out in my speech as a candidate for Prime Minister that our Estonia is facing a serious challenge in many respects. The population crisis, social inequalities, economic stagnation and national security are issues that cannot and must not be overlooked. I also stressed the need to increase the income base of local governments and the need to increase agricultural subsidies. I promised that solving these challenges would be the goal of the Social Democratic Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Central Party government union. I am pleased to be able to assure you today that this is exactly what the 2018 state budget is doing. The topics listed at the time are the basis on which we drew up the state budget. We will contribute to improving people's living environment, increasing social equality, ensuring long-term and sustainable economic growth and ensuring national security. The government's fiscal policy is strong and responsible. Public debt will decrease and the tax burden will not increase. According to the current forecast, the general government balance is close to balance. The country's revenues and costs will exceed EUR 10 billion for the first time next year. The total public budget is EUR 3.1 billion for the social sector, 1.4 billion for health care and 1 billion for education. We contribute 26 million euros more to the defence sector than last year, i.e. 528 million euros, and this is the largest defence budget in Estonia's history. The state budget is one of the most important instruments for improving Estonia's life, so we have made several fundamental changes in our policy choices compared to the previous government. We want to reduce inequalities and move towards a more balanced society. To achieve this, we have a tax-free income reform, a health reform, as well as an increase in the income base of local governments, as well as a number of important investments that have been delayed for too long. I would like to warmly thank the coalition partners from the Social Democratic Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and, of course, my party partners for the work they have done here. The state budget for 2018 is our joint work. Honourable ambassadors! When we laid the foundations for the coalition last autumn, we agreed with good partners that one of the most important tasks facing us is solving the population problem. It is essential that people live in Estonia, that Estonia is the best place to study, work and start a family, and that people who have left in previous years return to their homeland. One of the biggest opportunities for the government to influence the lives of Estonians is precisely the state budget, which is why we must make the best possible use of the budget. One important problem for our society is, of course, economic inequality. For too long, our governments have focused only on growth and too little attention has been paid to the fair distribution of social wealth. That is what we see and recognise ourselves, and that is what international organisations refer to. In the state budget, we have given much greater weight to combating inequality by means of clear choices. This is far from sacrificing success to date or paying a fee for economic development. Quite the opposite. Honourable ambassadors, a more equal society is more united, a more united society is stronger and a stronger society grows faster. Next year we will take important steps towards increasing social equality. Increasing the tax-free minimum will leave 64 euros more in the payday next year for all those earning low and average wages. Everyone who earns up to EUR 1776 will benefit from this reform. This is the most important and fundamental tax policy decision of this century. In order to achieve a balanced society, it is equally important to ensure a decent pension for the elderly. The average pension is projected to rise by 6.3% in the new year, from 416 euros to 442 euros. There will also be an increase in child benefits. We have always stressed that economic success must reach every person, every good young person and every employed person, every retired elderly person, every Estonian family and every Estonian resident. Our aim is for relative poverty to fall from more than 21% to 15.9% in the new year. That's how we bring 70,000 people out of the poverty line. The income of most Estonians will rise next year. People will win thanks to the growth in wages and pensions and the tax-free income reform we have initiated. The government will therefore make a clear contribution to ensuring that growth is as inclusive as possible. Similarly, we are moving forward decisively in the area of health. For years, solutions to the problems that exist in our medical system have been awaited. That is why we decided already in the spring that we would increase the financing of health care, which would improve access to medical care and shorten the waiting lists. Health care needs a legal model of sustainable financing, which will provide more than EUR 200 million in additional funding in four years, with 34 million in 2018. Health is a very important part of people's quality of life, so improving access to health services and increasing the number of our people's healthy lives should be at the heart of every government. In particular, we have decided that the state will pay social security contributions for inactive old-age pensioners, which will gradually reach 13% of the average old-age pension by 2022. In addition, the Health Insurance Fund will be responsible for part of the health services financed so far by the state budget. With the supplementary benefit system, we will significantly reduce the cost of prescription medicines for people with high medical needs. This system is also easier for the patient, as the benefit is automatically taken into account when buying a medicine at a pharmacy. The cost of medicines is reduced by almost 110000 people, whose costs currently exceed EUR 100 per year. Under the new regime, additional compensation will be paid at a rate of 50% if the costs are between EUR 100 and 300 and 90% if the costs exceed EUR 300. The national immunisation plan to ensure vaccines is planned to be around EUR 4 million in the budget for the coming year. As a one-signed step, we consider it necessary to tax the consumption of evils higher and it has already borne fruit. Of course, there is much discussion about the increase in alcohol duty. Government choices have consciously put human health above other goals. I also point out that, as an important step, we are raising the support of the repressed from EUR 192 to EUR 230. This support is granted to repressed citizens and to those Estonian citizens who were sent under coercion to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. People of undefined nationality, or 'grey passport', who also participated in the decommissioning of a nuclear disaster and were sent there from Estonia, will receive just as much (230 euros per year) social support to cover the costs of restoring health. The last change concerns up to 1,400 people. Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased that with the state budget for 2018, there will be an increase of 4.5% in the salaries of internal security staff, such as police officers, rescuers and customs officials, as well as an increase in the wage fund for social welfare workers. There is still a lot of good news in the area of security. The number of regional police forces is increasing and rapid response capacity is doubling. For the development of the rescue area, investments will be made in the defence equipment and new rescue equipment for rescue and deminerators, as well as support for the expansion and reinforcement of the voluntary rescue team network. It is very important that EUR 1.5 million of additional funds are planned for improving the fire safety of homes. Next year, the pay of teachers will continue to rise, which is 36 million euros more in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Research than this year. The minimum wage for teachers is EUR 1150 and the average salary for teachers is EUR 1380. We will contribute 13.5 million euros to the increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers next year through municipalities. In vocational training, resources will increase by 9% to 76 million euros. The budget for the increase in the salaries of highly educated cultural workers and young trainers amounts to EUR 10 million. According to the proposal, for the first time in the following year, the minimum gross earnings of a higher-education cultural worker will increase to over EUR 1000, namely EUR 1150. For many years, I personally have had to vote against the state budget, precisely because the governments of that time have not fulfilled the promise of a time of economic crisis and have not restored the so-called temporary reduction in the revenue base of the municipalities in the years of the crisis. This year, as a member of the Riigikogu, I would not have this concern, as the income base of local governments will grow in the new year. In addition to the growth of various grants, the government has decided to increase the income tax and fine-tuning fund of municipalities that are not linked to specific tasks by 30 million euros in 2018. Thus, our municipalities and cities can better organise local life, involve their people and communities, and provide quality services to their residents. The government has also decided to increase the financial autonomy of local authorities and to give them, along with the funding, I would stress that, along with the funding, new tasks. Its aim is to increase the decision-making and responsibility of local governments in organising local life so that they can plan the development of the region more comprehensively and provide better services to the population. It is in our interest to have capable municipalities who are a strong partner for the state throughout Estonia. Honourable Riigikogu! Estonia's economic growth accelerated significantly in the first half of the year, reaching 5.2%, while the economy grew by 5.7% in the second quarter of this year. Estonia has broken the backbone of economic stagnation in recent years. At the same time, in just a year, concerns about low growth have shifted to the other extreme and there have been warnings of too rapid growth. Of course, we must continue to be balanced, but I agree with analysts who advise us to believe in ourselves. As a driver for economic growth, I stress that the driver for economic growth is, of course, good Estonian companies. I am particularly pleased that our businesses have created many new jobs in recent years. This has raised labour market activity to the highest level in the last two decades. The jobs offered provide applications for many people and contribute significantly to reducing inequalities in society. Similarly, the government must make an effort to ensure that the economy continues to develop at just the same pace in the coming years and that growth becomes as long-term as possible. The state can contribute to economic growth, for example, through well-targeted and smartly targeted government investment. The government will invest more than a billion euros through the state budget in 2018 to support the long-term growth capacity of the Estonian economy. We channel money to our main roads, support agriculture by paying EUR 18.4 million for transitional support, develop resource-efficient production and domestic science. We are planning to invest EUR 56.7 million in building important infrastructure sites and developing our living environment for all of us. The development of a broadband distribution network will continue in cooperation between the state, local authorities and the private sector. We invest 10 million euros to make high-speed internet access available across Estonia. Road storage investments are planned for 227 million euros, including the construction of a four-line section of the road section of Kose-Mäo and the construction of the 2+2 series of section Jüri-Väo of the Tallinn ring road, as well as the renovation of intersections and construction of the Väo traffic junction on the Tallinna-Narva road to improve road safety. Construction of the first stage of the Haapsalu railway begins. We support local authorities in developing a housing fund with nearly 60 million euros in 2017, of which we will contribute 20 million euros in 2018. The country invests 32 million in the energy sector. Support for road and rail transport and ferry connections are also growing. I am pleased that, alongside strategic investments, smaller but very important projects in the fields of education, culture and sport will not be overlooked. For example, we will develop the Kääriku Sports Centre in three years. Between 2018 and 2020 we will allocate nearly EUR 12 million to build the base, with a budget of 3.8 million for next year. This creates an opportunity for top athletes and young people in Estonia to train in world-class conditions. The establishment of today's sports base shows that the state values both the sport of children and young people and the opportunities for our top athletes to train worthy of the Olympic Games. The state also supports the development of the theatre complex in the Old Town of Tallinn City Theatre. The city theater's collective and theater enthusiasts have long earned organized theatre buildings and a new and spacious hall. Our goal is to build an addition to the theatre with the city of Tallinn and to clean up existing premises. In the budget for the coming year, EUR 0.7 million will be earmarked for the design of the complex, and in the coming years the state will support the urban theatre with an additional EUR 9 million. According to preliminary forecasts, the cost of the necessary construction works will be between 2018 and 2020. In 2008, 20 million euros, nearly half of which is covered by the state and the rest by Tallinn. I am very pleased that the construction of Narva College of the National Defence Academy will begin in 2018. The decision is based on the academy's interests as well as the needs of Ida-Virumaa and its residents. It's good for all parties involved. The establishment of the Narva College of the Estonian Academy of Defence will benefit from both the field of internal security, which will gain a more diverse training environment, and the local community. Similarly, in the new year, we will launch the Ida-Virumaa programme. The government clearly shows that it values the development of Ida-Viru County in the same way as the development of other regions of Estonia. Honourable ambassadors! Following public debates on the state budget, it has the impression that, as content is difficult to complain about, some opposition parties are trying to force the debate on the technical side of the budget. Our important and broad-based reforms have been said much less than this accident's 0.25% structural deficit. But all right, let's talk about it. I will try to do this as clearly and honestly as possible. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U88	Well, then we'll have to find two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U89	The state budget for the following year is planned for a structural deficit of 0,25%. It has been tried to paint as an unprecedented crime that nullifies everything positive that the budget brings to people. For historical accuracy, I refer to the Ministry of Finance's data on government budgets run by the Reform Party. For example, in 2006, the structural deficit reached 2.7% of GDP, 3.8% in 2007 and 5.1% in 2008. Let me remind you once again that in the case of 2018, we are talking about a 20 times lower percentage. The budget is forecast to reach a balance already in 2020, which is a year earlier than planned in spring. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Aren't we making an elephant out of a mosquito right now? In addition, real statistics show that, under the leadership of the Reform Party, the government debt ratio doubled from 4.5% in 2005 to 9.4% in 2016. The current government has taken decisions to reduce the debt burden to 7% in 2021. Another complaint against the current government is the alleged increase in the tax burden. Dear Riigikogu, our tax burden is not increasing and the government's goal is to keep it stable between 34% and 35% in the coming years. Referring once again to history and to the reproach of the opposition party, I say that, despite the confident rhetoric of this party, our tax burden increased from 30% to the current level, or by nearly a seventh. Finally, there is no basis for intimidation, as if the current government was going to make extensive use of reserves. In order to cover the State's costs, EUR 86 million of liquidity reserves will be used as it makes sense to channel available financial resources efficiently and not to increase debt. I would like to thank all the residents and entrepreneurs of Estonia, who will help us to prepare the state budget for 2018 at all! It is not the government's monetary plan, it is the budget of all Estonian people. I would like to thank you for listening, and I would like you to have constructive discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U90	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I'm opening negotiations. During the negotiations, the floor can be spoken on behalf of the group. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U91	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I am happy to continue the debate on the state budget for the coming year initiated by the Prime Minister, although it is fair to say that we in this Chamber do not have this budget, at least for the most part, yet, and in our minds, we can rely now only on the messages that the government has considered necessary to give to the public in the form of press releases and interviews. The main issue is and will remain the balance of the budget. The Prime Minister was absolutely right when he said a moment ago that this deficit is unfortunate at this time. It's like the Prime Minister wanted to put that word in quotes. There aren't any quotes there. It's unhappy. It is very symbolic that, just an hour and a half ago, the Board's assessment and the recommendation to draw up a budget with a small surplus, not a deficit. In Question Time, we did not receive an answer from the Minister for Finance or from the Prime Minister why these expert recommendations were not listened to, why the reserves that experts recommend to grow in good times were not being raised. This government coalition has failed to succumb to the temptation to fulfill as many electoral promises as possible at once. Dear coalition, you are confident that this will bring you success in the elections next year. They could be flashlights. The Estonian people generally appreciate sustainability and statesmanship. I really don't understand why you're acting so desperate that after you come or the flood. It may well happen that one day you will be able to rule, and then you will be able to carry out your visions. A number of previously unsolved issues have indeed been resolved in this budget, and the government must be commended for this. The Free Party is very pleased that, for example, education, which had been constantly underfunded in the past, will have to be much more money and that, by raising teachers' salaries, it will try to keep up with the overall wage race. We welcome investments in the cultural field, the increase in the salary of highly educated cultural workers and the increase in the remuneration of coaches. In some respects, the government has wanted to do good, but it hasn't worked out well in the end. The Free Party is pleased that the national additional payments to agriculture have been fully restored, but we still find the sectoral distribution of the agricultural budget to be problematic and crooked. The concentration of agriculture continues and the extinction of farms continues. In fact, in Question Time some time ago, the Minister for Rural Affairs agreed to this assessment and promised to take action. It is very good that you have increased the income base of local governments, but until you have either come up with a fairer equalisation fund formula or agree on it, the inequality of local governments will increase even more. Good thing you're increasing your doctoral grant, but why half as much as you planned before? Why are you sticking together right now? But now for some of the problems that have actually gone too far for both the present and some previous governments. In his press releases, the Head of Government loves to talk a lot about health care. The aim is to convey to the public the message that EUR 200 million is the amount allegedly coming to healthcare over the next five years. It's a distortion of the eye, actually, it's going to be about half as much as 100 million. You're just moving money from one line to the other. The money that has so far been in the budget in the line of the Institute for Health Development or the Health Board, you are now raising the Health Insurance Fund to the line and boasting that you have done something huge for health care. Let us be honest, this problem of sustainable healthcare financing remains to be resolved by a number of other governments. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U92	Our group has always been excited about funding science. A policy that is less ambitious in this area than that of the current government has long been seen. We are not moving 1% of GDP. You're gonna miss Ansip! Attention is drawn to the fact that the government is also making foreign policy in some way through fiscal decisions. Good relations with neighbouring Latvia are so important that there is nothing to be sorry about it. An increase in excise duty at a rate that is very high above that of the nearest neighbour is not a wise policy. To make indirect accusations to people when they take advantage of national stupidity in their own interest or to accuse merchants of excessive margin-raising is unfair. It is worth noting that the Ministry of Finance has already corrected its spring forecast. After all, the actual picture is still revealed only when the alcohol that was previously stored runs out. Much has been said about increasing the tax-free minimum. If the government loves to emphasise its child-friendly policy, it could be consistent. You are not child-friendly or family-friendly here, because you first lost your spouse's joint declaration of tax-free income at all and then restored it in incomplete form as a half-solution, and in the case of the child's additional income tax-free income, you have somehow left it at the level determined by previous governments. At all, government reports have not mentioned savings in the public sector. The fact that the state is so thick is, of course, particularly disturbing to the entrepreneurs whose money we are spending here together, but it also disturbs the general public of Estonia. You don't want to talk about it at all. Against the background of recent debates on democracy in this Chamber, too, I cannot, in any way, overcome or overcome the issue of party funding. Estonia, at least in European terms, is the country where political parties are most funded from the budget, when compared as percentages. There will be a debate here tomorrow, looking for more effective funding for NGOs. It is very simple: at least half of the money allocated to political parties could be freely channelled to the civil society. What can we say in conclusion? We will, of course, be able to discuss the budget again and again. The Free Party will work seriously on this budget. Let me finally put a little bit more graphic in order for the Minister of Finance to understand the point. I speak the language used by sommeliers and merchants. Sometimes it is written on the label that it is a full, round, and honey drink. But if you take the cap off, it turns out that the drink is broken, it's actually a wine with a flaw, and instead of a flowery aroma, you can smell such an old bagcloth. We think this budget is like wine with a mistake, there's a bug programmed in here. Disguising for future generations is a huge mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U93	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U94	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U95	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Listening to George Ratas makes you feel like you're living in the 1970s and watching some party congress on TV. There's a huge amount of details that people talk about, praise themselves, and think they're on a pedestal. But Jüri Ratas isn't on the pedestal, Jüri Ratas is on the stand. He has not only been accused by the opposition, but also by independent experts that Estonia is out of control under his leadership. That's a fact. This is not opposition rhetoric; this is the wording of Eesti Pank. Today, the report was sent by the Board of Budgets, which said that the budget should be in nominal surplus, not deficit. Essentially, what Jüri Ratas is doing is living at the expense of the past and stealing from the future. Why do I say "stealing"? Because it has to be handled by others. All the thousands of details that were pressed into 20 minutes here are unsustainable. We do not yet know how much the next governments will be able to reduce this deficit. This isn't about 0.25%, so now we're stealing half as much as we planned, it's about a structural deficit being banned at all. It is unsustainable. This may occur during some very, very exceptional reform, which will lead to measurable results in the coming years. But here, almost a percentage of the budget (0.25% is calculated from GDP) is simply pocketed and boasted. We did not hear of any structural reform that would lead to long-term savings or better use of money. We didn't hear anything about the government getting ready by the time the euro money stopped coming. This means a huge effort for the next governments, but these efforts will be stepped up with structural and nominal deficits. If the state does not live with a surplus in a good year, when will it still live like this, one of Eesti Pank's suites asked. I think it will happen when we get rid of Jüri Ratas and this government, but if it doesn't happen in time, it will come in the form of a crisis. It is a great pity that the Prime Minister not only boasts, but also lies. It was as if, in blaming international imperialism, he gave examples of 2006, 2007 and 2008, when the Reform Party had made a budget in a structural deficit. The point is, at that time, the term was not known. These budgets were all made in nominal surpluses and no one spoke of having some kind of structural gauge. This measure was established on the basis of the experience of the crisis. We started to sort out the crap that had gathered in the state sector. We didn't know we were going to survive, but we collected reserves and they're being spent by Jüri Ratas. All the budgets I prepared as the finance minister of the Reform Party, i.e. prepared by the Reform Party government, were not just made in structural balance, but even in structural surplus. All Sesters who are here talking and spreading another lie, as if we had eaten up reserves and increased the loan burden, are misturing, because structural balance means that reserves are being used in bad times, and we were in power at an objectively bad time internationally. Now there is a boom, there was a crisis at the time, and it was necessary to use the money that had been set aside during the boom. We put too little aside because we didn't know about the structural balance yet, but we worked out this rule, which now, in turn... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U96	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U97	... Ratas' government canceled. So far, when the structural minus was justified by the need to get the economy started, there were very nice backwards here, and I was standing here, and I was talking! Then, in the meantime, it has become clear that nothing had to start; the economy had already started. There is no need at all to suck up to businesses, they are the main economic figures anyway, but it must be acknowledged that these statistical signs were already in place and were the reason for them in Europe. The European economy grew, demand increased in Europe, our export prices increased and overall optimism increased. This is why entrepreneurs were able to meet their dreams and the needs of the country. It is very sad to hear this communist rhetoric as well as saying that equality is economic growth. You know, we heard that story right in those plenums. Of course, in the case of inequality, there are things that directly hinder economic growth, but firstly, the government is not constantly moving towards equality, and secondly, it is not dealing with those things that hinder economic growth. The most important thing about equality is equal access to education. Today, the draft procedure, which provides greater guarantees for paid school education than for free education, allows better funding for paid education and protects investments there. Municipal schools do not have these guarantees. We are shutting down municipal schools because there are few children and because of this change, children will be even fewer. A higher tax-free minimum does not increase equality, because the poorest get nothing. It's not true that everyone gets... What's the amount again? This is compared to the tax-free minimum that was, not to what was to come. What had to come could have been much bigger, in the opinion of the Reform Party. This, however, was not allowed by the same braggers Sester and the so-called, they were not interested in an increase in the tax-free minimum during the coalition negotiations. They say that EUR 500 would have been reached in 2030. Then it would have been achieved at this slow pace, but we offered a faster pace. It did not really aim for equality; the tax-free minimum has a completely different meaning. Universal benefits do not increase equality. But for example, the loss of needs-based child support, which is also proposed to the Riigikogu, increases inequality. There are more examples. Tax exemptions do not effectively reduce inequalities. This is the saddest part of the government's policy that the use of money is constantly inaccurate and excessive and is beyond Estonia's control. I hope that the Prime Minister will not continue to make it numb, but will follow a little bit of the answers given to these points. I hope Sven Sester doesn't come here to talk again about the fact that you see the loan burden increased. The loan burden increased as a result of the EFSF.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U99	Our government did not take any loans, the municipalities took and the EFSF, i.e. the southern states took.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U100	Thank you, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U101	So don't lie about it either!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U102	Thank you very much. Time's up. During the negotiations, Sven Sester's name was named, and he has the right to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U103	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have much to talk about. Maybe we could put the title "Me and the World" on this treatise that was presented here. I don't think there's any further comment to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U104	The next speaker in the negotiations is Kalvi on behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U105	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, A little bit came up with that last report. Good friends! It is a budget for big decisions that will improve the lives of our people. Good Jurgen, who you're leaving! After all, the person whose survival we are improving is the guarantor of the continuity of our country, and that person is also the guarantor of our economic growth. So these things aren't in the colors Jürgen said here. But good friends! This is the first full budget of the current government and also a budget of more than EUR 10 billion. To think of the time ten years ago, it would have been 156 billion kroons. That's a pretty big budget! But more importantly, next year's budget will implement a number of major coalition decisions that will make our society more caring and coherent and directly improve the well-being of hundreds of thousands of people. As always, the budget is a highly political document, which also reflects the choices made by the coalition. The Social Democrats have been in the process of drawing up the budget for the last four years. There is reason to welcome the fact that fiscal policy choices in previous years have significantly improved the lives of children and families with children in particular, and several times reduced the number of children in poverty. There is also reason to thank you, the good former and then coalition partners, for we have made the right decisions. At the same time, in previous years, we have also publicly acknowledged that it is difficult to find a solution to a number of other major areas of society's pains and, for example, decisively to alleviate labour poverty within the framework of the current tax policy. Today's fiscal taboos have been broken and we will soon be able to hold on to a budget that has been embodied in one of the most fundamental reforms of recent decades. There is once again reason to talk about a tax turn with a strong social democratic seal, which will provide considerable support from the new year not only for the low-paid but for the large majority of Estonian workers. In a little more than three months, the tax-free minimum will rise to EUR 500, of which more than 80% will benefit workers. For all those earning up to 1200 euros per month, more than 60 euros will be available on each payday, making a total of 768 extra euros over the year. Thus, the reform will lead essentially to 13th pay for more than half of the working people. In December last year, I said from this very remote area, just before this year's state budget was regularized, that the goal of the new government union is to bring the economy out of stagnation and improve people's livelihoods. These objectives are being met successfully. Estonia's economic growth has been above 5% for some time. It is true that the prosperity of our neighbouring countries' economies has contributed to this. The Social Democrats are convinced that all members of society must participate in Estonia's development and economy, and this budget certainly serves this noble purpose. Estonia has so far excelled in the European Union as a country with great economic inequality. This has also been repeatedly highlighted in the OECD reports. In 2018, inequality in our society will decrease. I daresay it will undoubtedly decrease. I would also like to make a separate point of another big and weighty matter, one might say, even the revolutionary revolution that is taking place in the financing of our health care. In fact, the government decided in spring to refer the following four years to the medical system... I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U106	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U107	... 215 million euros and in 2018 healthcare will receive 34 million euros. There is no reason to deny that this financing decision was made thanks to the persuasion power of Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. The need to expand the income base of the Health Insurance Fund has been loudly spoken in Estonian politics for more than ten years, but unfortunately it was only this year that action was achieved. This additional money will make it possible to improve access to medical care, as well as the continuity and quality of treatment. As has been said, it is our wish that Estonia's success will reach every member of society so that every person feels that he is appreciated and important. In April, pensioners are facing an increase in pensions, which is happening, I stress, to the maximum extent possible. The average old-age pension is currently projected to rise by 6.3% to 442 euros. The 2018 budget contributes much more than before to local development, rural development and agriculture. Good Andres Ammas, the current budget, too, is channelling more money for rural development policy measures, leaving less for direct payments. That is exactly what you emphasised and emphasised: small farms receive greater support. One of the keywords of the new budget is the protected state, which means both continuity in investing in Estonia's security and the channelling of additional amounts into internal security. The salary of internal security personnel, i.e. the payroll fund for police officers, rescuers and customs officials, will increase by 4.5%. But we all know that a strong Estonia is an educated Estonia. Next year, the pay of teachers will continue to rise, with EUR 36 million more to be allocated than this year. A few words about the latest budget-related agreements. As a member of the Rõuge Voluntary Rescue Command, it is close to the heart that the government decides to allocate 1.5 million for a project aimed at making homes fire-safe. This will certainly be accompanied by a good contribution from the municipalities. Dear friends, this allows the repair of up to 800 critical heating points and highly dangerous electrical systems and directly save the lives of Estonian people. The idea spark, which was already born in the Rõuge depot in 2013, has sparked a cross-Estonian fire. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The 2018 budget will help implement a number of major decisions, it will bring more balance to society and it will help those who have had to go through more modestly. But the budget for the coming year will also be a budget thinking about the future, which will implement family policy, improve the well-being of families with children, and will certainly lead to an increase in the birth rate. Good friends! Sober mind and peasant wisdom in budget processing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U108	On behalf of the Group of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U109	Mr President, five + 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U110	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U111	Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Alliance, I would like to add some comments and thoughts on the state budget for next year to previous speeches. First of all, this budget has a number of important objectives which have been important to the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and which are certainly extremely important to the Estonian state as well. Firstly, supporting the development of the Estonian economy. In order to make Estonia's economic environment even better than it is today, we have agreed that next year there will be no mortgage income tax and that there will be no deposit income tax in the first planned form in the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, there will be no tax on sweetened beverages from 1 January 2018. Thirdly, the exclusion of packaging excise duty has also been agreed in the coalition and we are trying to find alternative solutions that are more favourable and acceptable to the Estonian business environment. In fact, all these important decisions improve the Estonian business environment and the competitiveness of our companies and support the development of the Estonian economy. I would also like to reiterate that lowering labour taxes will support entrepreneurship and also help improve people's livelihoods. The 500-euro exemption for people earning up to 1200 euros per month is certainly an important relief and a very comprehensive decision that affects a very large number of Estonian people who actually create added value in the private sector. The second set of priorities relates to family policy. Several subsidies are increasing. The use of parental benefit becomes more flexible. We are amending a number of laws, but they all relate to the state budget for next year. In 2018, for the first time in a whole calendar year, we will pay an additional monthly allowance of EUR 300 per month for families with 3 to 6 children and EUR 400 per month for families with 7 or more children. We also increase the parental pension rate by one third for each child. The aim of these measures is to better manage Estonian families and to have more children in Estonian families in the future. The third priority I want to emphasise is security and national defence, which is important, given both the state of Estonia and what is happening outside Estonia. In 2018, a three-year defence investment programme will be launched, not only has it been agreed to allocate 2% of GDP to national defence expenditure (this has also been the basis for budgeting by previous governments) but also to cover additional expenditure related to the reception of allies. So I'm stressing internal security and national defence. Internal security also includes a faster than average increase in wages for workers in a particular sector, which is planned for the budget. These things are certainly important and should increase our common sense of security. Fourth, education. The previous speakers have spoken about this, but I want to highlight one aspect that has not yet been highlighted here in this form. Apart from the increase in teachers' pay and the other important things that we do, we will legitimise support for general education private schools next year and we will also see this money in the budget. This should enable Estonia's educational landscape to be diversified in the future. This will certainly also enable private investment and private money to be brought to the development of the education system. This is a measure that should also structurally improve the Estonian state's budget and enable private capital to be brought into the education system. Some comments and comments also at macroeconomic level. Yes, it has been important for the Fatherland and Res Publica Union that we be able to draw up a state budget that is structurally balanced. This is what we discussed intensively and intensively with the coalition partners during the preparation of the budget. It must be acknowledged that we have not achieved this objective, but it must be acknowledged that the draft budget has a much lower budget than the current law allows, and also less than was planned in the spring of the country's budget strategy. So we have moved in the right direction during the preparation of the budget. As one of the parties to the coalition, we are optimists that the next budgets will achieve this goal and in the future the budget will be balanced against the growing economy. To the opposition, let us not dramatize the situation. Estonia's fiscal and monetary policy is certainly sustainable in the long term. The biggest threats in Estonia are outside the Estonian state budget and there is no point in frightening the Estonian people with the state budget. I would very much like the members of the Riigikogu not to fall victim to financial fundamentalism in the course of budgetary discussions, but to be able to rise above the level of the accountant. Having listened to some of the previous speakers, I do not have much optimism in this matter. But I want to say to characterize this budget, that it is not the face of the Socialists or the Centre Party or the IRL, it is the face of the coalition as a whole, it is extant and gold-haired inside. So, good opposition ambassadors, get into it and then you'll see it's not so bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U112	Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U113	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister! In my opinion, this state budget, which we will soon be discussing, will bring us three messages. But before I speak of them, I would like to continue with Mr Seeder. In the last words, he turned to the opposition. I once read in a wise book that the opposition can do anything, absolutely anything, but it must not do one thing: it must never, never, never support any budget. It's a sign of the opposition. If he, for God's sake, supports the budget, he's no longer an opposition, and what if he's not a coalition? So here comes the talk of structural balance, here comes the mention of communist rhetoric. Everyone has his own experience, don't you, Andres, for example, shares the structural balance, Jürgen seems to be sharing more communist rhetoric, but we're moving forward. But there are three messages. The first message is very optimistic. Ladies and gentlemen, When I worked in the local government for the eighth year, I saw what a crisis is all over the world. Then a good Prime Minister told us that, oh, what a crisis this is, that if it is called a crisis, he would want to live during this crisis. In sacred faith that he knew what he was saying, we made such a budget that three months later, when the big pieces of the budget were cut off, we were so hurt that it was simply impossible to bear. We reminded you, year after year, that you said that when the crisis ended, you would give it back to the revenue base. The crisis is coming to an end; it will end on 1 January 2020. This solid plan to end the crisis is within the current budget; it was not in the budgets that were drawn up in good times after the crisis. Second message. I have never seen so much solidarity in one state budget. The government's attention to those who were poorest immediately raised their hair on the Reform Party. I never thought I'd ever hear my colleague Ligi talking about the poorest here. It's just incredible. But it really is solidarity. Who can vote against this state budget if we really are going to raise the 13th salary if we increase the income base of local governments, if we do everything the Prime Minister talked about here and told those colleagues who were here before me? Another message. If I were in the local government right now, I'd be sitting there waiting for the government to table a budget so that I can start watching my local government figure in the budget and what it gives us. If someone had told me less than a year ago that 97% of people working in my municipality would receive more than EUR 768 next year, whereas their salary is the former one, it has not been taken into account that in many jobs wages are increasing (teachers, kindergarten teachers, rescue officers, police officers, etc.), I would never have believed it. As the ninth item on the agenda, we will be discussing increasing the revenue base and this percentage is clearly written for three years; this increase will start next year. That's 185 million dollars. Yeah, my city lost nine to 12 million because of a reduction in its income base, but in the next three years we'll get 7 to 8 million back. These little things, sometimes weird to talk about, such as the same casket money, are also important. It was never taken away without thinking that thousands of people wouldn't have one penny to cope with when they were in trouble. These subsidies will come back. In order to talk about everything that currently pleases the leaders of local governments, I should repeat at least two thirds of the Prime Minister's report. I don't have that chance and I don't really want to stall time. I'm sure we'll be able to talk about these things at night. But the third message, in my opinion, is this: it is a dream budget. Dreams, the head of local government and the dreams of ordinary people have suddenly come true. So by thanking the coalition parties, who have brought together such beautiful figures, I would like to hope that we will also have constructive work with the opposition without communist rhetoric and other such things, so that this budget will really work and will benefit the entire people of Estonia. That's probably the last thing I'm talking about right now. I wish everyone luck. We will see how this budget will be reflected in our country's lives next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U114	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I will close this item on the agenda. Thank you very much to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U115	The second item is the second reading of draft law 466 on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other. For a presentation, I would like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U116	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, The 466 bill is not only an important and certainly a very positive message for our entrepreneurs, but in a broader sense for the entire Western world. At a time when we are talking about how a liberal world order is under pressure from various threats, the Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada shows that countries in one value area sharing the rule of law are capable of taking very fundamental steps, as is the agreement that we are currently dealing with. The first reading of Bill 466 in this Chamber was completed on 20 September. We decided that the deadline for tabling amendments would be on Friday 22 September at 4 p.m. No amendments were received at that time. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out to you that the language editor's proposal contains linguistic and technical clarifications in the title and text of the draft. The title of the bill does not use quotation marks and the sentence structure has been made in accordance with the Estonian language rules. The Committee on Foreign Affairs continued to prepare for the second reading of the draft at its meeting on 25 September and approved the draft text and the explanatory memorandum for the second reading. I would remind you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs had also decided, at its meeting on 30 August, that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to take the draft 466 second reading on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on Wednesday 27 September. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the second reading of the draft be stopped, the final vote taken and the draft adopted as a law. I would also like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that today, before our final vote, both the European Parliament and Canada have taken their ratification decision, and Estonia is the eighth among the Member States to ratify the Treaty. Before us, the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada has already been ratified by Latvia, Denmark, Spain, Croatia, Malta, the Czech Republic and Portugal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U117	The round of questions will be opened by Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U118	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, A similar agreement with the US has been discussed at length in the European Union. Does the treaty that we are ratifying here today have any logical follow-up? There is such a border between Canada and the United States that it is practically impossible to monitor the flow of goods there, for example. I've seen it myself, and I know what I'm saying. How about this? Does this cause any problems in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U119	Thank you. I do not see any sign of danger in the sense that a free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada would disturb trade between, for example, the US and Canada or an oil agreement. On the contrary, I think it will hopefully have a positive effect, which will also enable the European Union and, in particular, the United States to return to the negotiations that have been taking place for years on the conclusion of a free trade agreement between the US and the European Union. The European Union is well known to have free trade agreements with a number of countries and the overall experience is very positive, which has had a positive impact on both the number of jobs and the growth of real trade. The trade between Estonia and Canada is currently taking place, for example, in the light of the experience of several companies across the United States, because, as the good questioner mentioned, it is indeed quite easy to organise trade between the United States and Canada. It is precisely by nullifying customs by means of this free trade agreement that Estonian entrepreneurs will also be able to gain better access to the Canadian market with their goods and services. The possibility of participation in public procurement, either directly as entrepreneurs or together with other partners from the European Union, is certainly also important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U120	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U121	Good waitress! You mentioned those countries that have already ratified this treaty. But what does it matter who has ratified? Are we ratifying for them or for ourselves? I'll tell you what the problem is. I recall our accession to the European Union, the most important thing was how many chapters have been closed, and no one has read what is written in these chapters. All the big shit we're in now is just because we didn't read what we signed, we wanted to be first, second or third. Are we ratifying it for this reason, and did you read it out to give us additional pressure, because you see, others have done, we have to do it, too, or is this agreement good for Estonia too? I'm kind of more interested in the other side.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U122	Thank you, good Igor! Of course, as I said in my first sentence, this international agreement is also good for our businesses. The trade between Estonia and Canada is actually in a very good position; we are in a positive position in commercial relations with Canada. Its trade volume is around 130 million, although in my opinion it could still be considerably higher. If we look at the latest free trade agreements signed by the European Union with other countries, then over the last year alone, EU exports to South Korea have increased by more than 50%. So I don't see how this could have any negative effects. Good Igor, I have read out those countries that have ratified this Treaty so far. I think that the only more significant moment in terms of ratification has been this, and it has not been ignored in any way by ladies and gentlemen of the southern neighbours, that Latvia was the first to ratify this agreement in February of this year. We also know the role Canada plays in the wider cooperation, particularly in the security cooperation in this region and, above all, in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U123	Igor Gräzin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U124	No, it's just a comment. Thank you for your good answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U125	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U126	Thank you. Dear waitress, However, I would like to clarify. Which countries, seven or eight, have specifically ratified this agreement? Are Germany and France among them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U127	Thank you. Then I'll go over it again. Seven Member States have now ratified this agreement: Latvia, Denmark, Spain, Croatia, Malta, the Czech Republic and Portugal. There are not two of them, but I believe that, after the German elections that have just taken place, and also the French elections, which were only a few months ago, they will certainly come to this ratification. A recent meeting with my Nordic colleagues also confirmed that a number of countries are already taking steps to ratify the agreement during the autumn session. However, it may be important to note that it was also emphasised at the time of the first reading that the agreement was already in force. Since 21 September, all customs authorities have been removed in bilateral trade between the European Union and Canada. So already, our companies can use the positive effects of this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U128	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U129	Good manager! Good waitress! We are part of the European Union, but not all the countries of the European Union have ratified this Treaty. What, then, will Estonia actually gain from being one of the few countries that ratify the Agreement on Relations with Canada, while at the same time being a member of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U130	Thank you. If I understood the question correctly, you asked whether there was any difference between those countries that have already ratified this agreement and those who intend to do so in the near future. As I said, this agreement is already in force. Since 21 September, this agreement has been provisionally in force and I hope that all Member States will also ratify this agreement in the visible future. As I mentioned, there are plenty of good examples of how such free trade agreements have a positive impact, both on the European Union and individually, on the ability of Member State companies to better deliver on a specific export market. What can be even better for a small country like Estonia, whose GDP depends so much on how successful our exports are?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U131	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U132	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I listened to that answer, but I still didn't understand. I asked how this agreement would affect Estonia. The Treaty already works on the one hand, but it has been ratified by a minority of the countries of the European Union. My question was specific, and I repeat it. In such a situation, how does it affect Estonian trade or relations with Canada?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U133	Thank you. I would like to say again that the agreement applies to both our companies and the companies in other countries of the European Union from 21 September, i.e. equally to all companies in Canada, too, the rights deriving from this agreement are already open. I'm sure it will have a positive effect. On 20 September, before the first reading of the draft here in the Riigikogu, we organised a seminar involving representatives of business organisations and representatives of specific companies. On the basis of these examples, it can be said that for those presently present on the Canadian market with their goods or services, these concrete examples of the loss of customs duties provide new opportunities to find partners and to export products and services to Canada. So once again, the opportunity to benefit from this agreement already exists for our businesses, as well as for all other Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U134	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, Estonia is a small export economy and Canada is our ninth trading partner outside the European Union. There are about 90 companies in Estonia that sell their products to Canada. Most of them probably welcome this agreement, as it is for these goods (fuel, mineral oil, yeast, furniture) that are the real customs in force in Canada so far. Thus, the competitiveness of Estonian goods will be improved thanks to this agreement. Estonia Piano Factory doesn't have to take the pianos to Canada first to the United States to sell them. According to the report, CETA is planning new investments. Entrepreneurs' lives are simplified. Maybe even exports to Canada will increase, we'll see. But we must not forget that there are problems with this agreement. For example, insufficient protection of workers' rights (it is not surprising that there were no trade union representatives at the aforementioned seminar) and insufficient guarantees for products with a protected name of origin. The most important problem, however, is that this agreement still allows multinational corporations to use no one's special justice system to circumvent national laws and regulations if they can call these laws a non-customs restriction. It's just disturbing. The primary interest of the special courts and the parties represented there is not the public goods of Estonia and Estonians, nor the public goods of Europe and Europeans, not to mention that this system treats domestic and foreign investors differently. That is why Belgium has turned to the Court of Justice of the European Union to doubt that this whole system is not compatible with European Union law; it is a threat to the autonomy of European Union law and to our sovereignty, to the fact that what laws apply here is decided by the people, this hall is decided here and not by any international court of specialists. That is why many countries have been delaying the ratification of this agreement. Such an investment court system is problematic, a threat to national sovereignty. That is why it is a problem that comes back to this hall sooner or later. We are warned and prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U136	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I came to the remote simply because I heard very provincial speeches from here at first, but later probably Communist speeches. There is again some sort of international imperialism that threatens the Estonian economy, and there are some Estonian companies whose welfare we should be worried about and then consider whether or not we are ratifying this Treaty. That's a shame. At a time when Estonia is more and more at risk of the world order crumbling, but the world order is made up of treaties and institutions, this agreement is a bright beam of light with Canada, because the light beam of the U.S. Treaty was erased as the presidential elections were held and free trade was decided to be brought forward. It is extremely regrettable that this happened to the United States, but the more valuable is the agreement with Canada. I hope no voice goes missing in this hall. The big picture is not made up of a few Estonian companies, although Estonia Piano Factory is an excellent example of an independent and self-sufficient company that can export. In fact, one can only virtually imagine a separate thing like the Estonian economy. The smaller the economy, the less it has its national capacity to cope with it, it is inevitable, and the more it needs international free trade. This is the thing that every one of the aspiring members of the Riigikogu deserves to learn; it is an economic theory that proves itself in practice all the time. Small economies are suffering enormously from barriers; large economies can even win them. The very closed economy of the United States, an economy with a very low share of foreign trade, dictates prices and any other conditions to others, because everyone wants to access its market. Estonian companies should break these barriers, their development would not fit into the internal market. It went the way it did with the United States, hopefully not to lastly fail, and these barriers are not going to rise, but the fact that Canada was able to agree on such an agreement is excellent. This agreement is certainly not perfect, but it is not because there have been no trade unions. The best protection of workers in terms of Estonian economy is undoubtedly free international trade and world order and security in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U138	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. No amendments have been tabled to draft 466, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft Act 466 on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other. Please take a stand and vote. 66 delegates voted in favour, one against. The draft Act on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other, initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U139	Today's third item is 'The fundamentals of sport policy until 2030' 2016. A report on the implementation of the 2006 financial year. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. First of all, the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saar, will present a 30-minute presentation. It is then possible to ask him questions, and any member of the Riigikogu may ask the minister an oral question. There are then negotiations during which representatives of the political groups can take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Riigikogu speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U140	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! €80 billion and €500,000 per year, these figures represent the consequences of low physical activity in Europe. 80 billion euros, or eight national budgets, is the estimated financial cost of this. What hurts even more than money is that half a million people, over a third of Estonia, die prematurely because they do not move enough. According to the Eurobarometer survey, 59% of the population in the European Union does not carry out sport at all or rarely. "Sitting is the new smoking," said Mogens Kirkeby, president of the international sports and culture umbrella organisation at the international conference held last week in Tartu. On the same day, the three Commissioners of the European Commission, Mr Tibor Navracsics, Commissioner for Education, Culture, Youth and Sport, Mr Vytenis Andriukaitis, Commissioner for Health and Food Safety, and Mr Phil Hogan, who is curating agriculture and regional affairs, signed the 'Tartu Call for a Healthy Lifestyle' or 'Tartu's call for healthy lifestyles' in Tartu. The Commissioners who signed the document committed themselves to taking a number of steps in the next two years to improve public health across Europe. Just as common rules and widespread campaigns have managed to reduce smoking, I believe that it is possible to put a stop to this so-called new smoking, by working even more together at European Union level, by learning from each other's experiences and by putting good ideas into practice in the countries as well. Improving the exercise is part of it, but of course the subject is wider. A healthy diet, for example, is also important. Therefore, it is difficult for me to understand the criticism of the proposals, among other things, as part of the budget debate, which wants to remove fatty pies from school pupils' menu and reduce the consumption of sugar-filled sweet drinks. By the way, the taxation of sweet drinks would be a very effective means of fighting the so-called food race that has been mentioned in recent days, as it would motivate producers to reduce sugar content in drinks sold in Estonia. The quality of public space is also important, and the question of how we can think more about living in an environment that includes light traffic, good public transport, sports facilities and recreational areas when building streets and houses and developing towns and roads. With this objective in mind, the Expert Group on Spatial Creation has been convened as an initiative of the Ministry of Culture, the Association of Estonian Architects and the State Chancellery. But now to the report on the fulfilment of the fundamentals of sport policy. Dear Riigikogu! It is no coincidence that the first issue I want to talk about is coaches. Coaches are key players in the field of sport, whose activities affect millions of people in Europe and hundreds of thousands of people in Estonia, and affect not only sports but also other areas, such as health care. Moreover, the coach teaches you to follow the principles of fair play. The more people who respect fair play, the healthier in every sense is the life of society. Think how often we catch ourselves or our friends and acquaintances just remembering the universal wisdom we remember from our coach or discovering that a teenager who was told by his parents and teachers about healthy eating was like water on a goose's back, reports that now things are going to be different. We hope, and often assume, that the coach is a role model and a visionary, as well as mastering sports-specifics, a good teacher who, at a difficult moment, helps some children back on track in both the direct and the transferred sense. The total number of trainers, both professional and voluntary, is said to be 9 million in the European Union. By comparison, there are 6.5 teachers and 2 million policemen. Therefore, as a teacher of values and decisions necessary for life, we have also made the work of shaping mobility habits that improve the quality of life and of communicating society the main topic of the sports policy of the Estonian Presidency of the European Union. Positive feedback from meetings and conferences confirms that greater appreciation of the coach's role is important, novel and topical at Member State and EU level. We can have a say on this and be credible because we have made important changes in Estonia. Since 2015, the state budget has supported up to 50% of the labour costs of youth trainers with a fifth and higher professional level. Based on two and a half years of experience, there has been a significant improvement in coach employment contracts, salaries and tax payments. According to Toomas Tõnis, member of the Executive Committee of the Estonian Olympic Committee, who has been participating in Estonian sports management for years, the support programme has restored independence in Estonia. However, the current system also had one major issue. Despite the rapid increase in the volume of public support and the increasing number of sports clubs and schools have been able to share the wage costs of their coaches with the State, this has not led to a similarly vigorous increase in wages, as the number of coaches benefiting from the Fund has also increased rapidly and the total number of training hours supported. The fact that more and more young people can practice under a higher category of trainers is only good. But if the coach does not receive a dignified and motivating salary, we cannot hope that this system will be sustainable. My conviction is that the wages of qualified trainers must reach at least the average wage level in Estonia in the near future. To achieve this, we have found both additional resources and agreed to complement the support system with the sport sector. I am pleased to inform you that the Ministry of Culture will increase the remuneration allowance for young trainers with a fifth and higher professional level to 35%, or EUR 6 million per year. This raises the current minimum wage of EUR 637 for coaches to EUR 850 per month in 2018. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The objective of the trainer wage subsidy is, on the one hand, to ensure a decent income for coaches and to value coaching, but also to improve opportunities for children and young people to play sports anywhere in Estonia. This, however, is far from the only undertaking to promote youth mobility. A year ago, in this large hall of the Riigikogu, together with you, when discussing sports policy, we touched on two very important issues: firstly, the support system for recreational activities aimed at giving every child the opportunity to participate in high-quality, guided and regular recreational activities, one of which, of course, is sport, and secondly, the reform of the basic teaching of swimming, which aims to ensure that all primary school graduates have sufficient swimming skills and thus reduce the number of drowning deaths. I am very pleased that today we can say that the advocacy support system has been in place, and this year it is set at EUR 6 million and every following year at EUR 15 million. In addition, the new government union agreed on a reform of the basic teaching of swimming and provided the necessary tools. According to the new program of basic swimming instruction, the volume of swimming hours increases from 24 hours to 40 hours. As a reminder and as a test, swimming skills in the future will be understood as the ability to pass through a set of exercises in the following order: a jump into the water with a depth over the head, a swim of 100 metres to the chest, then a dive out of the bottom, three minutes of on-site resting and swimming 100 meters to the back. If the majority of Estonian young people could achieve this level, we would be at the forefront of swimming skills in the world, which would be perfectly appropriate for a sea state with plenty of inland waters. I have no doubt that, once we look back in years, we can say that it was this reform that significantly reduced the number of drowning deaths, and both of the above actions contributed to the fact that we have reached Nordic level in terms of the number of movement enthusiasts. I would point out that the first priority development in the strategy for the development of sport policy is that the vast majority of the population is moving and sports are going. I am pleased to inform you that, when I introduced the report in this very hall last year, I spoke of 45%, according to the next survey of Turku Studies AS conducted with exactly the same methodology, for the first time, the proportion of movement enthusiasts is more than 50%, namely, the increase of 9%, or 54% of Estonian residents regularly engage in exercise at least twice a week. There are, of course, a number of reasons behind this significant increase. International studies highlight the existence and accessibility of mobility sites. It is certainly appropriate to thank Merko Ehitus, Swedbank and Eesti Energia, who already created the Estonian Health trails Foundation a dozen years ago, which aims to ensure the availability of a network of health trails throughout the year and free movement for most residents of Estonia. The Estonian Health trails have organized dozens of health trails in cooperation with volunteers, local governments and the Ministry of Culture. There are currently more than 100 outdoor health trails in Estonia and internal health trails are becoming increasingly popular, one of which is located in the Riigikogu building. The network is constantly expanding, for example, last Saturday Tartu's first marked health trail "The Circle of Emajõe" was opened. More value for healthy lifestyles in society has certainly contributed to the increase in the number of exercise enthusiasts. I believe that such attitudes can be shaped by all public figures active in sports. Many of you, but also the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, who all participated in the biggest popular sports event in Estonia at the Tallinn Marathon, or Raivo E.Tamm, Tanel Padar, Kalev Kruus and Märt Avandi, who successfully passed the heavy Ironman test during the summer, all of you will be thanked. However, in order for us to be able to say in the coming years that not just over half, but the vast majority of the population are engaged in regular movement, the Riigikogu has also taken a major step in legislative terms. I would like to thank all the MPs who supported the draft law, which envisaged the abolition of the next year's special discount on the costs of promoting the health of workers, and especially those who have been tiringly submitting a bill bearing the same idea for 15 years. They did not lose faith or give up, and at least one of them, Eiki Nestor, is also part of the current Riigikogu. As the giants say, it's worth the booze. Thanks to your support, this idea with a beard and broad support in society finally became the law, and employers can support every employee's sport tax-free for 400 euros a year. At this point, the call for all economic operators to make good use of this opportunity and the recommendation for contractors to start negotiations quickly, as next year's budgets are already under preparation. Healthy lifestyles mean less stress, better physical and mental well-being, as well as greater productivity than you want. Good Riigikogu! When we get back to the issue of money, it is time to talk about the reform of the financing of sport. The main objective of complementing the basic principles of the system of public funding for sport, which began in 2015, is to create sound and motivating funding for sport organisations, to create clear and understandable criteria, to make funding transparent and predictable, and to reduce red tape. I will bring out the main changes that have been made in this reporting period. The annual additional grant of the Riigikogu to sports federations and the Estonian Olympic Committee amounting to 1.5 million euros, i.e. the so-called roofing money was decided last year in the process of the state budget strategy to be directed directly to the sports budget of the Ministry of Culture. Thus, this year's money will reach the sports federations according to the allocation principles agreed with them and will ensure that this will continue to be the case in the coming years. In the autumn of 2016, the Government Union also agreed in the coalition negotiations that, as of 2018, the Ministry of Culture will provide an additional EUR 0.5 million in its sport budget, which will enable sport organisations to organise the remuneration of sports judges. In order to compensate for the loss of public enterprises' sponsoring amounts, the state budget for the following year provides for half a million euros, divided between sport and culture. Most of the amount for sport we have planned to give to support international competitions in Estonia. However, the reform of the financing of sport will not end with these changes. Analyses are being prepared at the Ministry of Culture to establish a system of support for the team and to regulate scholarships paid to athletes. A great deal of work has been done to reach an agreement on how to compensate people who act as sports judges on a voluntary basis for the costs they incur. This draft has been sent to the ministries for coordination, and I hope that it will reach your table in November as well. Honourable Riigikogu! As of today, 121 medals have been won from the title competitions for adults and young people. So, like in previous years, we're heading 150 medals. The first to mention is the great performance of our swordsmen at the World Championship, where three medals were won: Julia Beljayeva won the bronze medal, Nikolai Novosjolov won the silver medal, and the women's team won the gold medal of the World Championship for the first time. The fencers were also successful in the European Championship, where Julia Beljayeva and Nikolai Novosjolov both won the bronze medal. Epp Mäe's bronze medal for the European Championship in Women's Wrestling, Heiki Nab's Silver Medal World Wrestling Championship in Greece-Rome and, of course, the Estonian people's great favourite Kelly Sildaru gold medals at the Junior World Wrestling Championship in both Renn and Parking. I believe you'll all join in the good wishes for Kelly to recover quickly from her knee injury. Once again, it has been confirmed that volleyball is magnificent, for several reasons. First of all, of course, the fact that our men's volleyball team won the third strength group of the World League, held a bold competition for access to the World Championship finals and played for the fourth time since 2009 in the European Championship finals tournament. In August, I was able to observe the final tournament in Gdansk on the ground, and the magnificent emotion offered by our volleyball team now to forgive me by singing fathers and mothers, and it is hard to pass on with words when it was estimated that up to 2,000 Estonian fans had travelled there. We really wanted to win these games, but this time it wasn't the moment. However, there is something more important than victory and defeat that we can say about our volleyball players over and over again. It's a team spirit. Regardless of the situation, respect for its fellow and opponents, judges and audiences will never be lost. An honest game in the most authentic form. What could be an even better example in terms of society in general? It is good to move forward from the European volleyball championship in Poland to international sports events held or planned in Estonia. I will give you an example of the World Orienteering Championship in Tartu, the International Ski Union in the cross-country skiing stage in Otepää, the European Championship in Tallinn and the B-division tournament in the U18 European Championship in basketball. Sport organisations are doing a wonderful job to bring more and more high-quality international competitions to Estonia, and the organisers of events have shown great professionalism. Such competitions are important for Estonia, such as Tallinn International Horse Show, Tallinn Marathon, Tartu Marathon, Simple Session and Tallinn Sword. Next year, the World Cup of the Two Cup will take place for the first time in Estonia, as well as the flagship Ironman of the full-length triathlon, whose best are to redeem admissions to the Hawaiian Triathlon. The top event for football lovers is UEFA Super Cup game at Lilleküla Stadium in August next year. It is now particularly exciting to keep a thumb to the favourites of our champions, because if they do well, in less than a year's time, they can live with them in their home Lilleküla stadium. But I am convinced that there is even more potential in Estonia. The Ministry of Culture therefore submitted a proposal and received support from the Government for the establishment of an international cultural and sporting event support programme in Estonia, which has a positive economic impact. The amount planned for the first year of this measure is EUR 2 million and will start on 1 January 2018. This measure could also be one small example of how the government is taking important steps to make real progress in the economy, because these events bring more income to Estonia than they expect the taxpayer to support. I believe that by drafting the next Sport 2030 report, we can highlight a number of major international events that will be organised in Estonia thanks to the new support programme. If we already have such a great Saaremaa rally boy as Ott Tänak, it would be very nice if, as a result of this measure, an international rally took place again in Estonia. Good Riigikogu! Finally, I will mention the most important investment in sport. The Estonian sports landscape does not have a single complex for organising sports camps, where it would be possible to engage in sport in an under-specific way and would ensure a full set of options for ancillary activities (analysis of activities, medicine, catering, overnight accommodation). For years, there has been talk of the need to develop the Kääriku Sports Centre. I am very pleased that the new Government Union has finally decided to do this and has also agreed to allocate EUR 12 million for the next three years. The Kääriku Athletic Stadium awaits renovation. It is planned to set up a football field with an artificial lawn and a ball game sports building, to upgrade the hotel and to build teams' houses. The modern training centre for Kääriku gives most sports enthusiasts the opportunity to train in Estonia and makes Estonia more attractive as a land of top sports training and sports tourism. Good listeners! Last Saturday, a European sports week was opened in Tartu with the aim of popularising exercise and sport and raising the public's awareness of the benefits of sport. In most Estonian schools, many collectives and sports clubs exciting events, competitions and sports days are organised this week. Tens of thousands are able to participate in more than 900 national sports events across Estonia. In September, the Estonian Olympic Committee, the Ministry of Culture and the Community Sport will also be celebrating the month of workplace sport, which aims to acknowledge the importance of a moving lifestyle and its positive impact. On Monday, when I presented the Sport 2030 report in the Committee on Culture, the chairman of the committee, Aadu Must, asked whether the fact that he was walking at least 10,000 paces every day would go under the movement pattern. Of course it will! Moreover, it is much better as an example than a very risky decision to become an Ironman at half a century of age, for example, from a health point of view. Physical activity is far from merely sport and participation in sports competitions. The exercise does not necessarily require buying new sports clothes, finding a suitable exercise time and finding 9, 11 or 21 friends who all gather in one place at the same time of the day. Fun movement just means more movement. For example, it has to be decided that instead of a car, I will be riding a bicycle, not using public transport to travel the distance between a couple of bus stops, but walking or walking every day at least 10,000 paces, such as the chairman of the Committee on Culture. Whom Raivo E. Tamm has really encouraged, I will put it to their heart: please follow his example also in the way he took a step towards his goal, under the watchful supervision of coaches and doctors. Abrupt changes in training habits, without the help of experts, can ruin health forever instead of the desired result. And believe it or not, ladies and gentlemen and competitors, this is what I really don't want for any of you. After all, a happy and harmonious colleague is much nicer than unhappy and evil, and your feeling of well-being also has a direct impact on the health of the whole country. However, I wish that moderate physical activity would become an integral part of the day of every person in Estonia. The step for your own health is, in fact, an easy one, as said by Alo Lõoke, the leader of the health trails, only to get rid of the so-called great excuses of 'tomorrow', 'bad weather', 'no time', 'no money' or 'pussy color does not match the sweater'. Hence the appeal to all of you: continue to set an example! When today's session is over, take a tour of the Riigikogu health trail (some of you are already using this opportunity, as I understand, even quite a lot, you might say), grab a map of the newspaper conqueror's club next to the hall, which is absolutely free for you today, to find a suitable health trail for the coming and beautiful autumn-eyed weekend, which you can make a beautiful point for the European sports week. Discourage your otherwise modest mind, and do not be ashamed to share your experiences with others. Healing old women's summer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U141	Thank you so much for your presentation. The first question to the minister is put by Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U142	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I want to thank the Ministry of Culture for this report, which is really very interesting to read. My question is for you and the Ministry of Education. We know that every year one or two state secondary schools are set up. If you look at their, say, study rooms, you can see that sports areas are poorly constructed. What does it mean for our young people, who are 17, 18 or 19 years old, that it is very difficult to engage in sport? I have a question for you: will state policy on state secondary schools continue to be the same as it is now, or will something change in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U143	Thank you for your question. Although I would like to say that, of course, there could also be sport infrastructure in the procurement of state secondary schools, I understand that the Minister of Education in his administration must take into account, when planning costs, that there is a limit somewhere that can and cannot be done. At present, the construction of sports halls is indeed not part of their procurement. In each particular case, the municipalities probably wonder whether this hall should be built for a separate school or whether it could also have some other functions. But it's definitely the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research. It's really hard for me to tell them how to make their own rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U144	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We know from studies that only 24% of children aged 7 to 13 are moving to a minimum recommended level. That is a very small percentage, as you yourself have admitted. But last week, I saw a story in 'Ringview' about very poor sports opportunities for children with special needs. It turned out that children with special needs who could move could hardly be trained. What knowledge do you have, do children with special needs have training opportunities and do we have trainers who can teach such children?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U146	Yeah, this is definitely an area where we have a long way to go. However, one part of the system of support for activities of interest, which was implemented from 1 September, is precisely about finding opportunities for all children who, for one reason or another, today, for example, because of their special physical needs, find it difficult to participate in the activities of interest. It is precisely the coefficient of children with special needs on the basis of which the grant to a local authority is calculated that, as I recall, is several times higher than any other coefficient. So, in fact, all municipalities will have additional resources to review whether transport is guaranteed, whether there is an motivated and skilled supervisor and whether there is a guaranteed equipment. In fact, local authorities have a number of additional resources through this measure in order to be able to find precisely those young people who cannot access the opportunities they offer because they do not meet their specific needs. The other part of the matter is this very long curved part, to which I also referred, that is the subject of spatial planning. Whatever we are planning, we must always think about those who need a little different conditions than those who are free to sneak around on their own two legs or who have no problems with their eyesight. In the case of all spatial planning, it is certainly essential to create an environment that everyone can access and exploit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U147	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, first of all, for the presentation in the inspiring key. But it was not about the shadows of a great sport, such as doping or the corruption of international sport. By the way, as a side comment, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which has been very well informed of the activities of the Minister since then, is moving towards drawing up reports on sport corruption. To what extent should these issues go to this presentation and to what extent have they emerged during our Presidency of the European Union? I did not find anything else here except that we are helping to shape the European Union's position on amending the WADA Code, but even it did not understand what these changes were.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U149	The WADA Code will be opened, and negotiations will begin on this issue in the autumn. We have been very interested in the European Union jointly making the most of this, but this is a matter for the Member States. According to current routines, a common position is not a condition, but a common stance can be shaped, and we will certainly try to make the most of this dialogue. That is absolutely the first question when we talk about fair play. That's why I was talking about coaches, because the attitude starts with a lot of mentors. If the supervisor agrees at the outset what the rules of the game are, then the probability that someone will break these rules on their own is significantly lower. In my opinion, therefore, valuing the work and role of the coach is a key issue. However, the rules and penalties must, of course, be tightened up and, in relation to doping, there must be a zero tolerance. In Estonia, we have also tried to step up the funding of Estonian Anti-Doping in recent years so that they have the means to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U150	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! During the last reporting period, the activities were certainly very successful in fulfilling the fundamentals of sport here too, but there have certainly been things that cannot be so satisfied with. Would you tell me what you weren't satisfied with in the last reporting period?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U152	Thank you for the question and thank you for recognising that a lot of positive has been done. In my opinion, I mentioned a number of places in the report where I think we could move significantly faster, considerably further and significantly higher. If we look at movement patterns in general, yes, the trend is positive and in the last year, the survey has shown exponential growth. According to this survey, 54% of adults move regularly, but at the same time this study shows that 19% of adults do not move at all, they never make any moves to consciously improve their health through movement. Let's see the kids. As has been said in the past, children are naturally better placed to move than adults. But if we say that in some age groups and in particular in those age groups where the human organism develops in many ways, only 20 to 25% of children move to the extent that it could ideally be, then it is clear that we have a very, very, very long way to go until we can say yes, we have a harmonious and healthy society in which the vast majority of people are moving. But it all takes time. I hope that we will move in this direction as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U153	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your report and, of course, for your speech, which was very inspiring. I looked in the report for the keyword 'parasport', which I didn't find too much. I was wondering how many children with special needs participate in sports life and how many adults, I was looking for statistics. Similarly, I am interested in the issue of the financing of parasports, or also in the question of access to facilities, on which you said in one reply that this should be a priority. But I'd like to know where we really are, where we are. My more specific question concerns the reward of Olympic winners and the fact that we have slightly different systems for Olympic winners and Paralympic winners. It's very signicant. At the moment it seems to me that in many ways we differ: there is a real sport, then there is a lot of empty land, and only then will there be a temperate sport. What is this situation now, and what do you think of this current system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U155	Thank you. That's a good question. I think the current system says this, correct me if I am wrong, that all Olympic winners, including the Paralympic winners, will be treated equally and all of them will receive EUR 650 per month. Isn't that right? That's what I think it is. However, I was surprised to read your proposed bill, which was basically supported by the government, despite the fact that it was rather a draft law on the initiative of the opposition. Jüri Jaanson played a very important role in presenting it, I know he's been lucky and soulful about it. That bill of yours would make a double difference, or a paralympic winner would have a coefficient of 0.65 and the rest of the Olympic winners would be 1.3. This has certainly not been the position of the Minister of Culture; this proposal has come from the opposition of the Riigikogu. I am certainly in the opposite position. I think that these amounts must increase, and in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs there will be money for this next year. Based on current knowledge, this money is not enough to be 1.3 times the average wage in Estonia, but at least it should reach the average wage in Estonia. The government's position, which I also had to convey to the Committee on Culture, is that there is no need for any distinction. We certainly do not support the opposition's proposal to distinguish between these athletes, but we will treat them equally.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U156	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, once again, I thank you for this inspiring speech, which also makes many people of the population exercise and engage in exercise. My question, however, is about the sports museum, which was the National Sports Museum until April 2016 and which has now become the Estonian Sports and Olympic Museum of the Foundation. You also have one paragraph in the report on the museum's activities, you name the exhibitions that have been held there. But how do you see the future of this museum? According to the Ministry, what are the functions of this museum, in particular, related to sports propaganda, recreation or all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U158	I am very pleased that we have agreed that, like many other specific or regional museums, the State does not make alone, the Estonian Olympic and Sports Museum was founded by the Estonian Olympic Committee with us. It seems to me that it has already produced results in a relatively short period of time. However, I do not think that the tasks of the state, sports organisations and many other organisations for this purpose in the field of health promotion should be taken over by the museum. The role of the museum is still to collect and exhibit exhibits. Of course, much of what they do is, in a good way, the propaganda of sport and movement. But that shouldn't be their main objective or their main job, the museum still has slightly different priorities. But, of course, when the museum talks about such values as a fair game or says that it should move every day, it is elementary that it itself offers the opportunity to move. These things should be borne in mind when making a modern museum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U159	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U160	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Minister for Culture, for a very good and thorough, but also for a positive and sturdy view. My question was actually put away by Monika Haukanõm. I am pleased that the Ministry of Culture is of the opinion that people who have won the Olympic medal are not measured by a coefficient. This is the amendment I tabled with my good fellow official, Toomas Jürgenstein. But the question is about the coaches. Do you have an overview, given the transition to municipalities in the case of community education support, is the lack of coaches also a problem in counties, small places? The fact that wages are rising is very good, but is there a shortage of coaches as leaders and people who show initiative in the counties?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U161	Over 4,000 licensed coaches have been registered in Estonia. Of these, about 1,200 are youth coaches of categories 5 to 7 who go under this support system, which we have talked about repeatedly here. I don't know if this is the most serious problem. Rather, the most serious problem is whether young people are getting on and whether those who are already doing this job are sufficiently motivated and whether the qualifications that coaches have actually correspond to social expectations. In fact, as I described it, our expectation is that the coach would also be a role model and a teacher, apart from the fact that he knows the specific technical techniques needed for one sport or another. There must be a very long way to go. We've got a lot of very well-trained coaches, but there's definitely a lot less of them than we're expecting. I don't know that anyone would have said what the ideal number is, how many coaches are needed in the future. I don't have that kind of data at my disposal, and I don't think anyone's ever really predicted it in this form. But, of course, a lot of activities are covered up by volunteer trainers who don't get a dime for this job. After all, we could move towards providing all these volunteers with some basic training, so that we can reach the basic standards or categories by means of these measures, either a support for a higher category of youth coach or a support system for recreational activities. If the kid goes to practice, we need to know that we can trust his coach a hundred percent. Since there are currently not enough accredited coaches or that system is still in many infancy, we often do not know what preparation is for those coaches who deal with children. I think it's still a very long way to go. But, as I said, it is not just our problem; it is actually a problem for the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U162	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U163	Good manager! Good waitress! When the study last September discussed improving children's swimming lessons and six times more funding, did you know that there were no drowning deaths in 2016 and that, in fact, children drowning very rarely, this is the tendency, and besides, only a third of the drowning people have drowned while they can swim outside? But if you look at it regionally, there were 21 drowning deaths in South Estonia, but in West Estonia, in a vast area, only nine and seven times less, or three, on the islands. At the same time, there are nearly 700 swimming coaches. Does this funding, this 1.3 million, also take into account the regional aspect, so that the South Estonian Region of the Rescue Board receives much more money than Western Estonia or the islands?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U164	Thank you for the statistical review you presented and which was certainly somewhat subjective. The funding shall take into account the number of children who need to be trained in swimming regardless of the area in which they live. I will not even speculate on why there are fewer deaths in the islands in proportion; logical conclusions can be drawn from everyone. But all those adults who have never learned to swim and who can now drown were never children and were never taught to swim in school. If we want people to have the basic ability to save themselves in the future, whatever life situation they suddenly get into the water, then all people have to learn to swim as children. There is no other way to improve this preparation. Teaching people like us to swim may also be one of the activities in the future, but it is certainly much less effective and maybe more resource-consuming than dealing with children.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U165	Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for a very thorough review. Please express your thanks to your colleagues in the Ministry and the Olympic Committee because they have produced a very meaningful overview. Thank you. But my question concerns the financing of sport. One of its important objectives, perhaps even the most important, of Sport 2030 is to increase the number of people engaged in regular mobility and to promote youth mobility. I would like to apologize in advance for a slightly simplified example, but in this light, is it justified that the hobbies of a young person dealing with Sumo in Viru County are financed three times less than the hobbies of a wrestling youth or that the hobbies of a young person who is orientate in Võru County are financed three times less than those of a young person who is skiing? In particular, non-Olympics receive less than 10% of the total funding. Is that justified?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U167	Thanks for asking. Let us recall how this agreement has been concluded. In my opinion, the original version was concluded in 2012. Sports destinations and the Estonian Olympic Committee, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, developed a financing scheme based on the first results and with a view to good practice in the management of sport, which somehow did not apply. We started implementing it from the previous year, 2016. Because a few years had passed, we realized that this situation wasn't really the case anymore, and maybe not all things had been thought out at first. You still have to put the water in the pool so you can try and see if there's another hole. In the first year, we made extraordinary reserve funds to balance these major changes, and then together with the sport organisations, we made a very thorough new round to see what the criteria are for these subsidies to be distributed. All the objectives and coefficients in this scheme are accepted by the sector itself. We have, of course, played a leading role, and we have been thinking that ultimately, the basis for enthusiasts must be as wide as possible. It can't be that there are only vertices and no enthusiasts. This should mean that the principles of fair play, i.e. basically good practice in the management of sport, etc., must certainly be applied. Such quality indicators are very important and the state certainly wants them to be strongly represented. But this money-sharing agreement between areas, whether or not it is an Olympic or not, was still very much shaped by sport organisations themselves. Of course, no such agreement must be set in stone. If there are some things where sports organisations themselves feel that it is not fair and not quite understandable and directs them to do irrational things if they want to achieve a result, then of course we are ready to negotiate again at any time. So when sport organisations raise the issue, we will certainly not treat it as a stoned document forever, but as much as we will be happy to discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U168	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U169	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, I too thank you for a constructive, thorough and positive report, both in form and in substance. I am glad that the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the story have blessed me, in the sense that I always go through this health trail here and there are five stages between the hall and the office each time. But my question is about the links between regional policy and team sport. We have complained that, as a small country, we are unable to participate in the team areas, but fortunately Iceland has proved to be able and able to do so, with its huh! tradition and now Slovenia. But my question comes about Estonia. We have the problem with team areas, that mostly only Tallinn teams, there are the first four teams in football from Tallinn, and the same is in basketball. Luckily, Rapla was jamming the cards now. What have we done to ensure that sports teams in smaller centres can also play a part in excellence? What can be done here, and what are we planning to do in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U170	A number of these measures have been described today, and I must say that not only in relation to sport, but also in relation to activities of general interest, of which sport is a very large part. The whole of the national attitude towards balancing the opportunities of the regions became the first revolutionary development, precisely in conjunction with a system of support for interest activities developed by the Ministry of Culture. There is a very high coefficient for children with special needs, and the second coefficient that is there will allow significantly higher support to be paid to create better conditions for distributed areas than for densely populated areas. It is accession-neutral, i.e. regardless of the fact that local governments are now joining, it remains so. These regions have been identified and all those who, as a result of disunity, have to work significantly harder to develop transport organisation and infrastructure, because there are fewer users, etc., will receive a much higher coefficient through this action of interest. For example, there are more than 400000 inhabitants in Tallinn, of whom children make up a significant proportion, there are dense settlements and it is much easier to organise things and to preserve diversity. Tallinn's support for this support system is quite less than EUR 1 million, if I say more specifically, it is perhaps just over EUR 800000, but Saaremaa (without Muhu) with 34000 inhabitants receives a grant of half a million euros. I hope the islanders will forgive me if I was wrong as an islander with the population, I certainly hope that this number will increase. That's the difference that comes from this disincentive component. This measure clearly states: in order to create a more equal opportunity so that children who want to exercise in the countryside are not in a much worse position than urban children, the state must balance this system in this way by providing additional resources to the area of dispersal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U171	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U172	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, thank you for paying so much attention to sport. But I want to talk to you about sport, which I do not think gets enough attention, perhaps because this practice is moving relatively close. Last year, when it was the international year of Paul Keres, chess were given more attention than usual in Estonia, and you also respected several chess events with your participation. It seems to me that now everything has fallen into the hands of the traditional freeze and, for the Ministry of Culture, chess is on the same stick as funding and attention to the submarines. Please send your message now from that remote control to these many tens of thousands (I do not know exactly how many there are in Estonia) of chess enthusiasts. What is your chess place in Estonian sport and culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U173	Thank you. As the checkers were reminded, I recommend monitoring the checkers-MM in Estonia this weekend, which once again brings significant international attention to at least one sector. Chess is, of course, part of the identity of Estonian sport; there is no way to dispute it. I was in chess for at least a second as a little boy, too. But now we come back to the question of whether there should be some priority areas in Estonia and say that we put the money there and forget the rest, and this decision is based on traditions, or perhaps someone wants to do genetic research to make it clear which sport we could be most successful in. There is always an opportunity to initiate these debates. So far, Estonia has chosen the path of trying to give everyone an opportunity and in those areas where there is a greater number of enthusiasts and where the sports federation itself is doing better work, as I replied to my colleague Mälberg, the state's support under the agreed support scheme is higher. I very much hope that chess will thrive and that this scheme, which has already been agreed or will change in the future, will provide much more support in the run. Certainly it is an excellent logic practice game that contains all the elements of honest sport as well as other sports. I respect this game very much, and I think that in Estonia it is respected in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U174	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Minister. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Jüri Jaanson from the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for his review of the implementation of the fundamentals of sport policy, but I must begin my presentation with a statement at the Minister's address, precisely because of what he said about the support of the Olympic winners. In the draft law amending the Sport Act in the procedure of the Riigikogu, the initiators have not made any distinction between athletes and temperate athletes, nor have they intended to reduce this amount of aid, on the contrary, they want to increase it. Now for the report. Last year, 2016 was first and foremost the Olympic year. We got a medal and a bunch of seats in the top ten. This year has also been a very successful year: we have a gold medal from the World Championship, we have many other medals and successful sports. These experiences and emotions have certainly boosted the promotion of healthy lifestyles among the people. The implementation of the Sport Policy Development Plan in 2016 and 2017 should be assessed against the strategic final objectives set out in the Development Plan. The most important of these are the mental and physical balance of Estonians and the increase in healthy life expectancy and the resulting opportunities for self-realization. As a tactical objective, the development plan makes a significant contribution to the annual increase in the number of people involved in recreation and, in this respect, to reaching Nordic levels. Last year's results are good to note the likely increase in the number of mobility enthusiasts and the increase in the number of mobility places. The growth of state subsidies for sports federations and sport at all is also commendable. We will continue to maintain a level of achievement in sport. Personally, of course, I hope that my colleagues, too, will enjoy the medal won by rowers from the Rio Olympic Games last year. It welcomes the implementation of support for youth activities from the beginning of this year's school year, as well as the awareness of the need for early swimming education and the planned development of a children's mobility programme. From the point of view of sport organisations, the reform of public funding for sport and the development of a comprehensive solution to the remuneration of sports judges would contribute to the development of exercise and sport. From the point of view of sport organisation and economy, we need to keep up with the transformation of sport into a service-based industry in particular. The Reform Party Group continues to attach importance to the development of healthy mobility and eating habits and health-friendly lifestyles already in kindergartens and primary schools, the wage growth of coaches as bearers of basic sports values, and better access to mobility facilities for all, including people with special needs. But as we approach critically, we need to find a solution to the problem of some ambiguity in the concept of exercise and the method of assessment. From a methodological point of view, it could be known whether alternative forms of physical activity, such as gardening or woodbreaking, which in themselves also provide good and sufficient physical activity, fall within the definition of exercise. After all, the figures and percentages given in the report on the implementation of sport policy depend on this. There's really a lot of these figures. The decrease in the state's sport investment compared to last year in the activities of the Ministry and the Government raises questions, despite the improved possibilities of the state budget. It is good to note that a number of important sports objects are available at Tehvandi Sports Centre, Rakvere Sports Building, Kalev Central Stadium...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U176	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U177	... Viljandi Stadium is all eligible for support. Further support for the universal sport object Kääriku has also been planned. At the same time, Pärnu water sports development opportunities also need the support of the state; this is a sport that cannot be practiced in South-East Estonia. Among other things, the four sports clubs that gave the Olympic medals to Estonia are eagerly looking forward to the support of the state, and the building complex from the 1950s should be renovated into a modern training-preparation centre. This would also significantly improve mobility opportunities for young people. At the beginning of next year, the impact of inflation will certainly have to be re-evaluated as a disgracefully low Olympic win-winner. The treatment of former sports heroes shows the country's attitude towards athletes as a whole. Estonia holds the Presidency of the European Union in the second half of this year and we have the opportunity to present our topics in Europe. Increasing the role of trainers as key players in sport in society is extremely important both in the field of performance sport and in the field of recreational sport. It is very, very difficult to overestimate the importance of their skill in shaping young people. Equally important to enable athletes to pursue their post-sport careers is to broaden their chances of obtaining education, especially during the time they engage in top sports. Finally. Last week, 23 September, a European sports week was opened, during which several sports can be visited across Estonia. It's a commendable cause. Let us join you there! The Reform Party considers that the development of sport and exercise in our society is on the rise, which can only be praised, but can also be better supported. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U178	Dmitri Dmitriev on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U179	Ladies and gentlemen, The long-term strategy paper "Basics of Estonian Sport Policy until 2030" in the field of sport can generally be considered positive and it is a pleasure to see that the Government of the Republic is also showing love for sport with the new state budget. If the state contributes more to the popularisation of sport, the people of Estonia will be healthier and happier. If we look at the movements of Estonian people and the indicators that characterise them, it turns out that the statistics of recent years are quite encouraging. The number of our sports clubs and organisations has increased from year to year, as has the number of people who regularly engage in exercise. New sports facilities are being built all over Estonia and older and demolished facilities are not forgotten to be repaired, as is currently the reconstruction of Kalev Central Stadium. It is also a good example of the government's recent decision to develop Käärku sports centre into a modern training centre. Athletics stadium is expected to be renovated, a football field with an artificial lawn and a sports building for ball games are planned. The modern training centre that emerges for Kääriku gives most sports enthusiasts the opportunity to train in Estonia and not in foreign sports bases. Such sports facilities are much more needed throughout Estonia. There is also a need for special attention to be given to the sports fields and running paths at schools, which have been discussed by our colleagues. When it comes to the activities of the new government, one long-term promise made by the Central Party, which has now been fulfilled in the lifetime of this government, cannot or will not be overcome, I am thinking of encouraging the reimbursement of sports expenses for employees. As a result of this change, employers will be able to support staff mobility activities up to EUR 400 per year without paying the special preferential tax. This is a very welcome step that will help to eliminate the perception that investment in machinery is normal, but investment in people is not. Good ambassadors! When we talk about sport policy, we must also pay attention in the middle of everything else to the remuneration of coaches and judges. It is no secret that the issue of salaries and social guarantees for coaches and judges has been acutely in the air for a long time. This has also been mentioned by the Minister of Culture. The area has been plagued by chronic lack of money, and this has left a mark on our sports situation. I am not just talking about top sport here, but rather about creating the most common mobility habits among our children. A small wage does not motivate anyone to become a coach, regardless of the size of the internal combustion. If you can't feed your family with your salary, you'll inevitably have to find another job. That is what has happened to our coaches. I am therefore sincerely pleased that the country has decided to increase the remuneration fund for youth trainers with higher professional qualifications in the coming year by increasing their remuneration significantly. This is progress, but we will not be able to rest at this level, nor will wages have to grow further. There are other positive initiatives on the agenda for the popularisation of sport in the new government, which I would like to highlight, for example, the extension of the basic education programme for children's swimming and greater funding. This is a vital skill. Developing a children's mobility programme is also very important to strengthen children's mobility habits. As a great sports friend, I welcome the transformation of physical education class into a modern exercise course and call for an increase in the number of hours of exercise. After all, all research shows that insufficient physical activity is a major problem for the health and normal development of Estonian children and young people. We can change that, but we must approach it playfully and creatively, not with harsh force. A few words about the management of Estonian sports and top sports. Looking at the activities of the Estonian Olympic Committee during the last year, I am not sure whether the underground movement of the Olympic Committee can be satisfied with the first year of office of the new President. I am of the opinion that the business of Estonian sport and politics cannot be run in part, but it remains up to the President of the Olympic Committee and the subcommittees to decide what kind of sport management they want to see. My recommendation is to focus entirely on promoting Estonian sport. As Chairman of the Estonian football support group, I will, of course, conclude with the issue of football. 2018 is a very special year for Estonian football. Namely, on 14 August next year, A.Le Coq Arenal UEFA champions will have a super-cup final between the European league winners. This is the opening battle of the European club football season, which is broadcast by over 200 countries and is monitored by tens of millions of people on TV. This is an excellent opportunity to introduce Estonia and sport to the whole world even more. The Republic of Estonia is about to be 100 years old. Healthy and viable people are needed to keep our country strong. I believe that the basic document on sport policy until 2030 will give a strong ground for the development of our sport and for the improvement of public health. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on all of you to promote Estonian sport, because the movement has the life force of all of us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U180	Mr Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U181	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good Minister of Culture! Ladies and gentlemen, It happened that my first speech in the Riigikogu was on the same subject a year ago. I'm starting where I ended up about a year ago. I quote once again the appeal of our legendary powerman Georg Lurich to the Estonians in 1910, over a hundred years ago. Georg Lurich said: "Hold your health! We may not have so many sick homes, poor houses, prison houses, also taverns, and similar facilities at the expense of the public. ' But now to Sport 2030. It is certainly a diverse, optimistic and balanced base document, and its implementation also seems to be smooth. I would like to comment on this on three stages of the pyramid: top sport at the top of the pyramid, as well as public sport and invasion. It seems to me that something has changed in understanding sport over the last few years. Mr Hallemaa drew attention to this in his question. I would also like to remind you of the European basketball championship that ended a week and a half ago. It won Slovenia, which is only moderately larger than Estonia in its population. Thanks to Slovenia, but also to a much smaller Iceland than we have, and why not, Latvia, which has resisted it, has begun to crumble the notion that in super popular ball games, which are often also the basis of the movement, only the big countries are at the top. This stereotype is changing and it gives hope that Estonia's order will also have to shine. When we look at the implementation of Sport 2030, it seems to me that we are seeing the prerequisites for its radiance. For example, let's look at the legendary Kääriku sports base, it's a legend, especially in South Estonia, but it probably doesn't matter here, the money has been allocated and plans have been kept, and one of our own sports bases will be once again a place where our peaks can improve their skills. I will still mention the issue of coaches, which, although much has already been stopped, is very important that their pay will be more competitive. I have two sports children in my family, and I can see that coaches are just like the second father and mother to them, what the coach says is often more authoritative than what I say to them. I often have to admit that they have said the right things and have kept a balance between learning and sports and all that. This was about top sports. The popular sport is that the wider the base of the pyramid, perhaps the more popular the sport is, the more the peaks are up. One of the bases of Sport 2030 is the assumption that people are moving. It is true that computers are increasingly linking us to a chair and a desk. We all have experience of how unexpectedly exciting messages from smart devices can stop walking for several hours, etc. I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U182	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U183	We've progressed. In a report a year ago, the Minister of Culture stated that more than 40% of the population in Estonia is regularly engaged in movement; today it was already mentioned that there are more than 50% of them. True, there is more to be pursued. In the Nordic countries, there are 65-70% of these people, and they are also trying to move on from this. For example, the new Finnish curriculum has increased the number of hours of physical education. I mean, they think it wasn't enough so far. It seems to me that in implementing Sport 2030, the necessary infrastructure for public sport will continue to be built. They create trails, they are light traffic paths or sports trails. For more than ten years, the Social Democrats have had a desire to abolish the special advantage on workers' health costs. This has now become a reality. Important financial support has been provided in the form of student sport clubs. To sum up, the environment calls for us to move. The 'Sport 2030' ideal is to bring mobility to everyone, including people with disabilities. This cannot always be done without a community, and there are very important positive examples. I would like to give a very cool example of the expression of the Sport 2030 spirit. I quote yesterday's Postman: 'The international movement of sports volunteers SCULT and voluntary sports friends will take us on October 7th (This is about ten days from now. - T. J. at the 10 km distance of the Tartu city marathon, the Mari-Liis Star of a blind girl. The race is especially marked by the distance passed by a young woman on a running trainer carried by her volunteers. ' A little from Mari-Liis. He lost his eyesight in third grade, is actively involved in blind table tennis, and has even made a parachute jump. He likes all kinds of extremes, and he says: "The run-through of the crowd over the heads of other runners is a kind of extremeness for me and the fulfillment of dreams. " For my part, I promise that I will be a runner on October 7, thinking about the disabled and also about Mari-Liis and waving to him, even though I know he doesn't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U184	On behalf of the Group of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Fatherland and Res Publica Association. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U185	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, on behalf of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to thank the Minister for this meaningful overview of the implementation of sport policy. I am pleased to note, having read this review and listened to the Minister, that the Estonian people continue to be a sports people and the changes that have been implemented in recent years in the organisation and financing of Estonian sport have certainly taken steps in the right direction. They have created better opportunities for people to exercise in Estonia and also provided a good basis for improving the health of the Estonian people. But there's always more and better. In my limited time, I want to raise as keywords those topics where I see problems and what we should look at more in the future in the Estonian sports organisation. But before going to these topics, I want to acknowledge sports clubs, sports people themselves and the Estonian Olympic Committee, who have contributed very much to the organisation of sports in Estonia and who, in my opinion, are working quite well with each other. Now, these things. There is no way to get over or around money and funding. Although I am of the opinion that the decisions taken on the financing of sport in recent years have taken steps in the right direction, there is one thing that is deeply concerned about, and that is what we should think about in the future. If we look at and compare the role of the state in financing (it has increased), the role of local governments (it is very different because the attitude of local governments to organising sport is different) and the role of the person, but above all the parent, we can see that parent participation has increased most rapidly in recent years. I think that, in many ways, this is the limit where a parent is unable to pay more for his child's participation in a circle of interest or in a club, whether achieved or achieved immediately. I think that there is no very large reserve to increase the financing of sport. That is something we must definitely think about in the future. Another thing is student sport. There wasn't much about it in the review, but I don't think we've been able to exploit the potential of our student sport. There are countries in the world where country sport is predominantly based on student sport. They may be very far away, America will soon come to mind, but if there is a strong youth sport, student sport, then surely there is also a strong competition sport and recreation in the country. I am thinking specifically of student sport as a sport of competition, not as much as a sport of exercise. We certainly have reserves here, and we should make better use of that potential. I would like to mention further the role of Audentes Sports Gymnasium in Estonian sports. It should be considered how it could be better used, particularly in view of regional sports problems, which were already mentioned in this Chamber. The Audentes Sports Gymnasium will certainly play an important role here, especially in teams. How to make better and affordable use of this potential, bearing in mind the wallet, is certainly a place for discussion. We need to think about how to make better use of sports opportunities in power structures, or even vice versa, we need to think about the contribution of power structures to Estonian sport. In several countries, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence contribute quite a lot to the national competition sport, the top sport. The Estonian state will also do so. But I think it could be done more. I'm about to remember the Defence League. As a member of the Sakala chess club of the Defence League, I know that before the war, Sakala's chess club was at its own. Our athletes participated in the victory of the Argentine Cup, the Sakala Defence League sports club founded the oldest traditional sports event in Estonia, i.e. around Lake Viljandi, etc. How much and how sport is done and how sport is supported by the Defence League and our power structures is definitely another reserve that we can make better use of for Estonian sport. Of course, it is outside the realm of the Ministry of Culture, but we should try to make better use of it. Next, local authorities. In the context of the current administrative reform, if the borders of local authorities change and the rural governments are eliminated, it is important to see that traditional regional events, championships, and so on, are not neglected. This continuity, which has been achieved on the ground in cooperation with regional sports federations, must certainly continue. I think we need to monitor this in the course of these reorganisations. I can only make a very brief point on regional sport, and I will mention two aspects. It is very difficult to engage in teams in small places where there are few children. Individual areas are somewhat easier, but for team areas this is a serious problem. We need to think about how to better organise this in the settlement area. Secondly, the sports potential of Ida-Viru County is far from being exploited. Let's look at team areas. If we exclude football and hockey, no women or teams have participated in the Estonian championship in volleyball, basketball or handball. It certainly does not match the size and potential of Ida-Viru County. Finally, I'm talking about coaches. After the contestants, or athletes, and people involved in sport at all, the following are definitely coaches. This is a serious concern. I am pleased to note that we have introduced a system of national support for coaches and are trying to develop it further. This is again a step in the right direction. But how can you motivate young people to work as a trainer when this work is actually often done outside normal working hours, or at night and at the weekend next to their family? It's complicated. Coaches are certainly the key word for organising sports and youth sports in Estonia. Finally. When Thomas Jürgenstein started the quote, let me finish with one quote that I remembered. Lennart Meri has quoted a slogan from the University of Tartu students from the 1950s 'Every kolkhoz wrestling mat and group of chessmen! '. I hope we never quite get to this kind of sports arrangement, but we'll definitely get to better organization than we do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U186	Krista Aru will continue the negotiations as a representative of the Estonian Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U187	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Minister, thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to thank all athletes, sports federations, Ministry of Culture, Minister, as well as all schools who have contributed very much to the fact that the fundamentals of our sports policy, as well as the Minister's report on its implementation in the last year, can be based on a concept that is actually part of our culture and our mental health, because there is a healthy spirit in the whole body. So, first of all, I welcome the conceptual basis of all this sport policy, which is really based on the fact that mobility is a part of culture, and which is the basis for both the current decisions to organise funding and the further development of the general sports movement and sport sport. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would just like to make a few points here in order not to repeat everything the previous speakers have already said. First of all, we are very pleased that the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, with its current structure, also enables the activities of the Sport Foundation. This is a huge help for the entire sports movement and also for competition sports. Let us remember that there was no sports foundation in the pre-war Republic of Estonia, and this certainly left its mark on the activities of all sports federations. We're in a much happier and better situation here. So I also welcome all the members of the Sport Foundation Council who have done their job well and in the best faith and will to promote Estonian sport. Perhaps most of all, I would like to draw the attention of the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of Culture to the need to continue working with the Ministry of Education and Research, which has actually started quite well already through the funding of recreational education. But now it becomes even more important because mobility education comes into school curricula with a completely new organisation, which also requires help for teachers. Not all at once, but it is precisely such a general cultural starting point that would probably be necessary for the introduction and implementation of mobility education in schools and certainly also in kindergartens, I am thinking of this part of the Ministry of Culture. Secondly, I would like to emphasise further what Mr Seeder said earlier, namely the importance of dealing with regional differences. There's probably a lot of work to be done here, too. Being from Ida-Virumaa, I know very well the possibilities there and the extent to which there is a rarity of movement in the area, perhaps in competition, but also a rarity of movement itself, on the enthusiasm of just one person. If this enthusiast exists, there will be opportunities. In order not to get tired of these enthusiasts, the Ministry of Culture should look more and more strongly at the big picture. Audentes Sports School has done a very good job, we have no doubt about it... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U188	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U189	...but apparently there are still ways to develop. Because isn't it a question of whether it could be 9/12? A class of kids from other schools? There is a good sports base, there are very good coaches, there are all options. Is this not one of the places of discussion in the formulation of the terms of this new public procurement? Or if this idea isn't quite mature right now, we could at least think about how to make much better use of all the possibilities of Audentes. On regional development, I would certainly like to emphasise on behalf of the Estonian Free Party that Estonia is so small that opportunities that open up in one place or another are always noticed here, at central government level, and timely sighting and recognition could be even more common in sport and could be used even more. Thank you and the strength of all athletes, sub-unions and minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U190	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I would like to thank all those who took an active part in this debate. I consider this item closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U191	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law 360 on the amendment of the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Küti, to act as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U192	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! I will give an overview of the 360 procedures between the first and second reading of the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and the related amendment of other laws. Since the first reading actually took place a long time ago, namely on 8 February, I simply recall that the main objective of the 360 draft law is to implement the principles set out in the Child Protection Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2016, and to ensure that all children in need are assisted. The main objective is to abolish the institution of minors' committees and to create the presumption that the child who committed the offence, who is likely to have a greater need for assistance, will receive the same assistance as other children in need. Access to the state-funded social rehabilitation service and reconciliation service will also be improved and regulation of a closed childcare facility will be established. More importantly, as early as 2009, the Chancellor of Justice gave the Riigikogu an overview in which he stressed that in 2009 there was actually not enough opportunity to help the child in the legal order. After the adoption of this draft, the opportunities will certainly improve, as will those activities that prevent an offence. I will now give an overview of the procedure for this law and of the various very, very long sessions of the Committee on Social Affairs. The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws including on 9 January. The first reading was completed on 8 February. The deadline for submitting amendments was 22 February. One amendment came by then, it was tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I can tell you in advance that the Group of the Estonian Reform Party withdrew its amendment at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 12 September 2017. In particular, they had a proposal to put the draft into effect from 1 July 2018, six months later, not 1 January 2018. This was a very well-founded proposal. As an example, local authorities were not prepared to implement all the changes so quickly after the elections. At this point, i.e. at the time of the proposal, however, it was not exactly known when the rural governments would cease to exist. The withdrawal of the proposal was due to the fact that by the time we continued to deal with this draft in the autumn, it was already clear that the rural governments would be shutting down on 1 January 2018, but there should be no vacuum in the legislative process. Juvenile commissions are also shutting down their activities, while rural governments are shutting down. Therefore, the withdrawal of the proposed amendment was fully understandable and justified. Now, the committee itself turned to the Estonian Association of Cities, the Estonian Association of Municipalities, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, the Estonian Society of Psychiatrists, the Health Board, the NGO Children's Protection Association, NGO Papaver, NGO RuaCrew, OÜ Corrigo, Tallinn Children's Security Centre and also the Foundation for Crime Prevention. Our opinion was sent to us by the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments, the Health Board and the NGO Child Welfare Association. The Minister for Social Protection also tabled two amendments on 21 February, but he withdrew them on 15 September. After the current item, the large Riigikogu Hall will also process draft law 489. These amendments, which were submitted by the Minister for Social Protection by 21 February, are reflected in the Act 489 - the Act amending the Social Welfare Act once more. After the first reading, the Committee on Social Affairs met in seven sessions to discuss the draft and prepare the second reading. The first took place on 16 May, the second on 30 May, then on 8 August, then on 5 September, 12 September, 18 September and 25 September. Since the draft has to do with helping children with special educational needs, we had a meeting with the Committee on Culture on 14 September. So there were eight sittings in this room before today's second reading. At its first meeting on 16 May, the members of the Commission received an overview of the draft law amending the Penal Code and related to the amendment of other laws 453, concerning the amendment of the treatment of juvenile offenders. We were briefed by representatives of the Ministry of Justice. The next meeting was on May 30th. Then we listened to the head of the Child Protection Department of the Social Insurance Board about how the Child Protection Act has been implemented so far and how the Child Protection Department, which was established at the Social Insurance Board after the adoption and implementation of the Act, has acted. At the third meeting, on 8 August, a debate on the draft was held with a large number of representatives of interest groups. There we paid attention to the financing of the service and the sustainability of the funding. I am pleased to note that at the last Social Affairs Committee meeting, the Ministry of Social Affairs had a very good message for us. While some pilot projects were initially planned to be financed from European Union funds, EUR 680000 has now been found in the state budget for this purpose. If funding from the European Union is to start, it is not very certain whether this activity will be sustainable and how it will continue later. At the next meeting on 5 September, stakeholders were re-meeted and focused in particular on issues related to the protection of children's health data, as well as prevention. Those problematic cases where the medical system has intervened or where the medical system has been approached should also quickly reach the social worker. This meeting also presented the 2016 "Personal data in the social welfare and health care sector' guide drawn up by the Data Protection Inspectorate. It was explained that first the person needs protection himself and then his data. The data is delicate, and no one expects the diagnosis to be recorded. Explaining the need for help and providing the reason need not be a letter of diagnosis. At this meeting, which we held on 5 September, the members of the Commission, due to the issue of children with special educational needs, expressed a desire to meet with the Minister for Education and Research and to hear his views. Since the Committee on Culture had such a meeting on 14 September, we were able to hold such a joint session. Now, on 12 September, the amendments were discussed. A total of 14 amendments were tabled to this draft. They were discussed in the presence of representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs at two meetings of the Commission. On 12 September, the proposals were partly examined and those which did not raise questions were decided. Further discussions were held next week, 18 September, and decisions were taken this time. It was decided to propose that this draft law be put on the plenary agenda by 27 September (this was consensual), that the second reading be closed (also consensual), that the draft be sent to third reading when the second draft is closed, including by 11 October (consensual) and that the draft be put to the final vote. The last meeting of the Social Committee on 25 September approved the linguistic and corrective amendments to the text of the draft text as well as the second reading documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U193	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U194	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Committee on Social Affairs has been working on this bill for a very long time and in depth, and has also met representatives of interest groups. How do you, who has a very large and diverse experience in this area, after all these meetings, discussions and debates in the Commission yourself assess whether our local authorities are prepared for all the rights and obligations that are now falling upon them under this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U195	Thank you. Thank you very much for this question. In my report, I forgot to congratulate those who did the work of the juvenile committees. That is why I am simply saying, also in the interest of the verbatim report, that in 2014 there were 15 such commissions according to the Estonian Education Information System. These were county juvenile commissions that worked for rural governments. Almost a thousand decisions were made in one year. There were 52 juvenile commissions working with local authorities, which made just over a thousand decisions. These people did very good work in Viljandi and Tartu, with a heartfelt job for over 20 years. Even when the law didn't demand, they came to the county government. That is why I was very pleased to hear Urmas Reinsalu's bill, which is affected by this law and which also amends the Penal Code, acknowledged and praised these people for their work. As regards whether local authorities are ready, yes, I believe that after we have received confirmation from the Ministry of Social Affairs that they will be assisted and supported through the Social Insurance Board, where the Child Protection Department has been set up. This may lead to setbacks for the time being, but they are being tried to minimize them. Child welfare workers are doing their job very well, but if there are new large municipalities, it is necessary to create a new regime on the basis of which people work together to make this system run smoothly, like a good gear mechanism. After these seven sessions and the explanations and reviews of specialists from both the Minister for Social Protection and the Child Protection Department, I believe they can handle this. The real aim is, in fact, that children receive assistance as early as possible, including rehabilitation services, not if they have already committed an offence, but proactively. When the Child Protection Act came into force in 2016, it was already adopted in the summer of 2014, the main objective was that the child be looked at in all respects as a whole, even though there are different authorities and systems. So, I think the municipalities can handle it. The heart still shakes a little, because the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities also expressed a small concern. But very good cooperation has been done for children across borders because people live in one municipality, work in another. I believe in our child welfare and social workers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U196	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'll open a microphone for negotiation, for second reading, for anyone who wants to. I can't identify that wish. 14 amendments have been tabled for the 360, all of which are from the Committee on Social Affairs. Let's go through them together. The first amendment, the decision of the commission, is to take full account of it. So are the second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th amendments. The decision of the commission is one for all: take full account. The amendments to the 360 draft have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the 360 draft. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U197	The fifth item is the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 489. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, please waitress for the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U198	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! This bill is before you at this moment precisely because there are changes in the administrative arrangements and the rural governments are about to complete their activities. However, this draft not only concerns the things that need to be dealt with in relation to the delegation of tasks, but also solves and changes important substantive issues. The purpose of this draft is to transfer the current tasks of county government in organising social welfare to the Social Insurance Board or to transfer them to local governments. The second main objective is to redesign child replacement care services in line with the recommendations of the Green Paper on child replacement care without parental care, in order to ensure equal treatment of children in substitution care, appropriate preparation for independent living and certainly an increase in family-based care. The following tasks are transferred to the Social Insurance Board: supervision of social services, licensing of social services, organisation of assistance for children with a high need for assistance, this is also linked to the above-mentioned draft law and the collection of statistics. In addition, the following changes will be implemented: Quality requirements for social services will be introduced and the obligation to enter data in the data register of social benefits and services will be extended to STAR. The field of use of the Social Benefits and Services Data Register is complemented by a family register of carers. It is the same register as it has so far been available for adopters. The organisation and financing of substitution care will be changed and services will be transformed into replacement care and after-care services. As a result of the changes, ex-ante controls, i.e. licences, and ex-post controls, which are carried out as supervision, are concentrated in the Social Insurance Board. As a result, we get a comprehensive overview of service providers across Estonia, including regional specificities and needs. The supervision of all social services at the Social Insurance Board ensures that a common approach and similar principles are guaranteed, instead of current practice and 15 different quality supervision, and that competence and continuity develop within a single institution. There is also an increase in the role of advisory supervision, including the competence of counseling. There is an opportunity to set priorities for monitoring, focus on critical issues and provide input to other areas, including legislation. In addition, the draft establishes common quality principles for all social services in order to ensure better delivery of the service, so that it is human-centred and more meaningful, and to provide clarity, i.e. a clear basis for meaningful supervision. The social service provider shall not be obliged to apply any specific methodology but shall be guided by the following quality principles: personal orientation, the capable nature of the service, performance orientation, needs-based approach, holistic approach, protection of individual rights, inclusion, employee competence and ethics, and the quality of organisation's organisation and management. The changes will improve the quality of statistics collected on assistance to people in need, providing comprehensive and coherent information that can be used to plan services and monitor trends in the social protection field. Compared to the current regulation, there are additional data on the provision of social services, essential social assistance and other assistance organised by local authorities, the organisation of adoptions and custody, and the need-based social benefits to be paid. As I mentioned at the beginning, the second important block of changes concerns the reorganisation of replacement maintenance and the transfer of this service to the local government. The first basis of all these changes is certainly the knowledge that the child's best growing environment is a family. However, in a situation where a child cannot grow up in his or her own biological family, he or she must be provided with appropriate substitute care outside his or her own family. When considering alternative care options, family-based solutions should be preferred according to the child's best interests. What changes will this bill make? First, replacement and aftercare are distinguished into two separate services. This change is important because it provides adults with a service suitable for their age and needs, which supports the start of independent life. At present, an adult can only receive support if he or she continues his or her studies and is in a substitute home service for children. Secondly, equal treatment is ensured for all young learners who have been in substitution care. At present, there is a situation where only young adults in replacement home services are supported when they are studying, and not young people in families. As a result of the changes, the possibility of placing children in substitution care is added, either periodically or temporarily, with the consent of the parent. This will allow periodic care for children with severe and deep disabilities with a high need for care, whose care at home cannot be maintained at any time, or temporary care for up to 90 days for social reasons, in order to provide additional support to the family, which would still allow the child to grow in his or her biological family in the future. What, then, will be the future arrangement for substitution care? Replacement care is provided in three ways. The primary choice for placement must be the care family. The service is provided in the care family and in the living quarters of the care family or local government for up to four children in the same family. Another option is the provision of a family home, i.e. a service in family houses with between one and three family parents. Today, these are substitute homes, and up to eight children live in families. The third option is a replacement home, which we may know the most. The provision of services takes place in the current replacement homes with shifts of work, there are no family parents, and there are up to eight children living in the family. Follow-up services are provided on a case-by-case basis according to the needs of young people and follow-up services consist of providing accommodation, covering personal expenses of at least EUR 240 per month, needs-based support services and needs-based support. Now the budget. The replacement and after-care service is organised by the local government and the services are financed from the local government budget. Through the Support Fund, local authorities will be transferred to their current replacement home budget, plus a survivor's allowance and a child's allowance for family care. The total amount will be €16.7 million next year. In addition, the person's own contribution may include maintenance assistance, maintenance, survivor's pension, disability allowance. The state will use incentive factor-based funding to encourage children to be placed in care families in particular. Financial support for all children in substitution care will be placed on an equal footing. The share of the child's personal costs in the price of the service must be at least EUR 240 per month. Legal changes also ensure equal treatment for all disabled children in substitution care and allow them to pay the disabled child's allowance. That is not the case at the moment. If four children are cared for, the parent of the care family is entitled to receive support from the local government at the minimum wage established by the Government of the Republic. The allowance is paid in proportion to the number of children in the care family for a smaller number of children. As has been said, since the funding of local authorities favours care families and giving and directing children to care families, it is possible to use the money that is being released or, let's say, the money beyond the norm for better services or for other forms of replacement care. The Social Insurance Institution and the National Institute for Health Development will undertake the following national tasks in relation to substitution care: They issue licences as well as maintain national supervision, guidance and training of substitute care providers and provision of support services. I would stress this last one very much because it takes away the responsibility of local authorities to look for, train and prepare their parents themselves. In order to increase family-based care, find suitable families for children and harmonise the quality of services, the Social Insurance Board takes over from local authorities both the recruitment of care families and the assessment of their suitability. As a whole new activity, a nationwide family register will be launched. As has been said, it is similar to the current register of adopters. In order to carry out all these activities, more than 28 jobs will be taken from rural governments, which will be covered by EUR 568000. Moreover, thanks to the ESF measures, it is now possible to use this money also in the transition process and to launch this new system, so that it is also favourable to make these changes in time. It is a relatively large law, but I believe it is also a very necessary law for children who are left without parental care to receive maximum assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U199	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The draft law states that a replacement home grower must be of an adult age, have at least one year's experience in working with children, have at least secondary education and have completed further training. Recently, the Association of Workers of the Estonian Replacement Home has sent us a position in which they say that, in view of the child's interest and often difficult condition, which is due to his previous experience in life, the worker in the area must have a higher education. They propose that the educator should have either social work, pedagogical or other close higher education. How do you justify that the draft does, however, only include a requirement for secondary education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U201	This is evidently based in many ways on practices and opportunities that exist. There are quite a lot of employees in the education area and they are currently largely not in higher education. But surely this idea deserves to be considered, perhaps we really need to move forward at the level of education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U202	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U203	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I have one simple question first. You said that 28 jobs will be taken, which will now be freed from rural governments. Where are these places going to be? Does this mean that people should move to Tallinn? What does that mean for people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U204	Thank you. Just as these jobs are now located across Estonia, and just as the Social Insurance Board exists in all counties, so it will continue to be. At the same time, we have child protection units in four regions and the core is located there. But people get help from all over Estonia. And since the Social Insurance Board's representations, as I said, are located all over Estonia, there is no need to concentrate jobs in Tallinn. On the contrary, they must still be close to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U205	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U206	Mr President! Madam Minister! This draft law actually introduces a number of new concepts in the whole area. Are they, and how much have they been made clear to those who do the actual work? Are we not going to have such misunderstandings or misconceptions because communication or introduction has been incomplete, or is there just a little time left?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U207	First of all, I must point out that these concepts are not predominantly new or foreign. For several years, the word'replacement home' has been used instead of 'family care', as well as 'family care' and 'family care'. These terms have been used for some time, although in the language of the people there may still be a 'child' home' and other forms are less known. With this explanation, information and public education in this area, I dare say, the Department of Children and Families of the Ministry of Social Affairs has been very effective. It has also been done by non-profit organisations involved in this area. We have a number of very good non-profit organisations who are very closely involved in both adoption and family care. They have done a very good job, and this will increase awareness. In the preparation of this draft, there has been a great deal of cooperation with the whole sector, with local authorities, with these non-profit organisations, and very much explained, discussed and negotiated. While this draft law has now been linked to the fact that there will be a transition from rural governments to local governments, it is based on a Green Paper, which has been prepared for years before, and all principles have been very well negotiated there. So in this sense, this law is now fitting into a pretty good place in time. Of course, since rural governments are shutting down and the local authorities are going to have new tasks, this naturally requires an effort from all parties involved. However, as has been said, some of the tasks will again leave the local government and be transferred to the Social Insurance Board. I believe and hope there is a balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U208	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Social Affairs Committee waitress is Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U209	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft presented by the Minister on 18 September. In the Commission, we were introduced by the Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva, the Minister for Welfare of the Ministry of Social Affairs Maarja Krais-Leosk, and by Signe Riisalo, Head of Child Welfare Policy from the Children's and Families Department. Four issues were broadly at the heart of our debate. Firstly, according to this draft, a child can only be assigned to a replacement care service if the parent has given his or her consent. Of course, this raised questions in the Members of the Commission. For example, what if the child's life and safety are at risk, but the parent does not agree to direct the child to a substitute care service? We received an answer that then children's protection will intervene, and the family law will give the court the right to decide on the custody of a specific child's parent. Then we discussed a specific amount, EUR 240, which was called money for personal expenses for each child. We at first had an understanding in the Commission that this money was intended for children's so-called pocket money, for their children's personal expenses. This is not the case, of course. It's just a minimum amount that has to be allocated to one child. It covers the child's food, clothing, education and everything he or she needs personally. And if there is a need, and so will be decided, the money can also pay the child's allowance. We also talked about the tasks that remain with the state, the Social Insurance Board, and which go to the local government. This is what the Minister has been talking about for a long time, and I am not going to go over these things. The issue of the development of the S.T.A.R.R.R.P.R.P.P.R. was raised as a separate subject. This will be accompanied, as you've heard, by a record of care families. We were assured that, by the time this law came into force, developments would certainly be completed, as such a register has already been drawn up for adopters. The Commission took the following decisions: to put this draft law on today's agenda and propose that the first reading be closed. We expect amendments to this bill within 10 working days, i.e. by 5.15 p.m. on 11 October. The committee decided to appoint me waitress. All decisions were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U210	The questions to the Commission's waitress will not be asked, because no one will ask. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The first reading of Bill 489 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U211	We have already reached the first reading of the draft law approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, initiating waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U212	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you with the draft law approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes. The draft law approving amendments to the International Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes is before you because our law on external relations provides: these international agreements, which have been ratified by the Riigikogu, must also come to the Riigikogu for amendment. This amendment is intended to approve, on behalf of Estonia, the amendments developed and approved by the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail (OTIF) in Bern on 30 September 2015. The purpose of the amendments is to approve the management of the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail and to update the functioning of the Convention on International Carriage by Rail. In particular, this organisation includes a single system of legal provisions concerning the international carriage of passengers, luggage and goods by rail. Its common rules apply not only to international rail transport but also to related road and water transport. As of 1 September 2016, 49 Member States of the Organisation belong to three continents (Europe, North Africa and Central Asia), one associated member, Jordan, and one regional economic integration organisation, namely the European Union. Therefore, the members of the organisation are all those countries of the European Union that have railways. The amendments to the Convention and its annexes are due to the need to modernise management and to provide linguistic clarifications, which means that the draft does not have any significant impact on international rail transport as such. But the organization is to be reformed and made more effective as an organisation. For example, while until now the Member States of the Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail had to pay a membership fee in the form of a two-part advance payment, this can now be done at the same time. The Convention also clarified the concept of "holder', which creates additional legal clarity in a situation where there is a need for the seizure of rolling stock in a country other than the country in which the holder is established. This is why it is important that the term 'holder' is defined in more detail. This will help prevent a number of legal and administrative interpretations in the future. Implementation of the Act does not require any additional costs or benefits. The changes made do not affect the amount of the membership fee to be paid to OTIF. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U213	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Any questions? No, it's not. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Deniss Borodich. Please, Ambassador Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U214	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft at its meeting on 12 September. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, was invited to give the same comprehensive overview as he did today. The members of the Commission did not have any further questions, nor did they have any discussion. The Commission decided (consensually) to take the following decisions: Firstly, to put this draft on the agenda of 27 September, which is today. Secondly, propose that the first reading be completed. The third decision was that the deadline for amendments should be set at 5 p.m. on 4 October. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U215	Questions for the rapporteur of the Economic Commission. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U216	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a question of self-esteem. The OTIF shall be the subject of a panel of technical experts. What's that all about? Does it work there all the time, or is it called if necessary? How does this Commission work? It is a committee of fundamental importance, as I read here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U217	Yes, it is a committee of fundamental importance and the sessions are regular. Sometimes additional circumstances also require an emergency meeting. So this is a very serious organ.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U218	Thank you, Deniss Borodich! I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. First reading of Bill 474 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 4 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U219	The following is the first reading of the draft law amending the arms law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 494. The originators' waitress is Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U220	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I bring before you a draft law amending the law on weapons and related amendments to other laws. In addition to the Arms Act, the draft amends the State Tax Act, the Prison Act, the Law on Orders and the Law on Strategic Goods. The amendments are scheduled to enter into force on 1 January 2018. In the following, I will explain in more detail the amendments proposed by the draft. Firstly, greater consideration of the security situation when granting a weapons permit. According to the draft, the acquisition of a weapon or the granting of a permit for a weapon to a person suspected of being a threat to national security is excluded. If he or she has previously been granted a weapons permit, the Police and Border Guard Board shall have the right to suspend or revoke it for good reason. I'll explain. If a person has not committed a specific anti-government offence, but a background check carried out by security authorities reveals the circumstances in which that person may be expected to commit such crimes, he shall be refused a weapons permit. Another important change concerns the issue of a weapons or acquisition permit for an alien. According to the bill, an alien residing in Estonia on the basis of a residence permit or right of residence must apply for a weapons permit under the same conditions as Estonian citizens, including an examination. This is also the case if he has been issued a weapons permit in another country. There was no such requirement so far in the case of a weapons permit issued in the European Union. A foreigner must now also meet exactly the health requirements and not have valid sanctions. The possible threat to Estonia's security must also be ruled out. To this end, it will also be possible to include the Defence Police Department in the arms permit process, which will carry out a background check on the person applying for the weapons permit for security reasons. Background checks are necessary and mandatory in order to comply with this provision of the Bill, according to which an alien who is not a citizen of a Member State of the European Union will be issued with an Estonian weapons permit if there is no doubt about him/her that he/she might endanger the security or security of the Republic of Estonia. The third major amendment relates to the offences committed as a basis for refusing to issue a weapons permit. The draft amends the provisions of the current Arms Act concerning the granting of an acquisition or weapons permit, the exchange of weapons permit and the transfer of weapons permit, as well as the suspension and revocation of the acquisition or weapons permit on the grounds of the person's impunity. The draft provides for the possibility that the PBGB has the discretion to refuse authorisation to a person who has been repeatedly punished for committing an offence, i.e. any wrongdoing or offence, and whose criminal records have not been erased. The draft does not provide for the issue of a permit, i.e. the PBGB does not have discretion in cases where a person has been punished for a crime related to life or health, a firearm or ammunition, or for a criminal offence committed or threatened with a weapon, or for violation of a number of provisions of the Penal Code, such as the disclosure of state secrets and classified foreign information, an attack on the life and health of a high public official or an internationally protected person and many others. In addition to the abovementioned formations, there shall be no discretion or issue of a weapons permit where a person has been convicted of a breach of the requirements laid down in the legislation governing the acquisition, custody, carriage, or use of a substantial part of a firearm or ammunition in the course of a misdemeanour procedure or where the person is suspected or accused of a criminal offence against life or health, of a firearm or ammunition, or of a criminal offence committed or threatened with a weapon. In the case of those offences, once the person's sentence has expired, he or she shall have the right to reapply for a weapons permit. Obligation to state the reasons for applying for a weapons permit. In future, the State will assess more closely the circumstances surrounding the acquisition of the weapon to ensure the security and public order of the state and to ensure that the weapons do not fall into the hands of people who cannot handle them legally. I'll explain. One of the reasons for introducing this provision is Article 5 of the European Arms Directive, which states that Member States are only allowing the acquisition and possession of firearms by people who have good reason for doing so and who also meet other requirements of both physical and mental health and who are not likely to endanger themselves, public order or public security. The current arms law does not explicitly express this principle, and it is therefore appropriate to clarify the amendments to the text of the law in order to avoid legal disputes as to whether or not the PBGB has the right to request an explanation from the person as to the acquisition of the weapon. In Estonia, you can acquire, own and possess weapons for hunting, shooting sports, self- and property protection and collection. Therefore, when applying for a weapons permit, it is necessary to state the reasons for the purpose and the type of firearm the person needs. Reasons for extending the application may vary: gun caliber-based, gun size and characteristics-based, weapon shape or use-based, but also based on the place of residence, occupation or other circumstances. The author of the bill shares the conviction that an informed person who acquires a firearm can generally explain such a need briefly to the police. Taking a weapons permit exam. The draft provides that an acquisition or weapons permit may be issued to a person who has passed an examination of the requirements of the legislation governing the handling of weapons. The draft excludes first aid from the topics of the theoretical examination, as the amendments require the submission of a document certifying the completion of first aid training when applying for a weapons permit. Verification of the theoretical knowledge of first aid is replaced by an obligation to complete first aid training, as weapons owners must also have the practical skills to provide first aid. The draft also clarifies the language issue of the weapons examination. The weapons examination is passed in Estonian. In addition, it provides for the possibility to pass the theoretical examination using an interpreter in another language if the person does not speak the Estonian language at an adequate level. In such a case, the costs associated with the involvement of an interpreter shall be borne by the person conducting the theoretical knowledge examination. According to the draft, the practical part of the weapons examination, i.e. the attempt on the handling of firearms and shooting skills, must be carried out in Estonian and without the help of an interpreter. To explain so much, relatively harmonised Estonian-language commands are used in Estonia when weapons are being fired in the shooting range, in the weapons examination attempt, in the shooting and hunting of firearms. If a foreigner living permanently in Estonia stays in the shooting range with other shooters but does not sufficiently understand the orders given by the tour, he may pose a significant risk to himself, to other shooters and also to bystanders. There are also rules for the use of shooting ranges in Estonian, which are mandatory for operators. It is therefore necessary that the applicant for a weapons permit and the performer of the firearms handling and shooting skills test have a sufficient understanding of the safety rules, the rules of operation and the instructions given in Estonian at the shootings. In addition, it is certainly worth noting that the objectivity of carrying out the weapons examination and the potential risks associated with it will be ensured in an operational manner after the adoption of amendments to the Weapons Act. The respective procedures shall be established by the Minister of the Interior. The following amendment: if more than eight firearms have been acquired for security purposes, the provisions on collection shall apply. This means that persons wishing to possess more than eight firearms for security purposes must apply for and hold a collection permit. And I'm sure there's gotta be an armory to store a weapon collection like this. An important change relates to an electronic weapons permit. The draft creates an option, not an obligation, to apply for an electronic weapons permit that saves 1600 PBGB hours per year. I would like to point out that the draft introduces a possibility for the future, which is not an obligation to have an electronic weapons permit, i.e. the possibility of issuing a paper permit. However, if an individual has been granted an electronic weapons permit, he must monitor the expiry date of the permit. Although the PBA still has the capacity to inform the person of the expiry of the permit by e-mail or SMS, some gun owners have not opened this service on the eesti.ee portal. However, opening up such services is certainly a very effective way of communicating between people and the state. A significant change is also related to the storage of the quantity of permitted rounds in sporting firearms, specifically. According to the current Weapons Act, a natural person can deposit up to 1000 rounds per sporting gun. The draft does not change the number of permitted rounds per sporting gun, but sets a limit for cases where, for example, a person has several sporting firearms. For example, gun athletes with multiple weapons can purchase ammunition from a store at once, which is unreasonable in terms of storage at home and cannot be used for training within a reasonable time. Therefore, a maximum of 5000 rounds for all sports firearms belonging to a person is laid down. In this respect, it is important to note that top athletes and other athletes, who can understandably spend more bullets than the limit in training, can also store ammunition in training bases that meet the requirements for legal persons. And the last major change concerns the regulation of firearms that are unarmed. The regulation of the technical requirements for the issue of a document certifying the deactivation of a firearm and the deactivation of a weapon shall be aligned with the draft in accordance with the uniform provisions in force in the European Union. The corresponding regulation of the European Union provides that firearms are to be deactivated by public or private entities or persons who are authorised in accordance with national law, such as gunmakers in Estonia. Member States shall designate a competent authority responsible for verifying that the firearm has been deactivated in accordance with the technical specifications set out in the Regulation. If all comply with the established technical specifications, the control body shall issue the owner of the firearm with a certificate of deactivation. According to the bill, firearms, as I said, will be deactivated by a weapons master who has been issued by the PBA. All deactivated weapons shall be recorded in the service and civil weapons registers in order to have a complete overview of the firearms to be handled, operated and deactivated. The obligation to keep records of evidence of non-destructiveness issued is also due to that European Union Regulation. In the case of an unarmed weapon, any change in the ownership of the weapon shall be recorded so that the PBA knows at any time who owns the unarmed weapon. The owner of an un shot weapon shall be accompanied by an obligation to notify the PBA of its status as owner of the un shot weapon or of the transfer of such weapon. That's all for short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U221	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U222	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, thank you for your thorough explanations. But please, let's talk about this exam again, because, as I understand it, it is precisely the examination procedure that has attracted more attention to this bill and has given rise to different ideas. Am I right to understand that the situation is now a little harsh for those who have obtained a permit elsewhere, that they must at least take an internship exam in Estonian and understand the commands in Estonian? Or how it was before, do they not need to understand these Estonian commands now? I have not quite understood whether the draft will liberalise this procedure for applicants for a weapons permit or, rather, tighten it up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U223	Thank you. I'm gonna go back in time. During the preparation of this draft, I also gave orders to conduct an audit at the Police and Border Guard Board on the issue of weapons permits. This led to many problems, including the use of the language of the weapons test. For example, it could often be that a questionnaire was issued in another language at the time of the weapons examination, and it was not guaranteed that the person would understand these commands in Estonian. If it was easier to communicate, it could be done in another language. It is precisely because of safety that this bill provides for two things. First of all, in the case of a theory exam, we see the possibility that a person may do so in another language if he or she has an interpreter. With the implementing act, we also intend to regulate the details of the use of such an interpreter. For example, an interpreter can also be used when applying for driving licences, but it must be a certified interpreter of the Road Administration. Why do we have the opportunity to take a theory exam in another language? Because the theory is much more extensive than practice. The theory also includes laws, such as the details of weapons storage arising from the law, and it is important here that a person really understands his or her obligations to the state by receiving the help of an interpreter with his or her expenses and letters, if necessary. As far as practical skills are concerned, it is also necessary for a person to understand the commands that may be given to him in some situation, such as the street, the shooting range, the exercise site. In such a situation, since the time for giving these commands and responding to these commands must be minimal, it is necessary, in the case of practical weapons management skills, that the person makes all these commands clear to himself in Estonian as well. So further regulation of this matter makes it somewhat more difficult for some people to apply for a weapon. I'm gonna get one more thing I think I missed out on here. What's important is that in the future, those who already have a gun need to do a five-year shootout at the PBA. This, too, is also due to the analysis of the PBGB. Often, when a weapon is acquired to protect even home or safety, a person can forget the most basic things about his or her weapon for a period of five years. Not to mention that it is worth cleaning from time to time, but it can also be forgotten, for example, how the safety comes down, how to reload it, etc. In practice, recalling the characteristics and possibilities of a weapon when it must be used to protect its own safety or the safety of its family may lead to the death of a criminal. So running this shooting exercise at least every five years is the minimum that the state can require of a person. Although, let's just say, a good gun owner definitely goes more often in shooting exercises.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U224	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm a little confused about the requirement to justify the acquisition of a weapon. If so far it has been the case that certain requirements need to be met, starting from the fact that a person is not criminally punished and ending with an examination, then now it must also be justified. How is this justification objectively assessed? Is it going to depend on who's a better-talked man or who's going to be more sympathetic to an official?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U226	Thank you. First of all, I would preconceived that any official's decision, whether he agrees with this justification or refuses to grant a permit for security reasons, for example, must be justified to such an extent that this justification would also correspond to the level of justification of the administrative court. Perhaps, in fact, no official can make a decision as he sees fit. It must be justified why, for example, it does not issue a weapons permit to one person or another. As I said earlier, there are actually four reasons for acquiring weapons in Estonia. They will not be amended by this bill. The weapon is either for hunting, shooting, defending or collecting your property. These are the reasons that a person must state. There may simply be a need to explain to a person whether he has chosen the right weapon, whether, for example, the caliber chosen to protect himself or the property or any other properties needed, or whether he could choose another weapon. Perhaps any conversation with a police officer about the purpose of acquiring a weapon will lead to the best decisions rather than to a brake on the number of gunholders. I see no reason why this reason for acquiring a weapon should be a long essay, even though I have been shown such. From time to time, they have been presented and have given attention to whether these people still need a weapon or whether there is a need for some other control. So I would like to emphasise once again that, on the one hand, this requirement stems from the European Arms Directive, but, on the other hand, there are two levels. Firstly, it is necessary to define the purpose for which a person wants a weapon and, secondly, to assess whether the weapon sought is proportionate to that objective. Such are the nuances of the obligation to justify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U227	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, why don't you give us some figures on how many crimes are committed in Estonia? How many of them are armed crimes? How many of them, in turn, are legally armed? And how many of these crimes have been committed by legitimate gun owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U228	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U229	Thank you. That is a good question, because there is always debate as to whether possession of a weapon or the possibility of possession of a weapon in the country will increase the number of crimes committed with weapons or not. I think there's a lot of room for a lot of research, but some numbers I can get you. In view of the fact that crime in Estonia is particularly serious, such as killings and murders, it is more appropriate to stretch this overview a little longer. In the last six years and eight months, from the beginning of 2010 to September 2017, 124 serious crimes have been committed using firearms. In half of these cases, there has been an unregistered weapon and in the other half a registered weapon. And during that time, there have been 45 murders or attempted murders and 17 murders or attempted murders. In these cases too, we are talking about a registered firearm and on the other hand an unregistered firearm. This year, 12 crimes have been committed with a firearm: five with a registered firearm and seven with a non-registered firearm. But, especially recently, there is concern about the increase in the number of suicides, and it can be said that they are often registered firearms. Simply numbers: In 11 months of 2015, 15 people committed suicide with a firearm, 10 people in 2016, but in eight months of this year this unfortunate number has increased to 18.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U230	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I may have missed it in the bill and in the explanatory memorandum, but I ask if the amendment to the law also concerns rebuilt historic firearms. I am referring mostly to the weapons of World War I and World War II, including automatics, machine guns and machine guns, which are only rebuilt to fire imitation ammunition, or blanks. Such weapons are used by our war history clubs to reproduce historical war scenes, used in movies and theatre performances. How does this legislative amendment affect these weapons?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U232	Thank you. The deactivation requirements, which are also the result of the relevant EU legislation, do not directly concern these weapons. These weapons are actually registered in the same way as any weapon in the Police and Border Guard Board. Just for information, there are certain requirements. If, for example, they are to be taken to an imitated battlefield used by war history clubs, the Police and Border Guard Board will be asked for permission. But the deactivation requirements do not directly affect them, they are registered as weapons. And now, if I'm not mistaken for a year, I don't think I have to register guns from 1890, that is, well before World War I.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U233	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U234	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You said nicely, among other things, in briefings this day, among other things, that the safety of the Estonian people has never been as great as it is today. Now I read here on page 4 of the explanatory memorandum, which describes the purpose of the law that the security situation has deteriorated significantly since the entry into force of the Weapons Act, or year 2001. Good Andres, what did you mean during the day? And if you can, tell me what this explanatory statement means here. These are obviously different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U235	Thank you. These are different things. When we're talking about security, we're talking about people's daily safety on the street and at home. I am always pleased to rely on the statistics of recent years, which shows that the number of most serious crimes has fallen dramatically. As a good example, in 1994, when we had nearly 400 murders and murders a year, there were less than 40 of them last year. This year it's going to be even smaller, probably between 20 and 30, but I'm not going to predict it's not grateful. If we're talking about a security situation, we're talking about what's going on around us. And we certainly need to step up security controls. There's a lot of stuff about not getting into a weapon apparently, on the basis of a criminal record, for proper people who may have some sort of ulterior motive. For this purpose, the Special Service, or the Defence Police Department, is given the authority to check the background for the first time, which was not previously available. The police will contact the police, if they see anything suspicious, who are entitled to monitor applicants for weapons permits. This certainly concerns foreigners because it is a duty to review whether they are a threat to our security. So, unfortunately, these two things go hand in hand in today's world: global security threats around us have increased and internal security has decreased. You shouldn't take into account what I said before, when I brought in those sad numbers that show the increase in suicide rates. This is not directly relevant to internal security, but it still shows certain trends in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U236	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U237	Thank you. Deactivated weapons under this directive of the European Union and the new rules that will be put in place by us are indeed unarmed. They are so shaken that it is almost impossible to make them ready for firing. In this respect, I wonder why these basically decorative items must be regulated and registered so harshly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U238	Thank you. There is both a national and an external dimension here. First of all, let us recall the unfortunate events that have taken place here over a few years, in which well-activated weapons from the Defence Forces were also activated. It's always possible to rearrange a weapon, it's gonna get some parts from it. So in that sense, you are right that this directive provides for very effective deactivation, but it is still possible to take advantage of certain parts of the weapon. Therefore, there must be an overview of which weapons are deactivated and in whose hands they are. If a weapon activated with any parts of that weapon comes up on the horizon again, then you have to rewind and look at the story of the rebirth of that weapon. And the reason why this is so seriously on the agenda in Europe is that the terrorist acts in France a few years ago were carried out with deactivated weapons that were reactivated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U239	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U240	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. That's what I had to ask you when I listened to that. After all, possession of weapons is quite well regulated and will be even better regulated. Is it possible to estimate how many in Estonia, however, pass through this sieve? How many, for example, own weapons illegally and do not intend to comply with all these rules? Is there any such information?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U241	Thank you. It is clear that no one can say exactly the number of weapons in the hands of a criminal world. If we knew the exact number, we'd take those weapons out of their hands. I pointed out earlier that over a few years there have been over 140 serious crimes involving weapons, and in half of these cases this weapon has been illegal. Definitely a criminal, if he wants to get a gun, somehow gets one. The Police and Border Guard Board, and in particular the Defence Police, which also deals with illicit weapons, ammunition and explosives, occasionally emerges with new criminal cases involving the withdrawal of dozens and dozens of weapons. It is very difficult to appreciate, but I think there is definitely some kind of turnover of illegal weapons in Estonia. Fortunately, the statistics show that the number of gun crimes is decreasing, which in turn shows that in recent years the black market has been able to pick up weapons. However, it must be taken into account that we live in Europe with free movement, which means that weapons can slip us across the Schengen border, for example. But the statistics show that the number of weapons is decreasing because the crimes they committed are considerably less than years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U242	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U243	Mr President, Minister, thank you very much. Only recently, the honourable Chancellor of Justice stood on this very floor and reminded us that in this Chamber, plans for development are constantly whistled. And I see that this 14-page gun law doesn't have a plan of development either, because it's urgent. The last arms law was passed on 13 June 16 years ago. Has it really not been enough in this 16 year or shorter period? Or is this a new practice, to which the Chancellor of Justice also refers, that there is no need to draw up such plans?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U244	Thank you for your question. There are two things. First of all, the basic postulates and the basic construction of the Arms Act remain the same. We do not change the principles of possession, handling or procurement in depth. The second thing is that, in this case, we are talking about bringing our laws into line with European Union documents. We are talking about the Arms Directive and the European Union Regulation, which also regulates the deactivation of weapons, which is the main focus. Some nuances, such as the lack of weapons for security reasons, result from the rapid change in the world around us. But I can reassure you and tell you that the Ministry of the Interior's work plan includes the handling of the arms law and analysis of the perspective for about four years. This process is underway. Then we decide whether or not we need a whole new text after a while, which definitely requires a VTK.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U245	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Uno Kaskpeit, Vice-President of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U246	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take a look at what happened in the Justice Committee. For the first time, this bill was on the Committee on Legal Affairs on Monday, 18 September. Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I, Hanno Pevkur, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere, took part in the meeting. Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Ramon Loik, Legal Adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Marju Aibas, and Adviser to Lemme Berkis, were invited. The same draft amendment to the arms law was discussed in 494. Andres Anvelt gave us an overview of the changes. I am not going to repeat these, because the Minister has also talked about these changes in depth here. Jaanus Karilaid pointed out that a person would receive a permit to carry a weapon if his request was sufficiently substantiated. According to Marju Aibasti, the applicant for a weapons permit still has to justify his wish, although it is not explicitly stated in the current law. Valdo Randpere asked to explain how this bill affects those persons who have a weapons permit but wish to extend it. The Minister explained that a digital weapons permit solution would be introduced. Practical tests must also be carried out in order to extend the permit. According to the Minister, the weapon is a source of increased threat. Mr. Randpere believes that the current arms law also works. Why do you have to retake the practical test part when you extend your weapons permit? He brought a parallel with the extension of driving licences, saying that the car is also a source of greater danger, but a new driving test is not required for the extension of licences. According to the Minister, one must be sure that the person who receives the permit can handle the weapon. According to Mr Vitsut, draft 494 is highly controversial and its explanatory statement contains inaccuracies. There are also many things in the draft that he does not agree with. For example, when it is said that the adoption of the draft is urgent because of the European Union's regulations. Urve Tiidus wanted to know the current trend in applying for weapons permits. Lemme Berkis said that there are about 1,000 new applicants for weapons permits each year. Külliiki Hatter wanted to find out how it is ensured that an applicant for a weapons permit, not an interpreter, will pass the test on the exam through an interpreter. According to the Minister, the examiner must ensure that the interpreter cannot pass the exam instead of the applicant. According to Hanno Pevkur, the practical and theoretical part of the weapons examination should take place in Estonian. He added that in other countries the corresponding examination is in the national language. To have a gun, you have to know what's in the law, and you have to know how to use a gun. The Minister replied that to some extent this was a question of political choices. According to Valdo Randpere, however, the weapons test should be conducted in Estonian. The president of the committee put the following proposals to the vote: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 27 September 2017 (consensus), to appoint me rapporteur, Mr Kaskpeiti (consensus), and to set the deadline for the amendments at 6 p.m. on 18 October (consensus). And fourthly, it was proposed that the draft be rejected at the request of the Commission. There were six members of the Commission: Uno Kaskpeit, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Hanno Pevkur, Valdo Randpere, Urve Tiidus and Toomas Vitsut. Four opposed: Raivo Aeg, Jaanus Karilaid, Toomas Paur and Liisa Oviir. But, oh, wonder, at the end of the week, a new agenda for the Legal Affairs Committee appeared on the computer. By 25 September, by this Monday, 494 had been put back on the agenda. Of course, there was tension in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and the atmosphere was very hot. The Socialist ranks had grown, almost all the members of the Commission were present. Unfortunately, Mr Vitsut was not from the Centre Party, he was replaced by an alternate. The president, Mr Karilaid, proposed to amend the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs of 18 September to reject the draft at first reading and proposed that the Commission could support the completion of the draft at first reading. Mr Pevkur felt that the decision in question should not be changed. Mr Karilaid pointed out that, within the deadline for submitting amendments, substantive and high-quality amendments could be tabled on the draft. It justified the amendment of the decision by the fact that the Commission had had the opportunity to hold political consultations in the meantime and to obtain further arguments. Mr Randpere expressed the view that it would be useful to propose amendments if decisions were to be re-voted. According to him, it reduces faith in the democratic decision-making process. Mr Pevkur pointed out that the Committee on Legal Affairs had proposed to reject the draft at first reading, which means that no deadline would be set for the submission of amendments. There should be no second reading, the Government of the Republic can take time off and, if necessary, re-submit the draft and complete it. Külliik's Hatter's opinion was that the coalition was repairing the accident at work. Mr Karilaid proposed to vote on the proposal to close the first reading of draft 494. This time too, six members supported the proposal: Jaanus Karilaid, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Heljo Pikhof, Märt Sults and Hardi Volmer. Five members opposed: Uno Kaskpeit, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Hanno Pevkur, Valdo Randpere and Meelis Mälberg. Consequently, the Commission proposes to close the first reading of the draft. The remaining decisions of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the draft taken on 18 September 2017 shall remain valid. It seems to me that this law is a difficult move before the elections as a political election advertisement. This is what Mrs Pevkur said yesterday about one of the drafts tabled by our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U247	Wait a minute, Uno Kaskpeit! The Commission's rapporteur also has the right to ask questions and they must be answered. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U248	Mr President, the waitress. I want to talk about this heightened source of danger. In the Commission, I understand, it was discussed. Really, a car or some other motor vehicle may have killed 56 people last year, but much less because of a bullet. And when the permit starts to expire, one time you have to take the exams, the other time you don't. Was there also a debate on the fact that both are dangerous things - cars and weapons - so that these times can be harmonised?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U249	As I said, one of our members had a remark that driving licences could be exchanged without having to take a practical driving test. There was no response.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U250	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U251	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! You just said that when we came to you, "Oh, surprise." Can you describe in beautiful Estonian how big this surprise you had? 'Oh' isn't enough extension. Was that surprise like when you first got married, or like when you found out Santa didn't exist? What was your "oh surprise" like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U252	It was a common surprise when I saw the same bill being back on the agenda next Monday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U253	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was interesting to listen to this presentation. In the meantime, it seemed to me that you saw this bill for the first time, counting down. I am certainly amazed that Mrs Pevkur is also able to participate in the legislative process. But why don't you describe in your own words what the Commission's mind was really like? In addition to the results of the vote, you are also conveying the 'consciousness' character of the Commission. What kind of emotions were there? And what were the main points that the Minister pointed out as a positive side, and what was the negative side for which the vote was held? Perhaps you will describe the Commission's internal debate in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U255	I don't know how to point out this positive side of the Minister. In fact, as an old gun carrier and arms handler, this bill has been done over and over in a hurry. I don't see any need to re-enact this attempt. The driver should then also be required to take a driving test in order to extend the licence. It was just mentioned here that a car has a lot more accidents than officially registered weapons. So, actually, there's this moment inside that the officer is going to decide whether you really need a gun or not, regardless of what you've been doing in life. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U256	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. You mentioned that the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs re-convened the committee and said that further consultations had revealed new arguments as to why the draft law had to be re-elected. So what were these additional arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U258	I can't tell you because Mr. Vitsuti wasn't in the hearing. Perhaps he had argued in favour of rejecting this draft on the first occasion. I don't know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U259	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U260	Thank you, good waitress! You replied to a colleague that 'our Member'. As far as I know, there is a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Did you mean someone else, or did you talk about yourself in a different form? Could you be more specific?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U261	What did I say that about? For the person on the Committee on Legal Affairs, I said 'our Member'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U262	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U263	Tell me something like that, please. I mean, that motive was Vitsu. That's a very interesting question. Was there anyone else in place of Vitsut, and was it someone else who was different from Vitsut? And under what circumstances did Vitsu disappear, and that someone else came? It's a very suspicious story from all over the place. Explain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U264	It's hard to explain because Vitsuti wasn't there. Vitsut had his position at the first session, which I read here. There was another member in his place, and I'm indebted to the answer right now. This gentleman didn't have an aha, you see, right here he sits at all. All he did was raise his hand, and that was it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U265	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U266	Thank you, Mr Co-Rapporteur of the Commission. I also come to the question that you expressed yourself here with sentences such as 'oh miracle' and 'unfortunately Mr. Vitsutit was not present'. How does this reflect the Commission's position? I understand that this kind of political discussion is unfortunately for someone, but for someone's luck. You, as a Commission waitress, said here that 'unfortunately there wasn't there'. Why did you build this Commission report in this way, making very clear the personal moments that could remain for the speech?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U267	Because at the first sitting, Mr Vitsut also spoke very critically about this bill and voted in favour of rejecting it. And then he was suddenly replaced for some reason. It didn't feel weird to me alone, it felt weird to everyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U268	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U269	I'm gonna go to Marrand through you first. Marandi can't see where the accident is. I'll tell you where the accident is. The accident is when the composition of the Commission is being manipulated in the name of some small sluggish political momentary victory. This replacement of Vitsut was by its very nature extremely ugly and certainly contrary to the spirit of the Riigikogu. By the way, it was a really unhappy story, no matter what Marrand thinks about it. Now, the question is, just in case, I'm telling you that you said that Vitsut had his own position, but the other guy only voted. Did the other guy vote differently than Vitsu? Was it still manipulation or wasn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U270	Of course, another man voted in a completely different way than Vitsu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U271	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U272	Thank you, Mr President. I've already got it all mixed up, who voted the way they did. But I come to the point once that how do you assess, as the principal in the draft, what will in the future be the impact on the state budget of the adoption of this specific arms law? Is it positive or negative?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U273	What's the impact of the budget here? As has been said here, 1,000 guns are bought in the middle of a year, which is no impact on the state budget. This is actually an effect on the possession of our people's weapons, because we are still living in the side of a certain country where people may have more weapons in their hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U274	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U275	Chairman! Good waitress! Your groupmate has asked me several times whether I was still within the remit of a Member of the Commission. I am now asking you the same question: were you within these limits with your assessments? And the second question: did it suddenly come as a surprise that the members of the Commission were being replaced, and was it for the first time? We actually have rules of procedure that allow us to do so, and that was not the first time I knew it to be the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U276	I think I'm completely within my limits. I read the protocol. And it was really weird that one man was completely against this law at first, then he was replaced, and the substitute had a completely different opinion. If I were to be replaced, I would explain to the substitute what my point is, and he would vote the same way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U277	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U278	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My trademark is that I have my own position. And I don't understand your claim that there was an alternate who didn't have a position. I mean, if there had been no position, I would have been neutral, but I voted, so I must have a position. Where do you get the psychoanalyst's right to say I don't have a position? I say, now and in the future, also tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and the day after that, that I have a firm position on the arms law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U279	I was talking about this before they came to replace someone who had a different view when he had an alternate. If I had gone there to replace someone else, I would have gone to that person's position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U280	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U281	Thank you! Mr Co-Rapporteur, you must reflect here the debate that has taken place in the Commission. You're saying that a person was replaced, and it somehow works like he was dragged away like a violently, brought someone else, locked up, and created some huge story in the Commission. As the Commission's co-rapporteur, please explain what you think this replacement is all about. Indeed, according to the Rules of Procedure, this is a natural process. Wasn't the paperwork in order, or what was the problem with being replaced? It is perfectly legitimate for an alternate member to appear on the committee. On the other hand, your presence in such a personal key raises doubts about the meaning of the Rules of Procedure Act. How is the 'violence' of this replacement reflected in the Commission's debate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U282	What do you mean? I reported he was replaced. What I have just said in this conversation is not from the Commission's record. So if you want to, come over there and talk! [[Pointing his hand at the back door of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U283	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U284	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I didn't quite understand your answer. But the thing is, if there's an alternate who's holding another person's opinion, then the alternate doesn't have an opinion. I continue to argue that I have my own position, which develops during the debate and debate. Consequently, this view developed as well. And Mr Vitsut was not away from the Commission, not because he was replaced, but because he had other things to do at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U285	Glad to hear it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U286	There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I think it is a good time to remind you that we are discussing draft 494. It's first reading, I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Valdo Randpere Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U287	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! In itself, Uno Kaskpeit described what happened here in the big lines. I was motivated to come here today by the fact that in life we often have a choice whether we do the right thing or whether we do the right thing. Ideally, we're doing the right thing right. Sometimes we do the wrong thing wrong. Now, this bill is the kind of thing that is wrong and wrong, both in terms of procedures and content. Even if, in fact, the arms law, as we have heard from one question, has been in force for 16 years, and in practice there have been no particular problems in itself. In principle, it can be said that there has been no significant problem with this current arms law, which would require a great deal of change. But here came up with a small pretext that a direct regulation by the Commission has come from Europe. In the shadow of this, the swift and bitter fingers of the lawyers fell into a profound and quite substantive change of the law, even though the Minister tried to say otherwise. The most substantial change in this matter, which I do not like or oppose, is the relaxation of the language law. This is another example. When we were here more or less a year ago and discussed an amendment to the legal aid rules, which was happily signed by the IRL, one of his roles was quietly taken away from the Estonian language. It's the same thing right now. Before the weapons examination, only the Estonian language was able to pass the theoretical examination, but now an interpreter can also be used for this, with no limit on languages. If we bring traffic law as a parallel, it has at least been said that the exam can be in Russian or English. In the case of Russian, all categories are allowed, only category A and B examinations may be conducted in English. Now it's a free country, i.e. take what language you want in Russian or Arabic for me, find an interpreter and take a weapons test. Does this increase our country's sense of security, people's sense of security? I doubt it. The story that you need to be able to make a bang in Estonian is not very convincing. I'm afraid if a person walks around the country with a gun and the police say something to him, he's forgotten a few words about what he's got in his head for that internship exam. And, in fact, as an armed person, he is also a greater source of danger. I would still go back to taking out this election topic and Russian, even though the Russian language is not directly mentioned, and sticking to the Estonian language. That's not such a bad requirement here. As has been said, there have actually been no problems with this law in practice. The second thing is why the draft has been wrong, as I said, is what took place in the Commission. Indeed, at the first meeting of the Commission, we sat and discussed. Toomas Vitsut, who has been talked about here for a long time, had indeed worked through the law and the explanatory memorandum. He had substantive complaints and supported the rejection of this draft at first reading. Suddenly, another committee meeting came, as the outcome of the first sitting was not pleasing to the chairman of the committee or to certain members. At this Commission meeting, the same subject was re-established to change procedural decisions. And then Vitsu was gone as a rod in the water. Nobody knew where he was. There was a little fear, because after all, the law of arms, God knows, there was talk of violence. We didn't know, and we were really joking about whether Vitsu was stuck in the elevator or where he was gone. Instead of him, a person who had not even read the draft arms law was sent out, a few questions of control showed this very clearly. But he voted right, i.e. according to conscience and party line. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U288	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U289	It's a little weird. Especially when we were in the same hearing, yelling and yelling about who wants to break the law, when there are deadlines and whatever. Everyone seems very law-abiding, following the law of the house and the rules of procedure, good practice and all things. But if there's even a small chance of slipping a little bit, manipulating a little bit and rejecting somebody and making a new procedural decision, it's going to be done. I think it's a lame part of this, too. I also spoke on this legal aid issue when the language requirement was relaxed there, a little bit like IRL's lawyer. Now I'm here again. You have been cut short in the meantime, you will soon no longer need a lawyer, but you will still be sawing the same branch as you are sitting on, if you are always relaxing this requirement of the Estonian language. The Estonian language is the official language of Estonia and let it remain the language in some areas where we seek and act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U290	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U291	Mr. President! Thank you, gentlemen and ladies and gentlemen. I'm supplementing Valdo Randper's report. The Commission's hearing was extremely unpleasant, extremely childish, and insulting each other was a total bitch. Mr. Randpere has just said that I have been asked questions of control. I was asked this question: How many rounds of sports rifles can you have in the safe at the same time? I didn't get a chance to answer that because the hearing started, and there was an alternate from the Reform Party, and another man. I asked him how many rounds of sports rifles could be in the safe, and he couldn't answer. So, basically, there was a full steam fire under the table. That's all I wanted to say. Valdo, let's not insult each other, comrades and colleagues! I've had a weapons license for 12 years. I've been taking weapons exams, and I'm going to go update my weapons license at a normal time, maybe change, do check-ups and all the other stuff. So a weapon is not a source of danger; in a normal person, a weapon is a discipline factor. When you're armed, you're a completely different person with very strong self-control. So please don't tell me any more about how many blanks or how many rounds of sports rifles you have in your safe. These points are described in detail in the Weapons Act and must be complied with in an uncontroversial and punctual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U292	On behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Kruusimäe Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U293	Thank you, good Chairman!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U294	Wait a minute, Tarmo! The previous negotiator named Valdo Randpere. He has the right to object. Wait!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U295	Thank you. Since I was called here, it gave me a good opportunity to say one more thing I forgot to say from the remote. The second amendment, which is actually completely illogical, is that a practical attempt must be made again to use the weapon when extending the permit. I really don't understand that logic. Here there is a parallel to the Traffic Act, and the car can also stand in the garage for a person; it may not be used. And if you point out that maybe the gun hasn't been used at all in the meantime and the person has forgotten where the bang comes from, then the "sunday car driver" can also be screwed by car at the moment when the permits need to be extended. So I don't see the logic here, and I think it's an unreasonable change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U296	Now Tarmo Kruusimäe is participating in the negotiations on behalf of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U297	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am obviously the juice cap here among you, but I have been in Tallinn City Council for 12 years. And I have made one thing clear: the ambassador is free in his own decisions. He is also free in his own speeches. What I'm hearing right now, is it any different here on Toompea? I, too, have been an alternate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and no one has told me in advance how I have to vote more than that, whether I can ask or not to ask. Perhaps I have really misunderstood something, but it is said that the ambassador is not free in his own decisions and must proceed from previous votes. So I'm waiting for your answers right there, which a man has already said, come over and talk about. Let's make this clear there if no one dares to say from this board that a member of the Riigikogu is free in his own decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U298	There is no further wish for negotiations. Henn Põllamaas would like to speak, though. Please, Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U299	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U300	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U301	Overregulation for bogus security, unduly large-scale intervention rights for officials, harassment of law-abiding and loyal arms owners, damage to defence capabilities and greater opportunities for crime and terrorism, these are the keywords of the draft amendment to the arms law. One of the features of being free is the right of a person to decide whether or not to own and carry a weapon in self-defense. This is a basic right for citizens, an elementary prerequisite for a democratic and free society. The Supreme Court also takes the same view. It is also important for defence policy. The concept of total defence is one of the fundamental foundations of national defence in Estonia. It is based on an armed people who, if necessary, can assist in overcoming attacks on state structures or in resisting violent changes to the regime in accordance with the Constitution. This requires the existence of personal weapons. In Estonia, firearms were allowed in the so-called first republic and again since regaining independence. Our laws, along with strict requirements for applicants for a weapons permit, have ensured that there are virtually no legal weapons crimes. There have been few gun incidents and a few of them have been reported weapons. And neither have they all been committed by legal weapons owners. In short, there is no gun crime in Estonia, where legal weapons are used. Unfortunately, the people of weapons are reluctant to be held by the European Commission, by some of our political parties, and also by officials who have now come up with an extreme, over-regulated, meaningless draft, full of provisions and prohibitions. It is claimed that one of the objectives of amending the arms law is to prevent the spread of terrorism and crime that has hit Europe, but the measures recommended have the opposite effect. The best barrier is a nation with the opportunity to resist in self-defense. We should take the example of the Czech Republic, which supports the existence of self-defence weapons for all citizens. Much of our weapons owners are policemen, defence forces and defence allies who are loyal and thoroughly trained in weapons to Estonia. The Social Security-led Ministry of the Interior's draft law on weapons acts as a distrust for them. The armed acts of terrorism in Europe have been committed with illegal, black market weapons. Restricting legal weapons has no effect on the prevention of terrorism and crime. On the contrary, by taking a citizen's opportunity to defend himself, his property, and his family, terrorists are given the opportunity to slit their throats or crush pedestrians and children with cars without fear of anything. The presence of one armed citizen can save dozens, if not hundreds of lives. When looking at terrorist offences, cars and kitchen knives should also be banned from doing so on the basis of injuries and deaths. However, when it comes to disloyal and stateless people, Russian citizens and members of shooting and paintball clubs, where, among other things, tactical movements are taught, possession of weapons should be prohibited for grey passers and third-country nationals. It might be too late at the moment of suspicion. Given the security policy situation, this step would be justified, especially if, for example, the shooting clubs in Narva are full of the weapons of Russian citizens living in Russia. What do you need it for? The country needs to know where and who has the firearms and what they do with them. At the same time, citizens who have already been entrusted by the State with the right to carry weapons and who have used the weapon for the purpose, whether self-defence, hunting or sports, must not be restricted. The Estonian arms law is strict enough and supervision works well. The requirement to make further attempts and to justify, once again and again, why the weapon is wanted, is too much. That's too much! After all, a person has explained this, his background has been checked, he has been a decent citizen, and he has complied with all laws. Otherwise, the permit would have been taken away by now. There is no need to create any new and artificial obstacles that officials can use under a discretionary label in accordance with their own discretion or any other guidance. And what does "sufficient justification" mean? No matter how justified the need to have a weapon, an official may still state that the justification is not sufficient. They might ask if you needed a weapon for self-defense. No, I don't, so I don't need it. If you feel threatened, you should go to a psychiatrist, but if you don't, then why don't you have a gun? We already have examples of this, but in legitimising the new version, this absurd rule will be turned into a rule because, let us be honest, the purpose of the draft is to take away weapons from the people. It is completely unreasonable to reduce the number of rounds allowed for shooting sports. In Estonia, restrictions are already completely unreasonable. A person with a weapon for self-defense may have only 100 rounds, regardless of the number of weapons. For example, if there are four pistols with different calibres, only 25 rounds remain for one weapon. I've been shooting lately, and it took me about 100 rounds in less than an hour. Based on the above example, I could only have had 10 to 15 minutes. It's not training, it's joking. The restrictions do not allow sufficient training or handling of weapons, as the law requires, in particular, shooters who have tens of times the cost of bullets. If they buy or get more bullets, it's a violation, and it means they're gonna be taken away. If they don't train or know how to handle a gun, they're gonna take the gun away again. There is no limit fully in Finland. Does this pose a risk to their security, crime, or terrorist threat? Of course not. That's the way we have to go. And just as unwarranted is the requirement for a collection permit and a weapons locker since the ninth weapon. How are eight weapons safe in the weapons closet, but nine aren't? There are also positive aspects, but there are too many negative aspects. Therefore, the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading so that the Ministry can come here with intelligent and sensible proposals without harassing decent citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U302	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U303	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Speaking on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will leave the good and problematic aspects of the Arms Act unscathed, because I do not master the subject so well that I can do so. However, I would like to speak at two moments on the basis of the previous speaker. First of all, the Arms Act, which was in force in the pre-war Republic of Estonia. The point of this arms law was that every fully-fledged citizen of the Republic of Estonia must be able to protect his family and his country. The question of whether the weapons test should be carried out in Estonian or by means of an interpreter was never at the forefront at that time. What I want to say is that the assessment of each language and the appreciation of each language begin first with us. If we say in a row and in a row that we are giving up the Estonian language, we will meet for better comprehension, then we will lose the right to be those who are proud of that language. Weapon-writing is not a fundamental option. However, arms transfer and possession are, above all, a matter of loyalty to this person, the citizen, also in the case of a service weapon. The language requirement here is not too much, and the Estonian Free Party Group also supports the use of Estonian on the theory side of the weapons examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U304	On behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U305	Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the Social Democratic Party Group were quite concerned when Mr Põlluaas was on this board, whether he would not say so. But when it was exactly 3 minutes and 12 seconds since the speech started, the blame for the Soviets came to pass. It must be said that the Social Democratic Party Group supports this draft, which has been brought into this Chamber by our Minister Andres Anvelt and which has been developed by the previous Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U306	There are no further requests to speak. Honourable Riigikogu, the Commission's proposal is to finish the first reading of draft 494. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to return the draft at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject the draft 494 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 15 and 39 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 494 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 16 o'clock on 18 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U307	The following is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the State Fees Act and the State Legal Aid Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic in order to improve the efficiency of administrative proceedings. Initiator waitress, Home Secretary Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U308	Hello again! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I will introduce and explain to you the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the State Fees Act and the State Legal Aid Act 496 in order to improve the efficiency of administrative court proceedings. I do so at the request of the Minister for Justice, who is on an urgent foreign visit with regard to the Presidency. The number of administrative matters has steadily increased and things have become more extensive and complex. That is why we need to look for ways to deal with administrative matters more effectively. The initiative for drafting this draft came from the administrative judges. To prepare the draft, the Minister of Justice called a working group consisting of the judges of the Tallinn Administrative Court and the District Court, an advisor to the Supreme Court and a representative of the Ministry of Justice. The draft aims to make administrative court proceedings more effective. Firstly, the congestion of the courts will be mitigated. Secondly, the increase in procedural complaints is contained and the availability of procedural assistance is improved. In order to reduce the burden on the courts, the right of appeal and the right of appeal are defined in cases where the breach of the law protected by the complaint is less intensive and the circumstances are unlikely to give rise to the complaint or where the appellant has seriously abused the right of appeal, for example in a particularly disrespectful manner. The second measure to reduce the burden on courts is the extension of the possibilities of using the simplified procedure. In particular, in simple proceedings, the Court will examine the case in a simplified manner, as it sees fit. The Court has been given more flexibility in the light of the procedural rules, such as the setting of time limits, the form of procedural documents and the requirements for service. As a significant change, the threshold for the application of the simplified procedure will be raised from EUR 200 to EUR 1000. In comparison, in civil proceedings, the threshold for the application of the simplified procedure is already EUR 2 000, together with the secondary requirements of EUR 4 000, and there is also a draft on the move which will further increase this threshold. In the administrative court, for an asset value below EUR 1000, the offence is generally considered to be minor and it is possible for the court to apply a simplified procedure. In order to contain the increase in procedural appeals, the Regulation will be made exempt from state fees. The state fee for the appeal is currently EUR 15, but its recovery entails time and financial costs. Increasing the workload of courts and slowing down the basic procedure are neither reasonable nor practical. However, the right to appeal is restricted in order to ensure that the exemption in turn does not drown the courts in appeals. In the cases listed in the law, an appeal may be lodged only once, such as the granting or refusal of access to the file, the refusal to reimburse the costs of examining the case and the granting of procedural assistance. The proposal will improve access to procedural assistance for people at risk. The Court will have the opportunity to assess more flexibly the applicant's income and the need for procedural assistance. Where procedural aid is granted, the person shall be released from all or part of the costs. These include, for example, state fees, bail, translation of procedural documents, as well as legal aid for a designated lawyer. Procedural aid shall be granted where the costs are greater than twice the person's monthly income, less the necessary costs, such as maintenance, reasonable housing and transport costs. In future, other unavoidable expenses can be deducted from the income in court up to 75% of the minimum monthly remuneration established. In addition to the above, the draft includes a number of improvements and additions resulting from the practice of the Supreme Court, such as the procedure for the refund of state fees and bail paid more, the payment of procedural costs in the event of the return of a complaint, the content of the claim for reimbursement of procedural costs, the rules for determining the costs of proceedings in the event of failure to cancel administrative acts of procedural or formal error, etc. That's all for short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U309	No questions for the waitress. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs is Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Legal Affairs Committee dealt with the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the State Fees Act and the State Legal Aid Act on 18 September in order to improve the efficiency of administrative court proceedings. Ms Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Ms Katariina Kärsten, Adviser to the Legal Policy Department's Legislative Organisation, participated in the Ministry of Justice. The Minister briefed the Commission on the objectives of the draft and stated that the amendments were intended to reduce the procedural burden on the courts and improve access to procedural assistance. It also aims to create more opportunities for the use of simplified procedures. The Minister's story was longer, but since it would repeat somewhat the content of the previous presentation, I am not going to go over everything. The questions were as follows: Jaanus Karilaid, the chairman of the committee, wanted to know how much the administrative burden on the courts would be reduced as a result of the entry into force of this draft. According to Urmas Reinsalu, the burden may be reduced by about 15%. Katariina Kärsten, adviser to the Ministry of Justice, added that the draft would also extend the basis for the application of the simplified procedure. A simple procedure is a less resourceful type of procedure compared to the ordinary procedure, since the court may examine the case under a simplified procedure, such as listening to a party to the proceedings by telephone, derogating from the formal requirements for documents and also abandoning the hearing. Linnar Liivamägi, adviser to the Committee on Legal Affairs, considered that the sentence "the intention to lodge a more late appeal for compensation in § 1 (3) of the draft law does not give rise to the right to lodge an appeal for identification' should be specified, as the procedural rule should be unambiguous. He's not supposed to be right now. Minister Urmas Reinsalu agreed that the wording of this provision should be specified. At present, there is such a text in the draft: 'According to identification can only be lodged if there are no more effective means to protect the right. The intention to lodge a subsequent appeal for compensation shall not give rise to an appeal for identification. ' For the second reading, I think, there will be better wording. A number of decisions were also taken: to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 27 September, i.e. today (a unanimous decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (including consensus), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 11 October (including consensus) and to appoint me as rapporteur (consensus). And these consensual decisions were made by Jaanus Karilaid, Raivo Aeg, Külliki Kübarsepp, Toomas Paur, Hanno Pevkur, Liisa Oviir, Valdo Randpere, Urve Tiidus and Toomas Vitsut. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U311	No questions for the waitress. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 496 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U312	The following is the first reading of the Administrative Procedure Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Amendment of Other Acts Act 497. Initiator waitress, Home Secretary Andres Anvelt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U313	Hello again! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! Estonia's targeted and innovative action to promote e-governance has become the story of Estonia's success, and the innovative ideas underpinning this success story must also be found in the legal world. Often it is not enough just to want to do things faster, better and easier; regulation must also catch up with it. Electronic communication between the State and the person is one of the keys to making administrative procedures faster and more effective. The Administrative Procedure Act lays down the basic basic principle of administrative procedures, according to which administrative procedures are carried out in a purposeful and efficient manner, as well as as as easily and quickly as possible, avoiding unnecessary costs and inconveniences for persons. Alongside this principle with the success story of the e-state and the need for its continuous development, it is clear that electronic communication between the state and individuals must also be promoted. The draft law amending the Administrative Procedure Act creates a general regulation that takes into account the specificities of administrative procedures in electronic form. It takes account, on the one hand, of modern requirements, including the need for the person and the State to communicate electronically, but, on the other hand, it also takes into account the need for effective protection of the rights of the person taking part in the proceedings. The main objective of the draft is to modernise the service of the document by e-mail and e-mail. The law in force provides that the person's consent must be required for the electronic service of the document. If there is no such agreement, the administrative body may not deliver the document electronically. This means that according to the general regulation of the administrative procedure under the law, delivery is by post as a rule. This is an unnecessarily costly and time-consuming operation in today's information society. Some specific laws already provide for differences in relation to the administrative procedure law, setting out the distinction between electronic delivery. Upon the entry into force of the Act, the administrative body shall have the right to decide for itself whether it is more appropriate to use mail or electronic channels, such as forwarding the document directly to the person's email address or using the information system of the administrative body, taking into account the circumstances of the case. It is not enough to transmit the document to the person's e-mail address or to set up an information system. The document can only be deemed to have been served if the person has confirmed that he received the document at the e-mail address sent to him or if the information system has registered the opening and receipt of the document. An important aspect of this draft is that, in the case of a company, a legal person governed by public law, a lawyer, an auditor, a notary, a bailiff, a insolvency practitioner, a patent attorney and a sworn translator, it is sufficient for the document to be deemed to have been delivered if the document is forwarded to an e-mail address registered in the commercial register of that person or, for example, published on its website. However, this principle does not apply to non-profit organisations or foundations, since they are not explicitly required by law to provide their contact address to the register concerned. Regulation of the moment of service is essential to ensure sufficient legal clarity, taking into account established judicial and administrative practice. The draft also removes other inconsistencies that have emerged as a result of the continuous development of the e-state since the entry into force of the Administrative Procedure Act in 2002. For example, a rule requiring an authorisation to issue an act or a proxy in electronic form in a special law or regulation is repealed. The requirement to add a digital signature and an e-stamp is waived in a situation where the procedure takes place via an electronic channel and the administrative body has already identified the person in a secure manner. The administrative body shall also be given the opportunity to publish the operative part of the document by means of a newspaper or, in the case provided for by law, by means of Official Announcements, in the absence of information on the person's e-mail address or the document cannot be otherwise served on the person. The current law provides for this possibility if delivery by post has not been successful. Once the law enters into force, it will continue to be possible under similar conditions even if electronic delivery is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U314	The members of the Riigikogu have no questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt! The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U315	Good evening. Good Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is true that the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu has dealt with and studied this draft. I have to admit that since I reached the Riigikogu again, the content of the protocols has grown considerably closer. And I will not go back to describing the content of this bill, because Minister Anvelt did it exquisitely. Anyone who considers himself to be a member of the Administrative Procedure Support Group in the Riigikogu can consult Protocol 125 of the Constitutional Committee sitting, where our debate is written. However, in order to illustrate this debate, I will take the selected question from the final part of our protocol. In fact, Jüri Adams, our vice-president of the Commission, said that, given Estonia's e-governance context, it is surprising that this issue will not be dealt with until 2017. What is the reason? Urmas Reinsalu replied that mostly the reason has so far retreated to a more rigid understanding of the fundamental rights of a person. Figuratively speaking, there is a common understanding that the delivery of a message on paper is the surest way to ensure that a person has actually received the message. The experience and case law analysed in other countries have now been assessed and the proposed solution is also consistent with the duty of due diligence of the State. At the same time, it is important that the system is not abused, including the authorities. It is necessary to avoid a situation in which the state has sent a document, but the person has not actually received it. So that was the summary. And indeed, people have become more mobile, some of them even in Marbella. It is also easier to communicate with the state after processing the law, after all, to send these letters to Tallinn's address. The Commission proposed that this draft be put on the plenary agenda today, 27 September, and so it has gone. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading and I hope that this will happen (otherwise, there was consensus on it). I won the call for a rapporteur (there was also a consensus on this). And if you have any amendments that would make this draft even better, it is high time that we approached them at 5.15 p.m. on 11 October, we should not come later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U316	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur either. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 497 is complete. The deadline for tabling amendments is 11 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U317	The following is the first reading of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress, finance minister Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U318	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act. The government has submitted to you a draft designed to change the rules on the taxation of business income from self-employed persons. The total number of changes with different impacts is more than a dozen, and all of them should be more conducive to self-employment. There are two directions to change the self-employed. The self-employed person is granted the right to make certain deductions from income which are currently limited to companies. On the other hand, tax incentives and social guarantees for workers are also extended to self-employed workers. The amendments to the Income Tax Act concern the deduction of reception and advertising costs and of social contributions paid from business income. In addition, business income earned abroad by self-employed persons is exempt from tax in Estonia. It is important for self-employed entrepreneurs to reduce the social tax ceiling 15 times from the minimum wage to ten times the minimum wage and to extend the period of loss carry-forward from seven to ten years. The draft also makes the rules for calculating minimum social tax obligations and advance payments more flexible. More than ever, the burden of breaks and learning caused by illness will be taken into account when calculating the social tax obligation. The right to deduct health promotion costs and catering costs related to external missions is also established for self-employed persons. In addition to the changes related to self-employment, the draft increases the share of income tax to be paid to local governments. This increases from 11.6% to 11.91% of the person's taxable income over the next three years. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U319	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, you and your colleagues from the Ministry spoke briefly about this issue, which is why self-employed people still need it today. We now have the possibility of a business account and it is very easy to set up a private limited company that does not need to have a capital contribution or anything. What role does self-employed people play today? And do you think it would be better to form a private limited company or act as a self-employed person? In which case will taxation be more favourable for those who wish to engage in entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U320	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U321	Thank you for your question. I think that for a start-up small business, self-employment is now one of the most favourable and simple ways of doing business. Perhaps precisely because there is no obligation to submit a number of mandatory reports to others, to keep accrual-based accounts, etc. There are currently over 30,000 self-employed people. So this already shows that they really want to be a self-employed person, even though they sometimes have a slightly negative reputation for being a self-employed person.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U322	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U323	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I read in this bill's explanatory memorandum that we have had the corporate income rule for active activity and distribution into capital revenue for years. I think about knowing what's meant here, but I don't know exactly how it works. I ask you, if there is such a rule, you have not considered applying it to private limited companies either. We know we have this problem that dividends are paid instead of wages. If we had this rule of capital gains and business income distribution, then we could stop doing that OÜ too. Have you considered applying this rule to OÜs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U324	Thank you for your question. I haven't considered it. The proposals for this draft have come from a working group which started in 2012. It has also been in the coordination circle, and there was no such proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U325	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U326	Mr President! Mr. Minister! I'm going to ask you the other side of my benchmate's question again. Which, according to your assessment, is more favourable from a tax point of view, either to work as a self-employed person or to make a private limited company immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U327	Thank you. If there is a plan to do business properly and take on employees in the perspective, then I would prefer a private limited company. I used to be a self-employed person myself. I thought it would be good to use this opportunity to manage a returned apartment building, rent it out, for example, but I still decided in favour of the private limited company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U328	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U329	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! On this issue, which I am now presenting, too, there was no quite final clarity in the Commission's sitting. The issue of municipal funding is, in fact, a long-standing discussion. Even the Centre Party has been talking for years about the need to increase the revenue base of local governments and eliminate the injustice between them. This idea hasn't suddenly come from anywhere in the sky. How did it happen now that there was another tiny cluster law before us, that there was no time for this change of the local government's income base anywhere else or as a separate bill, but that it had to be planted here? Let us be honest, and your colleagues also acknowledged this at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, that there is absolutely no link between the two issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U330	Thank you. Can't say there's no connection. This is a draft, where the amendments to the Social Tax Act relate, to a lesser or greater extent, to amendments to the Income Tax Act. I wonder whether any simultaneous amendment of two or more laws can immediately be called a cluster bill. Yeah, well, if anyone wants to, they might say that, but I don't think that's the case here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U331	No further questions for the initiator. I am giving the opportunity to present to the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U332	Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was handed over to the Riigikogu on 11 September. We discussed this in the Commission before sending it to first reading on 19 September. There were the Minister of Finance, Mr Tõniste, two officials from the Ministry and seven members of the Commission. The explanations for the provisions of the bill were even a little more than that in this hall, and they were exhaustive. After that, eight questions were asked. One set of questions concerned coordination. We learned that this bill was coordinated with the Employers' Union, the Taxpayers' Union, the EVEA and the Health Insurance Fund. A positive response was given by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The Health Insurance Fund proposed what the Ministry of Finance was unable to reflect in the draft as it concerned the protection of databases. I can't even explain exactly what this was about, but it was about data protection. They asked whether there were any self-employed organisations and whether the draft had been agreed with them. They said they were already represented in the preparation of the draft. In fact, I read with interest the additional answer that this bill actually started to be implemented as early as 2012. There was also talk about how local government associations view these changes. It was announced that in April and August they were asked during the negotiations, in coordination with the budget for the following year, questions concerning the second part of the revenue base. Their response was positive in terms of both the percentages and the amounts (20, 25 and 29 million) over the next three years. Andres, my opinion of why these two laws came here together. We also asked the Commission why they came here together, whether this was a cluster law. When I saw that the last coordination with the local authorities' associations took place on 18 August, it was clear that if this bill went on its own, it would simply not be able to pass the procedure. At the same time, this revenue base needs to be increased very quickly. They also asked if they needed any self-employed people. The answer was that it was a micro-business with simplified accounting, either way. If the business grows, it goes into a company, takes the next form, etc. But you really need self-employed people. This is also shown by the number of these in Estonia in one protocol is 31000, the number in the second is 34000. I think that number's close by. One important question was that the National Audit Office's report states that if the local governments' income base increases, it will play more for the benefit of the large local governments and the small ones will lose. The answer to this was that the subject was being examined and negotiations were ongoing. The differences are certainly not going to be larger than those confirmed by ministerial representatives, and a compensation base calculation scheme is being developed for this purpose. Well, there was another question. Previously, the income tax rate received by local governments was 11,93%. Why is there no such purpose as to restore it? I'll remind you, in three years, it'll be 11.91%. The answer was that in the meantime, when it was 11.4%, 0.2% was added to compensate for land tax. In the time that has passed, some commitments have been withdrawn from local authorities, which will also reduce their financial burden. After the debate, four procedural decisions were taken (all consensual): to appoint the chairman of the Commission as rapporteur, to propose to the Bureau that this draft be brought to the Chamber on 27 September, today, to propose 10 days for amendments, i.e. until 11 October at 5.15 p.m., and to propose that the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U333	There are no questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. Sven Sester, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U334	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who are still here! We are now, in my opinion, in a historical sense, perhaps in a very good moment that has been said with too much pathos. In fact, the government has brought a bill to this table, which has actually been expected for quite a long time. This has long been awaited by the sector that it is going to touch, i.e. the self-employed. In the meantime, there were questions and answers that are the pros and cons of the output of one business or another. It's not just private companies and self-employed people these days. Listen, we also have public limited liability companies, we have full societies, and we now also have the possibility to create an entrepreneurial account. Everyone has their pros and cons. By the way, there are very few partnerships in Estonian business. The reason is very simple: in the case of a full society, you are responsible with the tail and hair, with all your property. On the other hand, the situation is quite different when dealing with banks, for example. The bank also knows that every decision you make is all your property at stake. For each possible form of enterprise, you must also actually take into account your potential turnover, whether you will be subject to VAT in the future, whether you are better to hire more employees at certain times, etc. If you're alone, it's probably better to act like a self-employed person. So when operating in one field of activity or another, there is actually a choice in Estonia. Since the draft specifically concerns the self-employed and I myself have been involved in the drafting of this draft, I will mark one more word. In my opinion, the primary objective of this draft is to give the self-employed the same opportunities that currently exist for companies that use other forms of company to operate, mainly public limited liability companies and private limited liability companies. If you're asking what the odds are, which is different here, which changes with this bill, I'll give you examples. We ourselves changed with a bill that was 21 years old. What was that? Let us remind you that we had a daily allowance limit of 32 euros on our foreign mission. We changed it, there's no such limit. Now it's 50 euros. But the self-employed didn't change that amount, they got 32 euros. This is an example of what is now being changed. Or if, for advertising purposes, the self-employed person made a product, a pen or anything, he was not able to transfer the goods to an equivalent extent to his operating costs. A limited company and a public limited company already have this possibility. These are examples in which we can see that the changes align the activities of the self-employed with those of a private limited company or a public limited company. I think it's very important. This further increases the possibility that a person who wants to become an entrepreneur wonders why not try it through self-employment. Carrying forward losses. It is possible to carry on losses for seven years now, but with the next change we have on the table today, it is possible to carry on losses for ten years. Lowering the social tax ceiling. At present, it is 15 times the salary that will be reduced to ten times. These are all the changes that have come to the table over time. It's true, in time, it started to be said a long time ago. As early as 2012, entrepreneurial people, for whom self-employment was a matter of the heart, such as Olavi Kärsna, who I am sure many know, and Priidu Pärna, joined the Ministry of Justice in a working group. And in the final report of this working group, there were 30 lists of how they envisage changes to the tax and social tax arrangements. Some of these proposals have been implemented to date; some cannot be implemented at all; some are unreasonable. But these changes could also be implemented. I'm particularly pleased about one thing. After all, government coalitions often try to take all the credit for one or the other change on the table. At this point, I can say, looking at everyone, that this bill has come here on the initiative of the IRL. That was our election promise, and we also got it into the coalition agreement. Today it is on this table and we hope that we can accept it with three readings. So thank you again to everyone that we have come this far!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U335	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U336	Ladies and gentlemen, I forgot to mention that we in the Commission asked what the impact of the amendments to the first half of this draft, which concern self-employed people, would be. All 13 amendments are only positive. Their total cost is EUR 1320000, of which 272000 is income tax and the remaining 1048000 is already social tax. Moreover, it is estimated that around EUR 500000 will go to the tax authorities in order to organise the tax accounting system. That was an explanation. But I want to say very briefly about this bill that when I told my colleagues at home, I was told this: you know, when we hear that this amendment has been voted into the law, we believe. I could say my hands are shaking with happiness. It's a lucky thing that I'm reporting it here, and I'm talking about this local government revenue base. Actually, the hands don't shake, but the joy is huge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U337	There are no further requests to speak. First reading of Bill 499 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 11 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U338	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws related thereto. The initiator's waitress is once again Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U339	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today, there is also a draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions at first reading and in this connection amending other laws. It integrates into Estonian law the principles and objectives set out in the Second Payment Services Directive. The proposal encourages the entry into the market of new payment services and harmonises the operating conditions of payment service providers. It also creates conditions for a safer payment environment and extends the protection of consumers' rights. The rapid development of information technology has not left the area of payment services untouched either. On the contrary, different electronic payment options have increased the choice and availability of payment services from year to year. In doing so, the development and functioning of the payment services market requires laws that pursue two slightly conflicting objectives. On the one hand, the innovation of payment instruments must be encouraged, but on the other hand, security risks must be mitigated. Effective monitoring of compliance must be put in place. Consequently, it is important that all payment service providers are supervised by the Financial Supervision Authority. This also applies to companies offering innovative payment services. The draft concerns the operation and supervision of new types of payment service providers. This will increase the protection of consumers' rights, ensure fair competition between service providers and increase confidence in the payment market. In one of the developments in information technology, more and more attention must also be paid to the security of the payment environment. In order to increase security, the use of password cards that have so far been widely used is restricted. Customers' safer authentication tools, such as ID cards and PIN calculators, help protect against possible security incidents at a different level than password cards. If you look at the Estonian payment services market in comparison with other European countries, we see a picture that shows that we are a very well-developed country with a high level of digital solutions. Transferring via Internet Bank and e-invoice standing payments are an integral part of our daily lives. The bank card is being used more and more and this trend continues. With the bill, we will secure our good position and create favourable ground for further development. The law is planned to enter into force on 13 January 2018, which is also the deadline for transposition of the Second Payment Services Directive. The requirement for more secure customer authentication must be implemented as from the entry into force of the European Commission implementing regulation. This is expected to happen in the second half of 2019. I would also like to point out that until then, password cards are valid, unless a bank itself restricts their use in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U340	Questions for the waitress. There aren't any. Thank you, Toomas Tõniste! The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Andrei Novikov. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U341	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft on 19 September. The draft was presented by the Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, as a representative of the initiators. The Minister of Finance presented the purpose and content of the draft at the meeting of the Commission. He noted that the draft would transpose the new version of the PSD. The aim of the Payment Services Directive, as explained by the Minister, is to equalise the operating conditions of new operators operating on the market and entering the market, to encourage the expansion of the market for new payment services under fair conditions of competition and to ensure a high level of consumer protection for users of payment services throughout the Union. The draft also reduces the security risks associated with electronic payments. According to the Minister, the choice and transparency of payment services and consumer confidence in a harmonised payment market will increase, as will consumer protection regulation. There were also questions in the Commission. It was asked whether the customer could recall the transaction already initiated by virtue of the directive to be transposed. The reply was that in the case of a direct debit, it would be possible to call back the payment until the due date, and not later. They asked for clarification regarding password cards and asked whether this change was coordinated with banks. It was answered that transactions with password cards would be terminated in particular for security reasons. Larger banks, such as Swedbank or SEB Bank, are aware of this. AS LHV Pank and AS DNB Pank have stopped using password cards. Another question was whether the use of credit cards would be restricted. The answer was that the change only concerns online credit card payments, additional security measures are added. The Commission made the following consensual decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 27 September and to close the first reading. The deadline for amendments was 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 11 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-27_U342	Questions for the waitress. There aren't any. Thank you, Andrei Novikov! I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. First reading of draft 498 is complete. The deadline for amendments is 11 October at 5.15 p.m. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 19.59 p.m.
