ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U1	Good morning, Honourable Riigikogu, and Happy International Heritage Day! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 12th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U2	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, On behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, I have a question to the Minister for Social Protection, Mrs Kaia Iva, about the future of the social protection sector. In recent weeks, you have all heard about the problems that have arisen in the area of social protection. They concern the financing of special care, the social rehabilitation service, the assessment of working capacity, the assessment of the severity of the disability, the organisation of aids, as well as the development of the information system of the Social Insurance Board (SKAIS2). We have already asked about several problems. As we know, people with disabilities are, according to the Constitution, under the special care of the state and local authorities. The number of problems encountered in the field of social protection is of great concern. It is very important that solutions are found very quickly to the problems and that the country restores confidence in people with disabilities, which is beginning to disappear. Our inquiry has actually pushed us from an interview published in the Eesti Päevaleht yesterday, which has undoubtedly failed. At the same time, we believe that the Ministry and the Minister certainly have good proposals on how to deal with this situation. That's why we're giving the Minister the opportunity to come and introduce us to the plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U3	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U4	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that the Government of the Republic has decided to avoid important international projects and initiatives. We, five members of the Reform Party Group, ask the Minister of Justice Reinsalu why Estonia has abandoned its accession to the European Union's Prosecutor's Office, which is created by a large number of Member States. This prosecutor's office is primarily aimed at investigating international money laundering and corruption cases, as well as at investigating abuses of European funds. We are not asking if this has anything to do with the usual fear of the central party in the prosecution and the investigative authorities, but we would still like to know what this lack of interest is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U5	Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to hand over, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the draft Act amending the Act on the Parliamentary Advantage of the President of the Republic and the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Republic. The purpose of this draft is to waive the regulation of the President of the Republic's leave. In our opinion, there is no real need for this and it is also incompatible with the status of the Head of State. This regulation has been in force for more than 20 years today. During this period, no Head of State has completed one day's leave. This, too, indicates the unnecessaryness of the provisions on the President's leave. The purpose of the draft is to bring the legislation into line with the actual situation and to provide that the institution of the President of the Republic also provides for permanent office. In our opinion, the Head of State must have a permanent readiness to carry out important national tasks and, depending on the circumstances, to do so without delay, whether it is, for example, an emergency situation, martial law, a declaration of mobilisation or other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. We process them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. And now let's see if there's enough of us. Incoming check, please! There are 94 members of the Riigikogu, no 7.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U8	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Education Grants and Student Loan Act and the Employment Capacity Support Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, please waitress for the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I want to thank you. This item is about people with disabilities, so I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Free Party for its questioning today. As the author of the inquiry, Monika Haukanõm, referred here, was motivated by yesterday's daily article, which came up with the question of who has given this interview and what the journalist has used from this interview. Of course, I accept the journalist's right to use the part of the information he considers necessary when writing the article, but it is certainly not acceptable to leave a clear opposite, different or completely wrong impression. We have also filed an objection against this by the Ministry to the newspaper. I hope that the tapes will be interrogated and the opposition will also be published. However, I am certainly pleased to take this opportunity to tell you what I have told the journalist in the form that it is. We will now go to the related subject and today's item on the agenda: Draft Act 417, proposed amendments to the Study Grants and Student Loan Act and draft Employment Capacity Allowance Act. The development of this draft is based on the programme of action of the Government of the Republic, which provides for the removal by the state of student loans for the parents of children with severe disabilities. According to the current law, the state deletes a student loan for a person with no working capacity or if the borrower's child suffers from a serious disability. From 1 January 2018, the right to write off a student loan is also granted to persons whose child is identified as having a severe disability. According to the draft, the student loan will be cancelled if the parent has taken the student loan before the child is identified as having a severe disability. The social policy objective of the cancellation of a state student loan is to prevent the parent who has taken out the loan from experiencing difficulties in coping, as the parent is not expected to continue working on the same scale due to a significantly increased maintenance burden and therefore his or her salary may also decrease. In calculating the estimated cost of implementing this draft, it has been assumed that the proportion of persons taking student loans is equal to the proportion of parents of children with both severe and profound disabilities. At present, it is 5.18% of these parents. In the case of a student loan for parents of children with a deep disability, the average amount to be written off has been EUR 2160.57. Assuming that parents of children with severe disabilities are the same amount, extending the scheme would cost EUR 633047 in its initial year. The expenditure forecast for the following years is based on the 2015 statistics and it can be expected that these applications could be 60 in the future, i.e. EUR 129634 in the following years. In addition to the proposal to extend the range of entitled persons, this draft amends the procedure for the removal of student loans. The current process of writing off student loans requires the person to contact the credit institution that issued the student loan. A credit institution shall submit an application for cancellation of a student loan to either the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Education and Research, which shall verify the circumstances giving entitlement to write off the student loan and pay to the credit institution the amount owed by the borrower. This procedure has been complex, time-consuming and slow. According to the current draft, the person will submit a request for cancellation of the student loan by the state to the Social Insurance Board, which will carry out the relevant procedure. The Social Insurance Board has the necessary data to delete the student loan or is available through the unemployment fund. There is another amendment to this draft. Since 1 April, the Ministry of Education and Research has transferred the processing of its accounting and student loan claims to the State Support Services Centre and the proposal is therefore to grant this centre the right to represent the state in these legal relations. This includes the procedure for defaulting on the borrower's liabilities. The proposal is to amend the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, including to give the Social Insurance Board the right to receive information from the unemployment fund about the identification and duration of the incapacity of the borrower. It would then be possible to put all these proposals, which I mentioned above, into practice. I believe that this is a good and necessary draft, and I hope that it will be handled smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U10	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Minister, thank you. I will give the floor to the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Hunt, for a presentation by the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U11	Good morning. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee dealt with this draft law, i.e. the Act amending the Study Grants and Student Loan Act and the Employment Capacity Allowance Act, 417 on 10 April 2017. The Minister gave a similar overview to all members of the Commission, also presenting the financial resources that would go into the implementation of this law. He also explained what would make it easier, more efficient and quicker to delete student loans, and he also asked some questions. The question was asked by Monika Haukanõm was rather this comment, but she still expected a position from the Minister and Jüri Jaanson. The two issues concerned the debate on whether this is not an inequality situation. Indeed, in order for the parent's student loan to be deleted, the application must be submitted before the child is identified as having a degree of disability. This raises the question of whether the extension of this bill, apart from the parents of children with severe disabilities, will not lead to an unequal situation for the parents of children with severe disabilities in cases where the child has previously been identified as having a degree of disability. The Minister explained that this is not an inequality: however, the deletion of student loans has been extended in the sense of this bill and equality has been created. I would like to remind you that in 2014, the application for the cancellation of student loans to parents of children with deep disabilities will add to this bill for the parents of children with severe disabilities. And the Committee on Social Affairs adopted decisions: a proposal to put the draft law on the plenary agenda by today, 18 April; a proposal to close the first reading; a proposal to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, 3 May 2017 at 5.15; a proposal to appoint the chairman of the committee, Helmen Kütt, as rapporteur; and to ask the Committee on Culture for the opinion on the draft law amending the Law on student grants and student loans and the Act on Employment Capacity Allowance. All these decisions were consensual and I am happy to answer the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U12	Andres Ammas presents the first of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U13	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I have a pretty simple question and I apologise if it only ties up with this issue. Listening to you and to the Minister, the entire content of this bill seems very correct and normal. Why hasn't this been done before?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U14	That's a very good question. Now I can also talk about what I could not say as a Commission waitress. So thank you for your question. Between 2011 and 2014, when the Reform Party and the IRL were in government, the Social Democrats launched the draft as a opposition party and were dealt with. I must very much commend the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas, and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna, who dealt with this despite the negative position of the government. So, the Social Democrats, in my personal capacity too, initiated this draft so that the student loan for parents of children with both deep and severe disabilities would be extinguished. As we know, there was no free higher education at the time, i.e. there was no free study option, had to be paid. This draft was dealt with in two committees; the government's position was not to support it. It reached the hall with a bill number of 334 and on 12 June 2013 I was able to speak about this remote control and then, indeed, the Gulf opposition and coalition disappeared. True, the law was slightly curtailed: from 2014 onwards, only the student loans of parents of children with a deep disability began to be extinguished. But the fact that this bill is currently being processed and the decision is this means that the government, the Social Democrats, the IRL and the Centre Party, are ready to support it. Promises can be fulfilled in the government. And now this fine law, which came into force in 2014, and which has provided support and assistance to parents, continues: the parents of children with severe disabilities will also be treated in the same way as parents of children with deep disabilities within the meaning of this law. So thank you again for the question. And I would ask that you do not support the draft at first reading, but that you support the final reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U15	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U16	Thank you, dear waitress. If you really think that your role in presenting the content of the draft is to point the finger at some opposition party, try again. Tell me if it is a general social policy principle that people are supported according to loans taken. Are you also expected to have a draft on the cancellation of housing loans, for example, or are there some other social policy measures to consider?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U17	Ladies and gentlemen, When I presented the draft, I did not make any such statements, but reported what took place at the committee meeting, what was the debate. In the round of questions and answers, I think, I have the right to answer the questioner why such a bill is only coming now. And if I am not mistaken, I think I have very much appreciated the Reform Party and the IRL, who, despite the negative position of the government, in the committees and in the Riigikogu decided to proceed with and support this draft. So I don't feel like I'm pointing a finger at anyone, or if I do, it's just in recognition of this party and the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U18	At this stage of the draft procedure, the questioner will also be able to ask for a second time. Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U19	Thank you. You certainly have the right to answer the questions, but as a representative of the Commission, not from a personal point of view, not from a party point of view. In this sense, it must be specified. But I asked, too, and you have the right to answer me. Do you consider the cancellation of a loan to be a universally accurate and best way of social policy, or could there be a more neutral solution in social policy? Will the mortgage continue to be written off? It's also a loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U20	Thank you very much for your question. I must now comment that the deletion of housing loans is definitely not on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs, and that is not the subject of this committee either. If this comes up in another committee and someone submits a draft, it is possible to deal with it and discuss it. I have always felt that the burden on parents of children with deep or severe disabilities is now so great. And of those who, however, have also taken a student loan and have it deleted, you will see what this percentage is actually, how small it is, only those who have the need will use it. Yes, we obviously have a different understanding of social policy approaches, which is understandable. I accept your approach. And I certainly do not represent the Commission's position in answering the questions in this round, because in that case I could very simply answer you that this was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U21	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U22	Good manager! Good waitress! I was struck by a strange percentage of 5,18, which has become very important here. In 2014, 5.18% of parents of children with a deep disability were written off, and it has been taken as a basis that this 5.18 is some sort of dogmatic number, which also provides forecasts. Explain where the 5,18 fetishing started. And didn't 94.82% of the parents of children with deep disabilities ask for a loan to be written in the chimney this first year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U23	Thank you for your question. The draft law has been prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs. They have based parents of children with both severe and deep disabilities on the percentage of parents of children with severe disabilities that have been erased. They've taken it as an analog. It would probably have been better to put this question to Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Iva, because indeed, this was not mentioned in the Commission, this question did not arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U24	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U25	Thank you very much. Good waitress! In my opinion, it makes perfect sense to support parents of children with severe disabilities, to help their families. But I do have that kind of question. When you discussed this in the Commission, did you also have a question of 'justice' there: some families with a seriously disabled child have taken a student loan and received some kind of benefit from it, but others who have not taken the loan have not benefited from it either. If the state is going to provide additional support for those who have benefited, is it fair to those who also raise a child with severe disabilities but have not received this benefit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U26	Thank you for your question. I also believe that any support for parents and families of children with severe or deep disabilities is necessary and justified because they are deprived of many opportunities in comparison with others because of their heavy care burden. Is that unfair? Not in the sense of this bill, because it actually eliminates the injustice that has existed so far: apart from the parents of children with deep disabilities, the cancellation of student loans is now extended to parents of children with severe disabilities, as was the case before, according to Bill 334 in 2013. What concerns support for families with children with deep and severe disabilities is the subject of the following drafts. If they are foreseen and presented, I can certainly promise, on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs, that these drafts will be dealt with in full seriousness, regardless of whether they are presented from the opposition or from the coalition. So if a good fellow official has any ideas and suggestions on how to support these families, please submit a draft. The Committee on Social Affairs is certainly ready to deal with this procedure. To answer briefly about the Commission's debate, as I have pointed out, there was the question raised by Jüri Jaanson and Monika Haukamm. And the Minister also explained that these two ideas or laws are not related to each other in the sense that a contradiction is being resolved: the cancellation of student loans was valid until now only for the parents of children with a deep disability, and now the parents of children with severe disabilities are added. But we are undoubtedly ready to discuss the drafts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U27	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U28	Good manager! Good waitress! I still don't understand. Explain it to me. While school loans for parents of children with disabilities are currently written in the chimney, 94.82% of these people will continue to bear this burden. Why do most children with disabilities, i.e. 95%, not write student loans in the chimney?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U29	Thank you for your question. I don't want to use the expression 'written in chimneys'. Of the parents of children with deep disabilities, you have applied for the cancellation of your student loan. It's a matter of how many of them have taken student loans at all. This does not mean that the percentage that is deleted is only 5 and 95% are not deleted, but it is taken from the number of parents whose family has a child with a deep disability. And here is an analogy, which is simply based on the fact that parents of children with the same number of disabilities are likely to apply for cancellation of student loans. This does not mean that 95% of their student loans are paid: not all parents of children with deep disabilities have taken student loans and are unlikely to have a higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U30	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U31	I'm late for deletion, Helmen Hunter just turned down that answer. I wanted to explain to Peeter Ernits that not 5% of borrowers will be able to delete it, but simply all parents of children with deep disabilities are not necessarily loan payers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U32	Now the rhetorical question has also been answered. Thank you, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U33	Thank you again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U34	I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft law. Please, Monika Haukanõm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U35	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! The bill on our table today is commendable because we are creating a more equal opportunity for parents of children with severe or deep disabilities. Now, in addition to parents of children with severe disabilities and those with a deep disability and a lack of working capacity, parents of children with severe disabilities can also apply to the state for the cancellation of student loans. In fact, this can only be accepted and supported. Regardless of whether the child has been identified as having a severe or severe disability, the parent will be relieved to return the student loan. All the more so because we actually know that the line between heavy and deep trees is a breeze of wonder. There is, however, one concern that our discussion has now shown and which I would like to share with you again and repeat. In fact, this benefit can only be used if the child's disability is determined after applying for a student loan. Thus, the benefits we create do not extend to all parents of children with severe or deep disabilities who have taken student loans. And we can't really leave such a false impression on people as if it were spreading to everyone. If the parent is not fully informed and the child is identified with a disability, for example, one month before taking or applying for a student loan, the cancellation of the student loan does not extend. Such a design inevitably gives these people a sense of injustice. In the current situation, as well as in the draft before us, it is actually based on the importance of the moment when trees are identified as a fact, not whether a child with a disability is raised in the family or not, and how this affects the livelihood of the family. If there is such a child in the family, we all know that it affects family life and will inevitably entail additional costs that, fortunately, healthy children do not have. There are approximately 6500 children with severe or deep disabilities in Estonia, most of whose parents do not study at the university or apply for the cancellation of student loans. However, all parents who can and want to learn and develop themselves alongside a disabled child deserve praise and recognition. Whether the family's livelihood is supported by the cancellation of a student loan or by any other measure is, in fact, a matter of political decision-making. However, we must avoid the emergence of unequal and unfair situations, whether it is a real situation or a cognitive issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U36	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I came here not so much on behalf of the Reform Party, but simply to explain why such questions have arisen in the Commission, in the government and also in this Chamber. I would still like the discussion of drafts and social policies to be intelligent and we would really be dealing with arguments concerning a specific draft, a specific method of helping people. After all, no one disputes that the parents of a child with severe or deep disability are in an awfully difficult situation. However, it is not entirely an ideal draft, as it sounded here, as if we should agree with everything, i.e. every measure that is proposed and even say from this point of view that any measure has been said here, any measure to support such families is good. Any measure is not good. For example, we do not buy shoes or cabbage for vegetarians for the family's left-legged. That would be silly. However, we are now making another choice on the basis of taking a student loan because it has been done once. This really is not fair to those who have not taken the student loan. It gives a narrow circle of these unfortunates, if that is the case, maybe they do not feel unhappy about themselves or the families with a poor destiny have an advantage over other families with similar destiny. We should not extend the advantages granted by the regime. It is the devil of all kinds that as soon as they pass the mark, they will give birth to new advantages that are bypassing the mark. The family budget is complete. Everyone in the family budget has something special, and these families are actually kind of alike. We should not discriminate between them on the basis of whether they have taken student loans or not, but on the basis of treating them in the same way, that they are facing a very difficult situation because of their child, which prevents them from working and will certainly burden their budget as well. So I would have liked it to be spoken of, and at least it to be acknowledged, that it is a curve and a failed measure, that in fact it has approached the wrong side. We have deleted the student loan write-off measure before. It is clearly discriminatory for learners to decide, for example, whether or not they go to the public sector, thereby creating an advantage for someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U38	Please, Mrs Kangro, the representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U39	Honourable ambassadors! I didn't intend to speak, but the speech of MP Jürgen Ligi inspired me to do so. I shall then briefly note that it is not a good measure, in fact, for the Union of the Fatherland and Res Publica and the other coalition partners, which are dealing with such a small sector, i.e. how to improve the situation of one of the target groups in a bad situation. I totally agree with you about that, Jürgen. But I also want to mark why we have been patching up such a blanket for years, after all, it has largely been the result of the work done by the Reform Party in managing social policy for very long years or the work done badly. When we discussed this yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs, the so-called crisis in rehabilitation funds and the activities of the Social Insurance Board, even the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Social Affairs admitted that the Ministry has been working on the patchwork method so far, all these decades. And I think this is a very, very serious place where I personally call on all the MPs, all the political groups to take this step and to be a little over this sometimes quite primitive opposition- coalition struggle. Some people are anxious to show themselves and put them on the horn, not really thinking that it is their own work that has never been done in previous years. So my sincere appeal is that maybe we will take this historic step, that we, at least for a while in social matters, will stop this stupid struggle and bring together our best forces, as many or as few as there are in this Parliament or any other Toompea, who share the social system to the extent that we can take some more systematic, longer-term and smarter steps. That is my sincere appeal. I offer to cooperate with all of you who have this desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U40	Jürgen Ligi has the right to object. Please, in the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U41	Thank you. It is quite appalling to hear this when a party is in a coalition and taunts the former coalition partner on the subject of work, not actually making any arguments. Tiina Kangro said it's a bad method, but it's a job we didn't do. No, it's a job we didn't do together. However, it can be said that when we defend our party and the previous government, we initiated the whole work capacity reform. I don't take it personally, partyly, but just such mockery from the top down because we're in power now, and you can't criticize us, could stop. Really get over it! Really, that style could end. We are talking about a concrete measure, and we should not be hitting party labels.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U42	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 417. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 417 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U43	Next, the first reading of the Bill 391 of Amendment to § 41 of the Tax Organisation Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Remo Holsmer, member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress for the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you a proposal to amend § 41 of the Tax Administration Act, initiated by the Reform Party Group. I will first tell you about the history of this provision. In spring 2015, the Riigikogu unanimously adopted an amendment to the Tax Administration Act, which was intended to provide for six months between the adoption and entry into force of tax changes at the level of the Act. The members of the Reform Party, Centre Party, IRL and Social Democratic Party Group voted in favour of this amendment at the time. No one opposed it. The aim of the amendment was to increase the stability of the tax environment, improve the predictability of tax changes and allow more time for taxable persons to restructure as a result of tax changes. At that time, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry initiated the change by means of a collective appeal and signed by some 1300 companies and companies. It is a decision of principle. This will certainly improve the business environment and give confidence to current companies as well as to those who intend to set up their own company. So said Rannar Vassilyev, president of the Social Democrat Committee on Monetary Affairs at the time. The current Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, also voted in favour of the amendment and stated in 2015 that we are taking a step forward by law to create a predictable tax environment for businesses for a longer period. I quote Mr Sester: 'It is also a fact that the state negotiates with economic operators in advance before introducing tax changes. ' Now was the time! It was 2015. It was a year and a half past, and at the end of 2016, the IRL, the Centre Party and the Social Democrats had all these beautiful words and promises wiped out. At the end of last year, the Riigikogu adopted a draft tax group with the votes of these three political groups, which raised social tax compared to what was previously imposed at exactly two weeks' notice. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Tax Administration Act, a six-month rule may be violated if the country is experiencing a natural disaster, a socio-economic crisis or some other extreme situation. This is a perfectly logical window that we left in 2015 so that the country can react quickly in these cases. If we now think about what was the situation at the end of 2016, the unemployment rate was less than 5%, the economy was growing, wages were rising. The talk of a very exceptional situation is not very serious. A change of government as such, yes, a legitimate process, but that's not a reason to break the six-month rule. The result is here. The result is that the Chamber of Commerce and Businesses has brought the State to court. In the same way, the Chancellor of Justice has turned to court because of the too hasty increase in excise duties. This is now an example of a government policy in which entrepreneurs are forced to defend their rights through a court of law. And I don't think it's a very good practice and we don't have a very modern country when a government acting as a partner creates law and makes tax changes hastily and rapely. At the end of the year, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise also referred to some inaccuracies in the relevant section and explanatory memorandum of the current Tax Administration Act. He proposed that, for reasons of legal clarity, the text of the law should list those specific cases where a derogation from six months' notice would be allowed. Let me remind you, then, that these special cases are currently described at the level of the explanatory statement. This bill leads to special cases in the text of the law. I will also describe these specific cases: the prevention of and implementation of the necessary measures to tackle tax fraud, the response to, or prevention of, a significantly changed economic, financial stability, environmental and security situation. By supporting the draft, you will vote in favour of a more stable and predictable tax environment, as we all have, four political groups, agreed and voted together in spring 2015. I think it would actually be fair for those people who vote against to initiate a bill that would at all repeal this section because, as we saw at the end of last year, this paragraph does not apply in substance in the Republic of Estonia. The majority of the coalition is simply voting over it, and the agreement that four political parties made here in the Riigikogu in 2015 is considered nothing. Thank you for your attention and I call on everyone to support the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U45	The first question is Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U46	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The current government union is known to prepare at least six major changes to the tax law. These are new taxes, their preparation is only at an early stage, these drafts have not yet been developed and discussed with business organisations. If they increase the tax burden, they should enter into force before 1 July. There are still six working weeks left in this spring session and it is clearly not possible to discuss these drafts at a reasonable pace. Does the coalition's opposition to this bill not result from its intention to violate this six-month rule so that these new taxes can be put into effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U47	Thank you. First of all, these taxes. Yeah, six taxes, as we've counted here, are going to be introduced by the new government. We will add to it a step-by-step income tax that has already been regularised since the beginning of next year. I'm sure in history this government will go with such a large amount of taxes. Secondly, as far as the introduction of these taxes is concerned, it is difficult to predict. Your point is quite right that there are six working weeks left. Whether these changes can be pushed through the Riigikogu during this period or whether the Riigikogu can discuss them is difficult to say. In any case, looking at the current situation, this process will be about the same as it was at the end of the year. These are very voluminous drafts, very fundamental tax changes, but it is expected that the Riigikogu will discuss them very quickly before Midsummer Day. If they cannot be discussed, the six-month rule will be violated once again. But as I said, it seems to me that, in fact, the IRL, the Centre Party and the Social Democrats have withdrawn from this principle anyway. I have also repeatedly proposed to Sven Sester that this paragraph be annulled. It'll probably come out soon, because, as you can see, this paragraph doesn't work in law, it doesn't follow.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U48	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U49	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! In June 2015, this hall passed a cluster law here, which the coalition at the time felt was essential and justified in every way. Last year, this hall again passed a cluster law, which the new coalition felt was essential and very justified. Two will not be left without a third: probably in June this year, we will be faced with another new cluster law. How do you see the connection between the six-month rule and the cluster laws now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U50	Thank you. This is a follow-up to the previous question. Obviously, this cluster law is really coming, with which all of these six or seven taxes, or I don't know how much tax the government intends to impose, it wants to legitimise. I will once explain the difference between 2015 and 2015: these were sectoral tax laws that the government prepared for a long time with its coordination circle. I think we have also spoken about this here at the end of last year that the draft initiated by the government will be sent to the coordination circle, the ministries will evaluate it, make proposals and then submit it to the Riigikogu. This was done in 2015: it was preceded by a normal engagement process and the six-month rule was also followed so that the changes would have been adopted by 1 July 2015. All of this was followed, and that's the difference. When we compare how tax changes were made in October-November 2016, a good colleague, Ammas, knows very well that Mr Sester, came up with 37 pages of amendments without any prior coordination at government level, they were tabled through the Commission. It's another process. It's that difference.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U51	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Perhaps you will comment as the initiator of this draft and as a rapporteur on the sentence by which the Government rejected this proposal: 'the amendment of the law in the manner set out in the draft would be rather seemingly effective and impractical'. I'm interested in a couple of words called "visible influence." If the Chancellor of Justice has said that the six-month rule on the explanatory memorandum in force so far is not a legislative act, how can you understand this apparent effect if the principle in the explanatory memorandum of the text of the law has now been made very clear?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U53	Thank you. With the Reform Party Group, we relied very much on the Chancellor of Justice in legal arguments, who, in his opinion, just as you referred precisely to the specific cases in the explanatory memorandum, could be described as a legislative paradigm to have legal clarity, unambiguousness and also legal certainty. On this basis, we proposed. The position of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance is, in my opinion, seemingly apparent. As I said, it would be more honest to cancel this paragraph at all. I'm sure the minister will come by with this proposal and he'll cancel it sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U54	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I also come to this cluster law. I have this idea that, apart from this six-month principle, it would also be worth laying down that tax laws will not be amended in the package. Honestly, I don't see as much difference as you do between this 2015 case and the end of last year. They were both bad precedents. But in 2015, when the Reform Party came here with its cluster package, it was this six-month rule that became an obstacle. You wanted to do it quickly, but the rule of six months was in front, you couldn't do it any other way, you put it in a bunch. There's an obvious point of touch, and one bad practice leads to another. How, then, is this a package of tax laws, and how could it be approached?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U56	Thank you. You're absolutely right. At the time, we were based on the fact that there would be six months between the adoption of the law and its entry into force, so that companies would have time to adapt to tax changes. I have to go over what I said before, but the difference is clear. While at that time all these amendments passed through an elementary round of coordination at government level, where all stakeholders, parties, ministries were able to defend, argue, supplement their positions, it did not take place at the end of 2016. Should the Riigikogu legally ban the so-called cluster bill? This is, I think, more of an analysis of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legal Affairs. We cannot take tax changes out of the other legal environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U57	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U58	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a more philological question. You have a word like 'in particular' in that bill. This assumes that there are a thousand reasons why the provisions of § 41 may not be fulfilled, but, above all, you will see the four reasons given in the wording you provide. What's that word doing there? In fact, it nullifies the whole idea that's in the text. You mention the reasons above all, but this leaves room for dozens and dozens of reasons why this six-month condition may not be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U59	Thank you. In the spring of 2015, all of us in this Chamber, the Social Democrats, the Central Party, the Reform Party and the members of the IRL, understood what law we are adopting. We understood that the state's message is six months between the adoption and entry into force of the tax changes. Predictability, stability, I think that all MPs (most likely you yourself, Mr Stalnukhin, including) then knew why it makes sense to put such a change into the tax administration law, for what purpose we are doing it. If you go to one word level, this debate makes no sense to me, because you broke the principle you formulated at the end of last year. If there's a desire to corrupt, there's always a reason. This was also demonstrated in December 2016. So there is no point in sticking to this one word.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U60	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U61	Good waitress! I very much agree with Mr Herkel that a new government came in 2015 and then political principles had to be changed. And now, at the end of 2016, the new government came in exactly the same way. So in this sense, it is important for the government to introduce new principles. But my question is whether you accidentally put together different things and whether it is reasonable and right to put them together like this. You did not mention one important tax change: from 1 January 2017 the increase in VAT on tourist accommodation facilities, which in fact has a significant impact on tourism business and in a positive direction. You also mentioned the progressive tax-free minimum, which, with certain exceptions, will apply from 1 January 2018, i.e. the adoption of the law and the entry into force of the law will in fact be one year apart. And it has a positive effect on 88% of people. So why did they put these things together like that? Is it even right to put such different things together like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U62	Tax relief does not directly affect the six-month rule. If the tax rate goes down for the taxpayer, the six-month rule does not apply. I think that every taxpayer will also be willing to pay less taxes on an hour's notice. You don't have to wait six months. As far as the exchange of the Government of the Republic is concerned, this is a very wrong assumption, which is a member of the Central Party Group, and as the Committee on Monetary Affairs sounded. The change in the composition of the Government of the Republic is not an argument to violate the six-month rule. It was a consciously established safeguard mechanism in 2015 for exactly the situations that arose at the end of last year. Just so it's not that when the government changes, he can make such changes in a week's time to keep his hat shut. That is why this rule is here, and you yourself, in opposition, voted in favour of this draft in 2015. I mean the Group of the Centre Party. It is, in fact, a safeguard mechanism to ensure that the tax environment is predictable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U63	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In general, you can understand why this proposed amendment is opposed to the current coalition when we talk about the IRL, which at one point was prepared to put the budget balance into the constitution. On the other hand, as a taxpayer, I am rather concerned about whether, in the future, there should not be six months, but a whole year, between receiving and entering into force, the taxes on tax cuts that affect me. I actually accept your opinion that the change of government compared to certain stability and security of the whole country and nation is not such a big reason to break the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U65	It was probably a point question, I think, or a comment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U66	Could this time be longer than six months?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U67	In 2015, we agreed with four groups that it could be six months. There was also some argument that the elections would be in March. This means that if the newly elected MPs and the new government are willing to make changes, the most reasonable time would be 1 January next year. Very many taxes have been introduced since 1 January. It was that logic back then. And the six-month rule was actually proposed by the companies themselves, the Chamber of Commerce, considering it to be a sufficient period for adapting to tax changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U68	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U69	Honourable initiators of the bill! I understand the political meaning of this bill, it does not raise questions in me, but it does in legal terms. In my opinion, the Riigikogu acted when it once adopted the text in force, very rationally, this rule is six months and, in certain cases, does not have to abide by the rule. After all, if anyone protests against the violation of this rule, the court will tell you what to do. This draft tabled does not change anything. The list is not exhaustive, it is not specific and it is essentially the same legal situation. So what's the point of changing the law? We'd better be honest and let's keep this law the way it is. Rather, the Committee on Monetary Affairs should deal with the ideas that came from the Chancellor of Justice and which, in essence, do not consider the six-month rule to be correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U70	Thank you. Dear colleague, you yourself voted in favour of this amendment in 2015 too, knowing very well what it means in substance and also legally. The so-called back doors described in the explanatory memorandum at the time were also known to entrepreneurs. If there is an emergency situation that requires urgent government or Riigikogu intervention, entrepreneurs will accept it. As good colleague Eiki knows very well, in November 2016, we did not have an earthquake, a natural disaster, the economy did not fall by 22% in the quarter. There was a slightly different situation in the Republic of Estonia, it was a perfectly normal and stable situation. This is beyond the understanding of businesses. And I also do not understand why, in a situation where unemployment is extremely low, wages are growing, the economy is growing, this rule is not being observed. Once again, the change of government is not an argument for breaking this rule.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U71	Eiki Nestor, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U72	You're still explaining to me the political side that I said I understand. I am talking about the legal side: nothing will change if this law is amended in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U73	Thank you. I think you understand both sides very well. As I said in my original speech, the Chancellor of Justice indicated that this paragraph should be formulated more strongly. Perhaps, then, the vigilantes would not get so hard on this section, which would provide more certainty for the future, that this rule would not be broken. It was his proposal. I don't know if Eiki Nestor wants to be in a coalition that goes to court with entrepreneurs every month. I don't think I do. This is uncomfortable and it does not make a very good impression on Estonia. Chamber of Commerce, businesses have brought legal action on the same six-month rule. In my opinion, tax laws should not be made in the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U74	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. The Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U75	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending § 41 of the Tax Act was discussed by the Finance Committee on 10 April, including. Kairi Sudakov, Chief Specialist of the Tax and Customs Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, was present. First of all, the representative of the initiators, who was also present at the court, explained the content of the draft. The Ministry of Finance, or the representative of the Government of the Republic, then announced why the Government of the Republic did not support it. Then there was a brief debate. As here, the same question was raised about apparent effects. I asked myself where it was seen and how to explain it. The explanation was that this paragraph really doesn't change anything. Then there was a brief mention that maybe it would cancel the law of this section if it didn't work at all. But the answer was that it actually works, we're based on it, and there's no good reason to give it up. There was also a brief discussion about the explanatory statement. If you will allow me, I will personally ask, rhetorically, of course, the Riigikogu's management how it is. I remember being returned to me in the previous composition of a bill, which I myself had prepared, but which did not correspond to the norm technique, all the points that the law requires of us were not unwritten. It wasn't in this case. So we talked about the explanatory statement. Procedural decisions were also adopted. The Bureau of the Riigikogu was invited to bring the bill to the hall today, 18 April. The committee president was appointed rapporteur and the proposal to reject the draft at first reading was voted on. This proposal was supported by 6 and 2 members of the Commission opposed. If I remember correctly, 1 was neutral. No, the abstentions, however, were not in favour of 6 and against 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U76	Since rhetorical questions are usually answered in context and so in this case, let's go to real questions. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U77	Thank you. Here's the real question. You said in your report that this paragraph works. Why don't you give me an example of that sentence? And in the case of this bunch of taxes that was adopted here at the end of last year, did this paragraph work or did it not work? The six-month rule has been broken anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U78	Thank you for that question. Colleagues, we both know how difficult times the Committee on Monetary Affairs will face in the next five weeks. I am probably the main rapporteur for the Commission on this board. In any case, I am not starting any debate on inter-party issues here. It's a road to nowhere, and that's why I'm not starting it today. I could say that please read the letter signed by the Ministry of Finance, Sven Sester, where this justification exists. But for the record, I say that we did not discuss it in this context, as the question sounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U79	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U80	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Unfortunately, I couldn't be in that hearing at the time. Would you please mention again what the government's arguments were against this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U81	Here in this letter, the opinion of the Government of the Republic has four main sections. The first paragraph clarifies what the initiator, i.e. the content of the draft law, offers. The second paragraph refers to the Act amending the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other laws, which entered into force on 31 December 2016, which excluded the reduction of the social tax rate by half a percentage point, and it is said that this was only an exception, when the The above law has also been assessed by the Chancellor of Justice, considering it constitutional. Now I quote this letter: '... The addition of § 41 in the manner set out in the draft would rather have a seeming effect and would be impractical. From the point of view of the Chancellor of Justice, it follows that, in exceptional and justified cases, in the event of constitutional interpretation, which takes into account both the public interest and the rights and interests of the taxable person and the legitimate expectation, it is possible to leave less than six months between the adoption and entry into force of amendments to the law. ' The fourth paragraph is this summation, there is no real reference to the argumentation here. The main thing is that the situation can be resolved by the law in force. That's what's being offered. I'm going to add one more time, don't take it as a bully: the word 'in particular', if you call it anything else after that, really doesn't fit in the law. For example, how can you tell when a cleaning lady is instructed to clean the hallway first? How am I supposed to understand that? Doesn't he have to clean the rest of the rooms? If so, what is this 'especially' put there for anyway? So, yes, this bill really has a seeming effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U82	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U83	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. You have just said here before the Riigikogu that the Committee on Monetary Affairs will face difficult times in the coming weeks. I agree with this, because six new taxes will have to be adopted within six working weeks, and some of them will probably also have to be introduced as a separate tax law. As a rule, they also raise the tax burden, because the coalition wants EUR 214 million of additional tax revenue from it, as the forecast shows. I just have this question for you: could you, as Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, promise us at least that these new drafts will reach the Committee on Monetary Affairs' desk at least during the first or second working week of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U84	Thank you. That's a good question. I would say that I myself hope so, and the corresponding messages have been handed over to the Ministry of Finance. In any case, we are not going to violate any practice, let alone the provisions of the law. When I told you it was going to be hard times, it was a joke because that's what our job is. If we have to, we'll sit here night after night if there's anything we need to do or stop. It's more like a busy time, but I hope the Ministry of Finance hears that message from here. We hope to have most of these important things in the first week of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U85	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, since you have a little bit of linguisticism here, I would like to ask you this point for clarification. In the explanatory memorandum to the earlier draft, where the list of cases could violate the six-month rule, the word 'foreall' is used. Is 'fore all' better than'most'?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U87	Thank you. If you're referring to an explanatory statement, that's where you can write anything. I know that rarely has things happened where the law has been passed so numbly and so foggyly that in order to understand what the legislator has wanted to say, a judge must also look at, for example, the explanatory statement. But in general, we adopt laws, not explanatory notes. I don't want to get into the papers right now, but if you took that word from the explanatory statement, then yes, there's a place for that word. This 'in particular' could also be in the explanatory memorandum, I mean the current bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U88	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have stressed in your report several times that the word 'especially' is not suitable for the text. But I believe and hope that you do not want to deny the right to make the law more precise and better to the opposition. Wouldn't it be better to finish the first reading and to simply exclude it from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U90	Thank you. Dear Krista! I'm here since 1999. For once, if I had heard such a suggestion from the coalition when I was in opposition, I have been there most of the time. Somehow, sweethearts, you have a very nice law, but a few words are bad here, so let's fix it and let's get on with it. I mean, I don't know where we are right now. Probably in a political paradise where everyone loves each other and cooperates. I'd like to move in that direction myself. However, current practice and practices say that if there is enough time to prepare for the whole text of the law, there are six lines, if you can consider everything, go through all the necessary procedures, even linguistic control, etc., it makes no sense. Is that word inside or is not, or is not, introduced into it for a hundred reasons why a law may not be adhered to - it will remain such an amendment with a seeming effect. So now I would not make such a proposal, all the more so because we have the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U91	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your last speech gives the impression that you have been the victim of bullying, and it is as if you do not want to take any of the proposals into account. But I would like to clarify that in the Republic of Estonia, the chairman of the Monetary Commission promises himself that the explanatory statement can put anything that anyone wants. Will you stick to that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U93	Thank you. I would disprove the malicious accusation that just sounded on this matter. I will tell you frankly from this courtroom that you personally can write an explanatory statement of absolutely everything you want. More importantly, you can write absolutely everything in the text of the bill. The question is that it creates certain feelings, emotions, and assessments within us. I gave it my opinion. You have the right to write anything you want. We live in a democratic country. And I have the right to judge it according to my own judgment. Let's agree that this is the best thing, that it's not like everyone's going in line and doing the same thing. I don't think you, as a proponent of democracy, could ever support such a thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, above all, I would remind you that we are currently discussing a draft of the round of questions and answers 391. The next questioner is Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U95	Thank you. Good waitress! If I thought I was allowed everything, I'd say that what you're representing there right now is pohuism, but I'm not saying it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I am trying to put the same idea to the point. You are essentially justifying the Commission's behaviour in order not to stop this first reading, in the fact that you have been persecuted for a long time. Is this a question of the dignity of you as the head of the Commission, and you can allow yourself, within the framework of the Commission's presentation, to live on a personal basis against Parliament, against the majority of Parliament and against the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U96	I will not say thank you for this question. I say my personal position: with the peasants who use filth, and in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, I do not speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, Without prejudice to the right of all of us to express ourselves, I suggest you stay at the level of this hall as well as your lexie. There are no further questions for you, Mr. Chairman of the Commission. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U98	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! In the past, in preparation for the debate on today's point, we in the group felt that everything was clear and perhaps there was no need for a speech. However, the current presence of the chairman of the Monetary Commission inspired me to speak. When the current coalition came to power, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas promised several times that proposals and ideas from the opposition would now be taken into account, as opposed to the previous coalition, and that they would be taken seriously. Prime Minister, you could say, actually urged the opposition to speak out. Now our colleagues have done so with one bill. They have proposed a successful amendment, a successful text, in the view of the Free Party Group on the current law. And I just want to repeat from here the important truth that, you know, the opposition has the right to make this kind of proposals, whether or not the coalition likes it. My good colleague, Krista Aru, rightly said that when the question is in one word, we will deal with this draft, as the draft is being dealt with, we will discuss it. At first glance, it really seems that perhaps the word can be replaced or deleted without the thought being greatly damaged. But what we have now heard from the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs was, unfortunately, exactly that we are now in the coalition, now we can. There were, I daresay, such vengeful notes. And since we are both professional teachers with the chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I think that this is actually an example of school bullying, which the former Minister of Education highlighted on the issue, also relevant here. It's a little bit like I've been bullied at school, but now I've grown up, strong and grown up, and now I'm bullying others. That's not a polite attitude. This is not the right attitude, nor is it a polite attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U99	The general principles of the draft law will continue to be discussed by Priit Sibul, representing the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U100	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, No one has persecuted me, at least not from this hall, and I'm not going to get revenge on anyone, either, because there's no reason for it. But I thought I would say a few words, however, why the IRL Group and I do not support this particular draft. For my part, I'm saying why I think it's seeming. First of all, I'm quoting Remo, who's here saying "boo-boo-boo." Remo himself had such arguments that the hat went off. I don't think it's worth seeing any tragedy. I am quite convinced that neither the current Minister for Finance nor the IRL Group will ever come into this Chamber with a draft that will repeal this legal provision. Why, however, do we not specifically support the Reform Party's proposal to introduce the additional clauses that are currently in the explanatory memorandum into the law? In my opinion, it seems to me that, in reality, we can also change this law in this Chamber if we want to. The question is, do we respect this principle? I think we've had it so far. It is true that one time this Riigikogu hall here has been mistaken against this rule on one occasion. And that is, when we actually replaced one measure in the case of labour tax measures with another, and I believe it to be more effective. There are certainly political differences here, different views and different attitudes between political parties, but I am convinced that this measure, which was implemented by the coalition at the end of the year, is more justified in terms of reducing labour taxes. And when it came to the Chancellor of Justice, the Chancellor of Justice did not contest this particular provision. It is, of course, a bad thing when entrepreneurs have to go to court. I do not think this practice should be implemented. But in this case, it would be hard to justify or to find a reason. I dare say that no one in this Chamber has the will to unduly misuse the idea that we have put into the law. And in the case of this particular draft, I say that we can stay in bed with the laws and dimming or fine-tuning, as they used to say. In my opinion, this is also the case with this draft. I did not imagine that this could also be dealt with in the opposition, but it seems that it can, although there would certainly be much more substantive things. I will conclude by saying that we really do not support this draft. This is because the law can be amended. It makes no sense for us to put all ideas, words and letters into a law that we can change either way, because it does not change the Constitution. The Constitution states when and in what form laws will be passed and when they will be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U101	As a representative of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U102	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I think that, in fact, Remo Holsmer introduced this bill quite well and quite fluently, but the debate revealed that not enough for everyone. Let's take a look at this text. This six-month rule has been specified here by some specific circumstances which may justify its rejection, indeed using the word 'in particular'. These are then the measures necessary to prevent tax fraud and the sudden change in financial, economic, environmental or security situations. These are specific things and the principle of analogy applies to the law. In this sense, 'in particular' is an 'open list', which has been used and can be used by law. What happened on the 10th day of the Finance Committee, I didn't see, I was on a mission. But I am still quite amazed at the presentation by the chairman of the committee. After all, he actually mocked the word here and spoke clearly about how he had been bullied and, as a result, he was tempted against it. It is the Commission's duty to debate such words, that is fine-tuning. That is fine-tuning, Priit, that the law must be made more precise in case his understanding is unclear. Most of Estonia actually needs the jeweler's work, not the ax work that the current government is working on. Texts, regulations and measures need to be more precise all the time. This, in particular, is currently a regulation. We could, I suggest, finish the first reading and use the words 'analogy' and 'analogous' instead of 'especially' so that this wording is open. Let's try it this way. Of course it's fine-tuning. But I think the coalition wants that ax tune right now. Priit Sibul confessed that yes, we broke the law only once, but that's not why we're going to make amends. No, we have an ax job, we do it, we don't do it, we've done it once, we've done what your business is. If there is a confession, then the more we can kindly agree to make this text acceptable, credible. That would be our code of conduct for the future. Is this six-month rule an ideal option at all? Unfortunately, we can't quite write in black and white into the law this six-month rule. It was indeed a response to taxpayers, knowing that this would create problems in different situations. We have sometimes been in a situation where we are very busy with the amendment of the law, and in this sense it is not possible to write'six months' in black and white and that's all. But we all knew what we were thinking when we wrote "six months." We knew we'd make a commitment, but we never knew the special circumstances so accurately that we couldn't go any other way. It's just a matter of our conscience. It turns out that it was taken as a conscience, even as a barrier, but it was decided to break the law. What else I want to say today, also under the influence of the previous item, is the level of political debate in general. There was a lot of looking at the past on both points: you too, then too, but that was the same. It should be removed, the focus should be on the provision. The provision was not mentioned at the previous point, nor was it mentioned at that point. We should talk about the measure, its effectiveness and not point the finger. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U103	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U104	The chairman of the committee made it clear that I have been here since 1999 and you know how bad I have been, now you have too. That has nothing to do with it. In this law, the sufferer is not even the one you want revenge on. The sufferer is the taxpayer. This has nothing to do with a word of honor! On the previous point, Mrs Kangro said that you are now in the opposition that you have the right to say anything at all, you must remain silent. In fact, my story was only about one regulation, its effectiveness. I was in the same position even when we were in the coalition with both the IRL and the IRL. This measure is bad, it should not be extended. The problem is serious, but the measure is bad. All I talked about was this, but I got a face on a party sign that I never used, and that I'm in opposition now, and I have to have another position, or I have to be quiet at all. I have the same position that we had at the time, in three departments of government. However, I would also say that the opposition also said that there is no difference between clusters and we thought that something would change when Ratas gained power. You know, that's not the argument again. I can say, with my hand in my heart, that I have been willing to criticise, essentially, almost every draft of the opposition that has been tabled and to which I have opposed. I have. I have never opposed technologically, but it has not been money, it has been a bad measure, or it has already been a similar thing. I have never praised the rejection of anything just for the author's sake, but I admit that such mistakes have been made. But to say that we should bring this past here as the subject of debate, is not beautiful. Similarly, it is not nice to give an example of this previous cluster, as if it didn't matter here. Remo made it very clear that at the time, everything was done according to the book. The cluster was an emergency solution because the government was prevented from taking up work, and it was not a quick amendment of the law, but a six - year amendment of the law. After all, the second law was essentially changed from day to day, this cluster was brought here without coordination circles. There were coordination circles back then. Then there was a serious procedure: the Commission was given papers in due time, talked to interest groups, the Ministry had a coordination round. There was a need, and it was done. But it was also really clear that we, the government that came to power on the basis of the elections, were being tried to stop it from working in any way. That was when the cluster was made, but before there were coordination circles, people talked to interest groups, the Riigikogu was allowed to process it and the law was not amended. In 2016, the law was amended on the move and several times. The draft car tax was amended four times: four options went through before it was withdrawn. So, in any case, the power to carry this bill forward in substance, because no one has said that the six - month rule would not be correct with some concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U105	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U106	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Well, what I can't say is, once again, my Russian mentality has failed me, my desire to speak honestly to you and to say what you mean in simple words. I haven't said a word that we're going to do what you did now. I was simply reminding you of the difficulties that the opposition has always faced. The way you're twisting it, even what's going on around this question right now... I was sitting there thinking about what it reminds me of, and then this association came up. In the 18th century, Prince Potemkin travelled along southern Ukraine and reached Crimea. He was with the entire nobility: an enormous number of princes, countes, etc. Sometimes Potemkin needed to have fun with his wife, and then the tent was set up and he hid in that tent with another countess. When the result was achieved on the so-called personal front, the cannons fired. So they signaled that the Knyaz was still a strong man, he still knows how and can. And a French ambassador once heard these guns say, "What a rocker." With regard to this draft, I would also say what the same apparent effect of the kikekii. If you want the answers to be dry and extremely balanced, it would be essential, above all, for the questions to be cold and balanced. If you ask emotional questions, you have the right to receive emotional answers. And as a teacher, Andres, this has nothing to do with making it happen. You've known me for many years about the work of our special committee. Are you saying from this experience that I'm the one who's gonna kick somebody's ass? I'm probably the last person to do that. I spoke now as a representative of my group, but rather personally. As a representative of a political group, I repeat: this draft law has such a large seeming effect, and I accept the word'sighted' that our group does not find a way to support it. Even reducing the word 'especially' from there doesn't fix this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U107	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U108	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, As is often said here, I did not intend to speak. I really didn't intend to speak, but by listening to this cap and recalling quite a number of times, where the coalition's representatives point the finger at reform parties, that you, my dears, were the ones who did it before, I remembered my mother, the deceased, the golden saying: 'If the other person is a pig, you don't have to be a pig. ' Dear coalition, if you think that something has been done wrong, do not justify that someone has done wrong before, but justify your steps rationally and without blaming others. First of all, that's what I wanted to say. Secondly, in our entire society, and this is reflected in this hall, too, an extremely oppressive, breathtaking atmosphere has developed: there are orthodox truths, and anyone who can, can or dare to say anything against these orthodox truths is immediately bad. They must be struck into the earth, they must be disgraced, they must be tagged, for they have dared to raise thorns against orthodox truths. That is what we are seeing today in this very debate. And part of it is that there is only one truth, and in this Chamber it is the truth of the coalition; the opposition must not have any claim to the truth. Shut up! What are you interrupting, we want to run the country! In our opposition, too, we want to lead the country, don't forget that. The opposition and coalition are like a bird that must have two wings to fly. Let us accept that this other wing is also waving and keeping the bird nicely in the air and helping to reach its goal. Those were the thoughts I had when I listened to this caption. And basically, our group supports this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U109	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U110	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu, especially the respected opposition, do not shut up for God's sake! That's all I need. In my opinion, the example is that the opposition is not silent, including this draft. But here's the point. I'm saying about this debate that I agree with all those who have resented it when the finger points out that you did before. I don't think that's a legitimate thing to say either. But on this draft, I say this: I believe that the Riigikogu once made a very sensible decision, and this is a very understandable text. Perhaps today we have a legal space in which tax laws cannot be amended so that this period is shorter than six months, but exceptions are possible. And now the question is, what are these possible exceptions? Perhaps if someone wants to change these tax laws within a shorter period, he needs to explain why he is doing so. That is what the text of the current law says. If I remember correctly, it uses the word 'generally'. This text, which has been brought before us, does not change the situation. And that is well known to the draft authors. They, too, do not bring in any specific measure of GDP, unemployment or whatever, because they know that it is not real. You can't write that law any better. That's right, it's the logic of the law. Also, in the case of the current law, the right to go to court is that the reasons why this six-month rule has not been respected are not strong enough. The court will decide whether or not you were or weren't. And if this text were to become a law, the situation would legally be exactly the same. Perhaps this legislative text will not change the current legal space by an inch. There is, of course, a political side: the opposition must not be silent and must also put forward such drafts in order to bring this matter to its attention again. But there is another side to the political side. The government that came to power last autumn had a choice as to whether it could fight for not doing anything, or whether it could fight for doing something. And believe me, every government would choose this second chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-18_U111	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 391 at first reading. I therefore put to the vote to reject the draft proposal of the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal and 37 were against. 10 MPs did not take part in the vote. The proposal was supported and the draft falls outside the procedure. Dear Riigikogu, today's session is closed. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.45 a.m.
