ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 8th working week of the V plenary session. I wish you all a beautiful English day. We also welcome the participants in the Native Language Day Olympiad who have come to visit us today. Do colleagues have a desire to pass on drafts or enquiries? Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U2	Mr President! Good people's representatives! Happy English Day! 'Can't the tongue of this land in the wind of a song, as it ascends to heaven, seek eternity for itself? " asked Kristjan Jaak Peterson. I think it is our duty to do our utmost to do this every day, both by speaking our beautiful mother tongue and by taking care of it, so that our mother tongue can really rise up to the abyss and seek eternity for itself. There are six questions for the Minister of Education and Research to be asked by seven members of the Free Party Group. They focus on the development strategy of the Estonian language. The development strategy is known to be in place until the end of this year. The interim report set out a number of new very specific tasks that should be addressed. Among these new tasks, I believe that the very important objective is to extend the programme of fellow nationalists to support our diasporas, which have changed a great deal. It is essential that young Estonians living abroad maintain their contact with the Estonian language, Estonian culture and our educational world. We have six questions, which also concern the formation of a new Language Council, we hope that it will go very well , and the completion of a new language strategy, which should be in place in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U3	Are there any further inquiries or drafts to be handed over? No, it's not. On behalf of the management board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, the management board decides on its further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, today's only item on the agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on administrative reform initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 376. I ask Jüri Adams, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair for the initiator's part!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Free Party submitted a draft 376 as a draft amendment to the Administrative Reform Act. Its content is not very novel, we have initiated such a change several times before. The point is that we do not particularly like the law on administrative reform, which is the basis for the administrative reform that is currently taking place. We believe that this should be improved for practical purposes. How to fix how far it should go can be disputed. At the moment, our idea is to give the Government of the Republic a wider opportunity to act in the situation in which it has become involved. In the Commission, we have heard absolutely the right criticism that this draft is no longer very topical. That's right, because when we drafted and handed over the bill a number of weeks ago, the government had no plans for forced alliances. The bill doesn't make it to the hall right now. First of all, they are waiting for the government's position, and once the government's position comes, the draft submitted in relation to urgent matters is sometimes obsolete. The Commission proposed to vote the draft out of the procedure at first reading. I suppose that's gonna happen, I don't think there's gonna be a miracle. But nevertheless, I want to look at this topic a little bit more widely. The main problem is how the government of Jüri Ratas completes the ongoing administrative reform. Members of the Free Party want this to happen with as few negative consequences as possible, with as little tension as possible. We assume that the subsequent Riigikogu formations will have to address the consequences of the current administrative reform. One objective could be to minimise these improvements and to make them easy to carry out. As for the law on administrative reform, I was, of course, fully aware that the Riigikogu had been transformed into a rubber stamp before I was elected to this Riigikogu. I had said that many times. But when I experienced how the draft law on administrative reform actually took place, I was struck by a shock that I have not yet overcome and probably will not. The issue is not only that the opposition was not able to discuss why this reform was needed in the first place and what methods are there to do it, but it was also not given to the members of the government coalition in the Riigikogu. Their attempts to initiate a debate and to raise proposals to amend the draft were also cut through. If such a thing is done, the matter will not fall off the agenda. The question has remained, and our draft largely serves the purpose which was not achieved by the government coalition at that time in terms of rubber stamping. It is not right to believe that there is no need to deal with this issue afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U6	Excuse me, honorable waitress. Dear members of the Riigikogu, this certainly very interesting and important conversation that is taking place in this Chamber has become so loud that even I find it very difficult to hear Jüri Adams from a distance of a metre. If you guys have your own conversations, you can do it outside the hall. Please, let us respect Mrs Jüri Adams, who is trying to report this bill to you. Thank you. Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U7	Thank you, Mr President. I start with the fact that the reform of the administrative arrangements of the Republic of Estonia so far was probably the best at the end of the first period of independence. It was prepared in 1938 and, if I am not mistaken in a few months, it entered into force on April 1, 1939. At that time, some 250 rural areas were created alongside cities and towns. It was not a merger of municipalities; it was rather a restructuring. The number of municipalities was smaller than before the reform, but not much lower. This division of administration lasted a long time. In the meantime, occupations came along, but the occupations kept to it. The next major chain of changes began in 1945 when, for reasons unknown to me, the Soviet authorities decided that the order of the municipalities of the end of the independence period of the Republic of Estonia needed to be changed. New units were created in the municipalities, village councils. These village councils were formed in such a way that about five village councils were made on the two parishes of their time, three in the larger parish and two in the smaller parish. The number of village councils reached 650. From that time on, the occupation of Estonia began such a offense, which is hard to imagine. Almost every few years, local administrative arrangements changed until the Soviet authorities calmed down by about 1965. There were 15 districts and 300 municipalities in Estonia, of which the rural municipalities were called village councils. Once we had had had the opportunity to regain independence, the 1992 programme of action of the Mart Laar Government, among other things, provided for an administrative-territorial reform, but for a number of reasons this was not the case. Why? Firstly, the term of office of this government was very short. There was certainly no human and spirit resources to carry it out either. Another main reason, in my opinion, was that, at the same time, there was a constitutional property reform and several other reforms, which were technically carried out by the same village councils, which were then renamed municipalities. It wasn't rational to do two things at once. The next attempt was made during the IX Riigikogu, when Mart Laar's second government began to prepare for a change in administrative arrangements. The foundation was the division of Estonia into parishes, not into ancient parishes, but into church parishes, and not into Orthodox churches, but into Lutheran parishes. This principle was probably the most rational in general, although the division into parishes has been very different for us. There are large parishes in East Estonia. In the Middle and New Ages, there were no relatively small church parishes such as Läänemaa. Later, various other developments took place. The most important thing was the emergence of new cities and towns after the railways had been built in Estonia in the last quarter of the 19th century. Nearly all railway stations were surrounded by cities or towns. Even later, mining towns and military cities were added. In this situation it would certainly not have been possible to rely solely on the principle of the historical parish. What happened next, I don't know. Maybe one of the Reform Party's own historical researchers or somebody else will look into it. But the issue of administrative reform became, to a large extent, the internal affairs of the Reform Party. At first, Siim Kallas was one of the biggest advocates of the idea of uniting rural municipalities, but after a while the principle that the merger of rural municipalities in Estonia must be voluntary remained. It never accelerated until there was a change towards the concept of the current administrative reform law, that it should nevertheless be combined using the force of the law. The current administrative reform law certainly has its strengths. One good example is the form of the golden handshake: all people who receive their income in the local government have been given the possibility of a smooth transition as possible. It is certainly also positive to reward local activity with public funding. Perhaps the most unsuccessful concept has been the writing of a number of 5,000 into the law. I am not saying that this population is necessarily wrong. If you believe in demographics and economic geographers, it may even be the right number. But maybe I'm not an expert at this. However, I am certain that writing it into the law did not make sense. It is likely that the same objective could have been pursued without the provision of a law. Mystification of this number has led to a number of negative consequences that could probably have been prevented. The second issue is the so-called voluntary nature of mergers. I think there's a pretty alien legal fiction behind this. I do not know who came up with this idea from the Reform Party or who introduced it in this form, but administrative reform has never been done voluntarily. Administrative reforms are objects of general interest and, as such, they also need acceptance by society as a whole, by the whole country and by all partners. I would like to make an example of the fact that ten years ago, in Latvia, a municipality reform was carried out in terms of its results relatively similar to that of ours. Once our parishes were converted into new and larger administrative units called the novads of Latvian. This reform was carried out without control numbers, without volunteering, and the result has been very good. In Latvia, there has been no need to reverse any of these new municipalities. An example of how much more sensible reform can be done is therefore that we have right across the border. What do we have to rely on now? Currently, a number of so-called voluntary mergers have taken place or are taking place in Estonia. For them, it is not yet clear how successful one or the other merger has been and whether they need to be reversed in the future. Given how and who has decided on these mergers, it can be believed that this need will arise in some parts of the future. I'm sure there's a lot of bad and crazy connections. As Jüri Ratas's government coalition has decided to continue under the administrative reform scheme of the previous government, the question is whether the next step that will come in May is making compulsory mergers or finding better solutions in specific cases, including the fact that some of the municipalities will not be merged. We don't know that, but it is very important to stress right now that the ambassadors of the Free Party want as little trouble as possible to happen in May. Rather, there should be no additions, rather than unifications and future circles. Finally, I will explain the question on which the Free Party Group has tabled its draft. In fact, some of the Soviet village councils that were later turned into rural municipalities have been those that have no historical basis at all. Right now, they're running out of the boundaries of their historical parishes. A good example is Puka parish, one part of which goes to Rõngu parish, one part goes to Sangaste parish and perhaps something to Otepää parish. There are other examples. I think that, at least, the historicly unreasoned change in the administrative boundaries of Soviet times is a very appropriate time. This is also a question of what we are beginning to call the villages themselves. There are several aspects to the game, in addition to what I mentioned earlier. There have been questions about the fact that we have had various newcomers around the cities outside the official borders of the cities. For example, in Sauga rural municipality, Pärnu County, they are quite typical of the fact that in Soviet times people were given gardening cooperatid plots since the second half of the 1970s. They have created many new settlements: during their independence, small tool sheds of their own time have been built into residential homes used throughout the year. But what's important is that these people are basically part of the city. They want it because their children go to school in the city and their jobs are in the city. The more we can fix these things this spring and summer, the better. Like any legislative amendment and any reform, this reform will certainly have negative consequences. I'm out of time. If anyone asks me questions about their consequences, I would have something to say in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U8	Thanks to the waitress! You have questions too. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U9	Thank you. Honourable waitress, your conversations were very nice, but I would ask you, however, to limit yourself to the content of this draft rather than to discuss other matters here. You said nicely that this bill is no longer very topical. Well, that's very soft. This draft concerns the activities by which the government was to be brought to an end by 15 February at the latest, i.e. it is essentially a 'come to us' bill. I can't imagine how you would describe it if it were adopted as a law. Moreover, the Free Party submitted this draft on 25 January, three weeks before the deadline, when the government had to have all the decisions taken. During that time, it should have been processed in the Riigikogu, passed by law, announced and enforced. This was 25 days after the voluntary accession process had already ended. My question is this: do you think this is in line with good legislative practice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U10	I think basically you answered your question yourself when you mentioned all their facts and figures. As for the good practice of lawmaking, Mr Kiisler, in addition to the horror that your government coalition did with the law on administrative reform, everything else has been angelic since then.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U11	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U12	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I will talk about this as a representative of the Commission soon, but I will ask you anyway. Your report ran through so the administrative reform shouldn't continue because it would be a nightmare. There was also a change in administrative organisation, a change in administrative distribution and a change in administrative territoriality. What kind of thing isn't supposed to go on? What is this horror? Because the things that your bill talks about, of course, thank you also for introducing the history that has been sounded in the presentation! In particular, the administrative-territorial part of this reform, i.e. the first stage, is the smallest part of the reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U13	It is very difficult to answer such a question in detail. Yes, I would like to see a miracle happen and, for some reason, I do not know why the implementation of the current administrative reform law would end. But I don't think it's realistic. It seems to me that the current government coalition, as well as the majority in this hall, have decided to bring this matter to an end. So there's barely anything going for me and my fight buddies. Our main wish is two things, I'll repeat them again. Firstly, that there should be as few changes to the administrative arrangements as possible in this remaining period, which would need to be reorganized afterwards, because they do not meet the wishes of the local population or because there are other reasons. And the second wish, I repeat, is for failure to rethink decisions to be as painless as possible. In my opinion, this is not much to ask for, and it should not be unrealistic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U14	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U15	Thank you, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely agree that the administrative reform has already failed in the bud and that it is, as you said, a horror. I certainly also support the points that are set out in your draft and which should have been taken into account when local governments join or merge. However, I did not understand the Free Party's position on this whole thing. It is as if it turned out from your speech that administrative reform must not be carried out on a voluntary basis, that it must be forced to do so. At the same time, you also said that you do not believe that the municipalities who have not joined should be forced to join. What's the Free Party's position, after all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U16	Thank you for your question. Can we say that the administrative reform has failed? I'm not quite sure. I think there is a great deal to blame for the reform, but it certainly has not failed in the sense that it is not happening at all. This is happening now and will be completed regardless of my or your or someone's third or fourth critical views. This is my starting point on this issue. If we ask what we can do in this area, the Free Party Group is currently spending a great deal of energy so that the wishes of the rural municipalities, parishes or villagers who have been excluded from various attentions can be transferred to the government as well as to this Riigikogu. We have had quite a few questions on this subject. However, the issue of violence and volunteering is, in a way, a demagogic issue. I am certainly not in favour of such violence as in the Soviet anecdote that one leads and the rest puke. At the same time, I do not consider the decisions of people who care less about the future of a relatively non-representative country to be correct, which are currently dominated by a large number of cartel parties in the prevailing municipalities. It would probably have been possible to carry out the reform in a relatively conventional way, as was the case in Latvia. What is strange is that, legally, the 1938 and 1939 reform was a forced reform, and it was launched by President Päts' decision. But I haven't read the documents that confirm that it was somehow very unpleasantly imposed. Of course, there were some minorities back then who did not agree with one thing or another. Later there was a number of change of names or giving third names, but in 1939 and 1940 there would have been no numerous and influential movement of the people that wanted to reverse the parish borders of Päts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U17	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In my opinion, one of the worst consequences of this reform is the emergence of a number of such geographically incomprehensible, absurd-shaped municipalities, and the historical identity of entire regions is also ignored. For the first example, the so-called remnant of Järva municipality, which is beginning to extend from the border with Tapa to the border with Põltsamaa, is suitable. Another example is the drying-up of Läänemaa, which is not the county that is left. What ways of correcting errors you see here and how, by allowing exceptions to the draft, would the Government of the Republic help to solve some of the problems that exist upstairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U19	The draft of the Free Party Group still refers only to the phase of compulsory annexation of rural municipalities. Unreasonable decisions born during the voluntary accession phase are not covered by this draft. In Estonia, at least since the end of the first period of independence, there has been a general understanding that local government units must be compact. They must not in any way be very stretched out or made up of pieces of separation. On the other hand, we have experience since Soviet times that Kohtla-Järve, as an administrative unit, consists of a whole series of separate pieces. It is still unclear to me whether it has justified itself, what the point is, and whether they should perhaps all be transformed into separate units. I think our culture does not allow us to make decisions that our history does not support. Theoretically, of course, it is also possible to conceive of municipalities, where, for example, one of the ingredients is the city of Tallinn, the other part is Ruhnu Island and the third part, I don't know, one of the municipalities of Võrumaa. But I'm afraid it's gonna be quite incomprehensible in terms of our political culture and everything else. It is often imagined that the main purpose of municipalities is to provide services. But that's not what this is about. The provision of services could be organised even if there were no municipalities in Estonia. This does not necessarily require them. It is also possible to involve local people in decision-making in a variety of ways, and this does not have to be done exactly as the local government laws require. In the current era of many opportunities for mobility and the Internet, many of these things can be organised differently from a technical point of view, which in the past were the only possible local government centres. In summary, I would like to say that I do not share the government's view that the administrative reform will result in the delegation of very many tasks from Tallinn's central government ministries to local governments. It is likely that the result will be the opposite, although many now live in the blue-eyed hope that things will go differently. Obviously, the issues of cultural and local peculiarities will be the most important issues of content for municipalities and local movements in the coming decades. All other things can be resolved in a variety of other ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U20	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U21	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good George! The schedule of the administrative reform on the website of the Ministry of Finance shows that the government is operating in substance until 15 July. I still don't understand that logic. He has now made proposals for decisions after 15 May when the government has presented its views. In my opinion, there is time for opt-out decisions and their implementation. However, one of the weaknesses of the administrative reform is the name problem. What kind of assessment do you make of the activities of the Council and its impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U22	There is, of course, time to make exceptions. The question is whether there is sufficient political will to make reasonable exceptions. In fact, I would use the word pair'reasonable solutions' because 'exception' is also a term in the context of the administrative reform law and I would not use it. Since, in my opinion, the number of 5000 is not reasonable, smaller or larger municipalities are not justified in obtaining exemption status. Last night we heard a question-and-answer round here, which we have heard correctly several times. Indeed, the current government has also implemented the law on administrative reform in so far as the members of the government, and probably the Prime Minister, do not consider it sympathetic or reasonable. They have fulfilled this but, at the same time as the other side, have encouraged the municipalities assigned to the coercive merger to say no and to state the reasons why the coercive merger should be abandoned. How it's really gonna happen, I don't know. Under the Ministry of Finance, the super ministry has built up a wide range of activities that have nothing to do with public finances. It has been hired with very little experience of government and reform, but the more pretentious and eloquent people, which I consider to be one of the unfortunates of our time. I call on all of you that, if we ever have the opportunity to make more sense of the obviously unsuccessful forms of the current regime, let us release the Ministry of Finance from these tasks which are not his own.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U23	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U24	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I will first quickly correct your false claim that Latvia was a stage of voluntary accession. According to the law, the majority of municipalities voluntarily joined because it was known that there would be a forced merger anyway. The two municipalities did not do so voluntarily, went to the Supreme Court, lost there and were forced to join. But my question is about this particular bill. If your draft were to enter into force as a law, it would mean that the criteria for initiating the merger would be changed. The government started the merger a month ago. What would happen if this bill became the law now? The government has made its decisions in accordance with the law in force a month ago, but you are saying that we are now changing the criteria on which it was supposed to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U25	Thank you for the clarification. As far as Latvia is concerned, I am not much of an expert. My knowledge comes mainly from the same road trip to Vilnius as you were. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu also met with representatives of the Latvian Parliament there. I created my picture mainly on the basis of their information. If you know better, that's good. Perhaps you will find the time and energy to write to the Estonian public a reasonable overview of what happened in Latvia. I think that would still be appropriate. However, if this miracle were to happen so that our bill would become a law, nothing would get worse than that. It is likely that some activities involving a playful element could be avoided and that the Prime Minister and ministers would have more discretion to make sensible decisions. Although this bill does not guarantee that ministers will necessarily make sensible decisions, there is some hope that after the change of the government coalition, things have become more free and sensible. However, as the reason for rigid compliance with the administrative reform law is, in my opinion, the requirement of the IRL Group or party to cling to it, it seems that this is the price of the coalition at the moment. Well, what are you gonna do? Of course, it might also be possible for you to reconsider and consider how wisely you have behaved in your time or now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U26	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U27	Thank you. Mr. Adams! The last comment was, of course, interesting. The government currently has the same party to whom you attributed rigidity in carrying out the administrative reform, but you nevertheless expressed the opinion that this rigidity in the change of government might disappear. But it is, of course, interesting to listen to you in general. There was this place that sounded really interesting. You said, "I guess my ear didn't cheat, "that after what Siim Kisler or rather his party has done, your conduct has in any case been angelic. Can you explain what you were thinking? What is your angelic spirit and the criminality of Siim Kisler's party? Or did I really hear you wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U28	I think you heard right. But if you give me a chance to explain it, thank you very much! I haven't had that chance very often. First of all, Mr. Ligi, there are a lot of things I have to be honest about: I don't know. As I said before, it is not at all clear to me what the role of the Reform Party has been in our history of planning administrative reforms. I also do not know how the current law on administrative reform was achieved under the leadership of the Reform Party. And I don't know what the role of the IRL has been. As far as your direct question is concerned, I would argue that the way in which your government coalition pushed through the current administrative reform law in the Riigikogu was, in my opinion, so undemocratic and so disgusting that it is not conceivable that any action that attempts to mitigate its negative consequences could be further criticised. Angelism is, of course, a figure. I'm afraid I don't have wings, nor do you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U29	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U30	Thank you. There are two principles colliding here: on one side there is a requirement of 5000 inhabitants and on the other there is the integrity of the historic parish, which unfortunately has not been taken as a basis for administrative reform. I understand that granting the government the right of derogation means that in some places where 5 000 do not come close together, but more or less there is the integrity of the historical parish, this can be done by the municipality. How does the waitress see these principles as values on the scales?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U31	I do not think that the importance of 5,000 or any other number is a very high value. In principle, the question of the domestic policy agreement is what are the municipalities in the country. If the Estonian state decided that one village could be a municipality in its own right, then there could be one. The question of size in Estonia is serious mainly because of Tallinn. So far, we have had the smallest municipalities with a hundred inhabitants of such a large number of small islands and, at the same time, there is a mammoth city with more than 400000 inhabitants in Estonia. That doesn't make much sense. The bad experiences associated with Tallinn have been well accumulated over the years. It is clear that if someone does a population geography survey and compares how local authorities can handle their tasks with different population numbers, some general graph will develop from the smallest to the largest. It is certainly possible to draw out some mean and some median line. In this case, it was said that five thousand people can do much better than, for example, one thousand. It's probably not a lie about itself, I just don't know any specific research with it. But it is wrong to conclude that if there are 5,000 inhabitants in the municipality, it can certainly do well, and if there are no 5,000 inhabitants, for example 500, then there is no way that it can do well. Studies containing a statistical and generalising element are very important, but on the basis of these studies, the rigid guidelines for such an important reform should not be written down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U32	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good penguin from the Commission! My question concerns history. By presenting the draft of the Free Party and doing this historical excursion, this topic would actually require a large conference ♪ you have talked a lot about the parishing of Estonia. Other free parties have spoken of this. My question is: why just this Estonia? Our history is hundreds and thousands of years long, we have had very different administrative divisions. In the context of the administrative reform, Tarmo Loodus has been parished Estonia, has been Siim Valmar Kiisler's attraction centers Estonia, which I think was very good, and the only mistake was that county centres and local, lower level centres were seen as equal, and have been the counties of Estonia. It also ran through your report that one county could be a rural municipality. Why this? The parish principle has also been violated during previous reforms, even in 2013, when part of Mulgimaa, or Paistu parish, joined Viljandi rural municipality. So why this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U34	It is certainly not an absolute principle, but it has been used relatively successfully in carrying out a wide range of tasks. The problem with the attraction centers is that we already have historical experience of the attraction centers coming and going. For example, there were many attraction centres in Estonia after railways were built in Estonia in the 1880s and 1890s. Almost every railway station turned into a local attraction center. I called the booth earlier. Puka has once been a very important centre of attraction, but now both Puka and the other old railway station-leaves between Tartu and Valga are not exactly ghost-eating houses, but more or less that way. As far as the parish division is concerned, as a young man, I once came to work at the ethnographic museum, the present Estonian National Museum. From the beginning, this museum has been based on the division of the Lutheran church into parishes, which actually dates back to the time of the Catholic Church. There were parishes in Estonia if I'm not mistaken, 101, 102 or 103. Somewhere like that. This system is the basis for collecting fairy tales, folk songs, etc. This has justified itself for a number of reasons. One is that most parishes are not all, but most parishes have developed so that they have completely clear physical boundaries in nature in Estonia. Take one of the Estonian highways! If you are near a parish center, you will see that the forest is few, the buildings are many, the fields are fertile. After a while, settlement becomes thinner and comes a strip of forests or swamps or bogs where there is no human settlement. You bet you were crossing the parish line, which may have been the county line at the same time. The second fact is that throughout our history, people's basic communication is within parishes. The dialects of the Estonian language are also distinguished by parishes and people's connections and family ties have been the same. Before the Estonian people became much more mobile, it was very unusual for marriage ties to extend across the parish border to another parish. So, culturally and naturally, parishes exist and their use as a basis for various systematizations has justified itself. No one has been able to propose a better system than the parishes to reflect Estonian history and folk culture. But the parish system has its drawbacks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U35	Viktor Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U36	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleague Jüri Adams! In every country, every government has a sort of coercive mechanism, nothing to be done about it. The government cannot always base its decisions on people's wishes. Otherwise, the government should first cancel all taxes and finally set itself on fire. A lot of people would be very pleased with that, maybe the Free Party. I don't know if that kind of freedom is your statutory purpose. You have made a final list of ten principles that should be taken into account by the government. The government, in my opinion, has sufficient discretion. If you leave it to the ten principles alone, you will limit the government's activities because it cannot take into account, for example, the location of water bodies or the possibilities for the reproduction of flying squirrels. Why would you want to narrow down the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U37	The answer to the last question may be that even if we tried, we would have little strength. It's not like we can narrow it down. But in the case of coercion, there is no doubt that there is a philosophy. I've lived most of my life in Soviet times. One strange experience is that there was a great deal of coercion and refusal in the Soviet system, which people largely did not approve and mostly did not comply with. For this reason, my political philosophy has become such that, if there is any way of not banning it and if there is any way of not forcing it, it should be done. There are undoubtedly elements of democracy and any kind of governance, but they should never be such that they force a very large part of the population to do something against their will. Now your question about ten points. I honestly don't know what you were thinking. If you were thinking of the ten points that are listed in the first page of the draft explanatory memorandum, they are not made up by the Free Party. This is an extract from one of the current Estonian laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U38	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I ask Mr Hallemaa, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests, young guests on the balcony! The debate on this issue has developed into a kind of conference, and the whole issue is what we need to conduct conferences to dissect. 'We cannot pass through Latvia,' says the song verse, and the context of the administrative reform led us towards Latvia. As a person in this area, I dare confirm that Latvia's reform was still very central, led from above. So we can hardly consider volunteering as an example. However, certain Latvian experiences should be taken into account. In presenting the Commission's views, I will highlight the progress and results of the debate on 7 March. Ten members of the Commission attended the meeting, and only Jaak Madison was absent. The meeting was chaired by Ken-Mart Vaher. The views of the drafters were highlighted by Jüri Adams, who himself was a member of the Commission and participated in subsequent discussions. Olivia Taltud, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance, who presented the position of the Government of the Republic, which was adopted at the meeting on 23 February, was also present. The government does not support this bill. The purpose of the draft is in the explanatory memorandum, and I will not repeat that. Helmut Hallemaa, Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Peeter Ernits, Lauri Luik and Ivari Padar spoke on the Commission. The debate broke out on a number of issues and the debate in the Commission went beyond what the draft itself expected. The main presentation also became more extensive. I argued in my question, and later Ivar Padar, Arto Aas, Peeter Ernits, and indirectly Lauri Luik confirmed that the Government of the Republic actually has a margin of discretion under the law in force. The government has implemented this at least in the case of insular municipalities. Ruhnu, the smallest island parish with 150 inhabitants, has been given the right to remain in the parish, and the government actually applies it to the parish of Petserimaa. So this right has been exercised. If the procedures provided for by the Administrative Reform Act and one of which was indeed the result of 15 February then the proposals for forced mergers had to have been lowered, then in the summer the government will be able to exercise discretion in deciding on the merger of rural municipalities. My colleague, Lauri Luik, noted that it is not a good idea to change one small thing in the whole text of the law. The second thing that needs to be agreed on today's mother tongue day, for which I also welcome and congratulate everyone, is that the text of the drafts should be in a simple and understandable language, which is certainly not a single five- or six-line sentence of the draft 376. Several members of the Commission led by Ivari Padar pointed out the practical side of the problem. By the time the current government started operating, the administrative-territorial reform introduced by the Administrative Reform Act adopted last spring was already in the final stages. Stopping or reversing things at this point would have caused even more confusion in the country than the administrative-territorial reform is making changes. However, it is clear that any reform anywhere will inevitably change the organisation of state life and create some confusion. That's how it's been through history. We had quite a lively discussion about previous reforms and what is happening now, especially from a voluntary or non-volunteering point of view. The so-called Päts reform, already mentioned today, which took place in 1939, was a very central, top-run reform, but was also very thoroughly prepared. It was led by the then Vice Rector of the University of Tartu, the well-known geographer Edgar Kant and his team in Estonia and throughout the world, but the whole concept was actually formulated or drawn by Endel Krepp. The plan was thoroughly analysed, but in reality the process was carried out very centrally. When we look at world practice, even in our immediate vicinity, we see that very many administrative reforms have been implemented centrally in the country as a whole. But it has always been necessary to make a choice as to how much to manage from above and how much to give on the ground. We have chosen such an intermediate option. I emphasised in the Commission and I also stress here that this phase should be moved from this to the next one as soon as possible. That is why I asked several times whether we were talking about administrative territorial reform and changes in administrative organisation, or whether we were talking about administrative reform as a whole. In my opinion, the administrative reform has not yet begun, the work is ongoing. They think about how to change the functioning of local governments, give them more rights so that local governments are more real in content. In comparison with the neighbouring countries, we have 23% of the income base of the local governments depending on the state budget, figuratively speaking, in the hands of the municipalities themselves, in Finland and Sweden, in a circle of 50%, in Denmark even more than 60%. In fact, we still have a long way to go and these things should be done as soon as possible. However, the boundaries of the municipalities are those that can be put on paper in different ways and applied in life. In fact, the same principle of parishism, which I also asked about, has already been violated several times during the restored Estonian era and in several regions. There was also a discussion on whether the substantive part of the administrative reform was prepared by the previous government or by the current government. I think it's only important in the protocol, essentially not. It is important now to move forward quickly with all of this so that, by 1 January next year, when new municipalities start to operate within the new borders, they are strong, capable and as independent as possible. Olivia Taltud highlighted the position of the Government of the Republic, which Mr Adams has already noted in his answer to questions or in his main report. The main reason was that the government has already made a number of legal acts, as well as a number of proposed mergers, in accordance with the Administrative Reform Act. It probably doesn't make sense to turn it back. As stated, on 15 February the government took decisions on all 26 regions where the population criterion was not met. Yes, I also think there could have been more criteria. But 5,000 inhabitants, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs found, are absolutely constitutional criteria. This is one of the indicators for assessing the capacity of municipalities. There should certainly be other criteria, but this is the state of affairs at the moment. And since it was found to be constitutional, it makes sense to move on with the process. It is clear that changes in the context of this law can be made in the future and that it will probably make sense to carry out further reforms in decades' time. This is neither the first nor the last administrative reform. Now for procedural decisions. First, it was decided by consensus to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting. Secondly, it was decided to appoint me as rapporteur and thirdly to propose that the draft be rejected. There were nine members of the Commission who had participated in the meeting, one against and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U40	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U41	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your debate, did the Commission reach out to you that you also had a rather broad and meaningful discussion of how the administrative reform has progressed so far? What are the successes, what are the lessons that perhaps should not have been learned in this form, and has this rigid limit of 5,000 inhabitants justified itself? Was there a debate on this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U42	There was no such analysis directly, and I think it is too early to do so. After all, the process is still underway and is moving on. Yes, if you look at the map, it is likely that a number of such municipalities, where possible and perhaps the necessary changes have already been decided, have been drawn out as if they had not been drawn in advance. But these are voluntary decisions made at council level. Only 26 regions remained open, and the Government of the Republic proposed accession. Now the councils are expected to take positions and then the government will make its prudent decisions. But, yeah, that analysis wasn't there. In fact, this should perhaps be the responsibility of another committee. This committee is led by a good colleague, Mr Padar, and I, too, am a member of it, for example, Külliki Kübarsepp. It is the Committee on State Reform, which could have carried out such analyses on its desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U43	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U44	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a question. It is good practice to invite partners affected by the future law to participate in the drafting of a draft law. It has been pointed out here that 26 municipalities are, as if, involved in reducing these restrictions and granting more rights to the government. Setumaa has also been mentioned where such legislative obstacles play a role. Were the representatives of the municipalities invited to the meeting to give a more accurate overview of the obstacles, such as the elders and the presidents of the councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U45	It was not because the draft does not directly concern any particular municipality. It is the intention of the initiators of the draft act to give the government more freedom to grant exemptions. So it is briefly summed up. In fact, it concerns the government and a representative of the government was invited. The entire Administrative Reform Act and the administrative-territorial part of the reform, the first stage, concerns all Estonian municipalities, not only them 26. The reform will change the functioning of all municipalities. I am the representative of the city of Viljandi and I hope that the next stages will be reached. Fortunately, we did not change borders; in the course of this reform, we managed to prevent this. For now, however, I look forward to a change in the content of the administrative reform in spring and autumn at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U46	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Just a minute ago, you said that a change of law would give the government more freedom. Then why did this debate end so sadly? It is a pity that you were not in this Chamber yesterday and did not hear the Minister, when he replied to his inquiries, point out that it was the figures that restrict his activities. Maybe we just need a freer hand. And sad that when government representatives were in session, they didn't want those freer hands. Moreover, yesterday it became clear that there is at least one small rural municipality in Estonia that has been very successful in handling multiple schools and offers free services. So, in fact, this 5000 population is not unique in terms of coping.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U48	Last night's session I followed quite a bit of my office, and I am very well aware of the subject. I'm an educational geographer. As regards the negative position of the government, the main reason was that the amendments requested by this draft law would be retroactive. The government has already made the draft decisions, as well as the draft regulations, and they have been forwarded to the municipalities. Municipalities now take considered decisions at council level, what they think of the government's specific proposal. Once they're on the government table, the government can make its prudent decisions in all of these 26 places. That was the main reason. It is true that Olivia Taltud, who attended the meeting of the Commission, also said that Estonia is a unitary state and local governments are subject to the general policy of the state. But I think that, although this may not be the case, municipalities are indeed part of the Estonian state, the administration system of the state. It is clear that these things must be dealt with together. Yes, municipalities are a constitutional institution and that is what this voluntary or, under certain conditions, voluntary merger takes into account. Already mentioned in the essence of a good reform in 1938. The year 2008 was very clearly unitary and central.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U49	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U50	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good answer! I don't understand your answers at all. You claim that the government has already made decisions and that they have been notified to the local governments. Then you say that now the municipalities also have some power of decision. How can governments have decision-making powers when the government has already made decisions? As far as I know, until 15 April, municipalities and villages will be able to make reasoned proposals to change territory. By 15 May, the municipalities will have to present their views on the government's proposal. Who's right? Are you right to say that the government has taken decisions today and that there is no freedom of decision, or is the right information in the administrative reform agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U51	Thank you. These decisions, taken by the government and taken at the second level, are the result of the administrative reform law that has been passed in this Chamber. A merger was proposed for those municipalities that did not comply with the requirement of 5 000 inhabitants. As a result of this law, municipalities now present their position, that is their right. And then the government makes its prudent decision. It's as simple as that. I'm not going to read the paragraphs to you right now, it's a big law. But this law has been passed in this Chamber, and the Government of the Republic and all the other administrative bodies in Estonia are operating as a result of this Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U52	Thank you. No further questions for you. It is now possible to open negotiations where representatives of the political groups can take the floor. First, I would like to ask Mr Herkel to speak on behalf of the Group of the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U53	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Mr Hallemaa said, in answer to the first two questions, Krista Aru and Inara Luigas, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not been monitoring the implementation of this reform, either with or without the participation of representatives of forced-joining municipalities. I do not want to accept the argument that it is too early to do so. The Free Party Group has actually tried to monitor this by raising a number of questions. Last night we did this with the help of the Minister of State Administration, Mikhail Korb. He answered our questions and said one quite remarkable sentence in my opinion. He stated that the law on administrative reform would remain the way it is, because the parties to the government had so agreed. And no hair in the law that underpins this reform will be touched. It was an honest confession. But this is definitely not rational. The main logic of the Administrative Reform Act is that we whip the municipalities and also give them carrot membership grants. Let's see what comes out as a result of this tossing, and then let's say it was their free will. The main motivation is the requirement of 5,000 residents, which triggers mergers. The question of how logical or illogical these mergers are is not very raised. I think it is high time for this monitoring or conclusions to be drawn. And if you will allow me, I will do this here for my part and on behalf of the Free Party Group. What are the bad consequences of the law underpinning the current reform? One bad consequence is that a number of geographically unnaturally-shaped municipalities have emerged. Järva municipality is perhaps the most marked of the remains, but not the only example. The second consequence is that it is also very difficult to name an entity whose geographical shape is vague. Alongside this problem, on Mother's Day, I also point out that the recommendations made by the Council have not been adequately heard. If the Council has made its recommendations in such a way that it has its first, second and third preferences, these first preferences, or historical names of parishes, have been rejected. Thirdly, the boundaries of historical counties and perhaps of cultural areas as a minor problem have become blurred. Of the counties, this is particularly the case with the läänemaa so crazy that the county is not left. In the case of cultural areas, however, this reform could actually have gone further and the old Võromaa could have been restored in a more holistic way. A good example is Setumaa, and I'll mention it. But the fact that only two of the five historical parishes of Mulgimaa belong to Mulgimaa is another example of ambiguity. Finally, the border between cities and rural municipalities becomes very vague, sometimes too vague. Pärnu, for example. It should not be the case that there are swamps and bogs in the city, but the actual suburb does not fit in the city of Pärnu. This leads to another conclusion, and that is that the section of the Constitution, which says that local government units are municipalities and cities, should be amended or deleted at all. It would take away a lot of problems. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U54	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U55	The view that nothing needs to be changed is short-sighted, whether it is based on any political agreement. What's the Free Party's preference now? It is certainly the preference of the Free Party to have meaningful reform and to do so on a solid basis. Mr President, I feel a little sick to talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U56	I'm asking you to keep the room quiet. It's gonna be hard for the waitress to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U57	Our view is that the reform must be meaningful and have a solid fundamental principle. The basic principle can be either that or that, we have stressed that it would perhaps be the most sensible way to go from the historical parishes. A hundred percent of this is certainly no longer the basis for today, but it has now been completely ignored. Another option would be to rely on the counties. This would certainly require the existence of divisions and larger municipalities, but is in principle conceivable. Larger municipalities should arise either way. There are golden circles around Tallinn, which have been happy mainly because they have 5,000 inhabitants. But there could have been other solutions. But I'm gonna come back to history for a moment, and there's a lot of talk going on here. Questions arose as to why Mr Adams' assessment of the activities of the IRL or the Reform Party which initiated this reform was such or different. Look, it seems to me that the services of these parties and their predecessors in Estonia's development are quite great. This concerns economic policy, the major reforms of the 1990s at all. But there was no administrative reform at the time. This was not done even when it was already relatively well prepared. I would like to remind you that the Tarmo Nature Reform Programme, this was during Mart Laari's second government, stopped the Reform Party just because the presidential elections were coming. They considered that their candidate would not benefit from the merger of rural municipalities at the same time. That's where the reform went. The president was then Arnold Rüütel. It is very unfortunate that this was the case because this plan was well-developed and well-negotiated. After a while, IRL put forward a plan to this effect by its own Minister, Vallo Reimaa. Now we are really sorry to note that the worst possible reform has actually been carried out using the whip and carrot method. Let's give it a little relief with our bill. We ask that we support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U58	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party in Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U59	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, A good mother tongue for all of you! I've got a mile that I can täämbä just uma mother tongueh hang out here for everyone. The topic of its administrative reform and here they touched the story of the story of Setomaa and I wanted to go from Setomaa to the bizarre slope. If here everyone says that Setomaa is just a thrill, that he has succeeded also in the position of geographer, then mi, paljo inemisõ mõõmõmõm, et tuu om just failed. Direction om üütyõ poolõ and tuu om Eestimaa poolõ. Mi Petseri om ärpustud borderiga and that border ehtädätäs välja välja välja välja. We're olympic as if the answer was crushed. Wow, that's very good, let it be! I'm sure I'll get my hands on you, and Ilosa Setomaa will do it. Now, what I wanted to say is: the administrative reform of the cuckooness of this om eedimene step across the big-ass reformh. We do not tiä, how nakasõ distribute a slice of the state's uprising and määndõst saüts väigokõnõ väljale tuud, ku big state reform om over the stumps. Says the big thing that won't be solved, is how he paid to share the money. Tuu, that all maksõ omma tetty five ashndõ inemisõ pääle, näutäs very clear, that all nou väljaõ, koh omma vämämb as five thousand stings, icy weight. Mul om palõv: let's settle all the CSF of the Riigikogu here, so let's not follow Setomaa, let's not leave Setomaa behind Setomaa and let's not leave Setomaa behind. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-14_U60	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 376 at first reading. We will go to the preparations for the vote. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the draft law amending the administrative reform law at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 10 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was supported, Bill 376 has been rejected. Our agenda today has been exhausted. I wish everyone a good day's work! Closure of the sitting at 11.31 a.m.
