ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 5th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session. I congratulate you all on Valentine's Day! I guess it would be too blue-eyed to think that we're all necessarily friends with everyone, but I hope there's even a little more friendly collegiality in our work and in our business than today. Now I kindly give the floor to the authors of the drafts and inquiries. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U2	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on possible constitutional interferences in the elections to the Riigikogu in 2019, after the end of the administrative reform. The law on administrative reform adopted in haste and recklessly confuses the borders of many counties and changes the number of inhabitants, and if the boundaries of the circles are not changed, it will create a clear constitutional barrier in the elections to the Riigikogu in 2019. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia requires that elections be uniform and proportionate. At the same time, the number of mandates in the electoral circles with population movements has increased, and administrative reform is amplifying it further. A situation has arisen where the weight of a citizen's voice in different counties is very different. There have also been very large differences between the circles in the distribution of mandates. In 2015 elections there were 14 mandates in District 4 (Harju and Rapla counties) and 5 mandates in Electoral District 6 (Western-Viru County). This almost triple difference results in 7% of the votes needed in the 4th district to obtain a personal mandate, for example, but 20% in the 6th district. The same problem is the distribution of circuit mandates. This situation clearly does not comply with the principle of uniformity or proportionality in the elections, so we have five questions for the Prime Minister on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U3	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U4	Mr President, good representatives of the people, a friendly day for all of us. On behalf of seven members of the Free Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister for Public Administration, Mikhail Korb. The government has decided to form Alutaguse rural municipality, a large rural municipality, with an area of 1,700 square kilometres. As they are now saying in Alutaguse, the centre of this municipality could be the Pagari village or the Pagar manor house. I'd only be happy to, because my home has been in the Bakery Manor House. But it is actually very serious, because if we look at where this great Alutaguse municipality is going to be located, we see that we want to put together the two sides of Jõhvi in areas that do not actually have a common centre. The North-Estonian Regional Commission has not given its support to the creation of this large rural municipality, which has seen very clearly that Toila, Kohtla-Nõmme and Kohtla could join Jõhvi. So we could get a very strong centre from Jõhvi, which would also have its own peripheral areas. Alutaguse municipality, which includes Alajõe and Iisaku, could also include Illuka and would then be a strong Alutaguse municipality. Why the government decided otherwise, that is what we want to know from the Minister through our five questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U5	I have received two inquiries on behalf of the Bureau. Their further processing is decided by the Management Board in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act that applies to us in the Riigikogu. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu and 15 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U6	Today's first item is the second reading of the draft resolution 367 of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the 'Establishment Committee of the Riigikogu for the resolution of the population crisis' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Anneli Oti, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the draft decision 'The establishment of a Parliamentary Problem Committee for the resolution of the population crisis', which was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 6 February. Its first discussion took place in plenary on 26 January and the Commission then discussed two amendments. The members of the committee, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Peeter Ernits and Commission advisers took part in the debate. There was no Jüri Adams and Mart Nutt. Now I am talking about the amendments that we have been discussing. The content of Jaak Uibu's proposal was that at the end of each session, the Commission would present to the Riigikogu the interim report as a separate item and the final report on the closure of its activities. The Commission found that we do not support this proposal in this form, but we note in the explanatory memorandum that it is possible for permanent committees to ask the representative of the committee of concern to give an overview of the results of the work of the committee of concern, if they consider it necessary. A second amendment had been tabled by the Estonian Free Party Group. Its content was that the Commission's mandate would run from the entry into force of the Decision until 1 October 2018. As a result of the debate on this amendment, the Commission found that we do not support it in this form, as the problem that the Commission should resolve will certainly not end on that date. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session by 14 February 2017. The decision was consensual. The Commission also proposes to put the draft to a final vote. This decision was also consensual. So I would like your support for the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U8	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much, dear waitress. I will open negotiations if I wish to speak. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U9	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I repeat what I said in the first reading of this draft, but the Free Party Group has asked me to address this issue again, and that is why I am doing it. We have developed a unique and familiar legal term in Estonia, which is summed up by the initial abbreviation or acronym 'jokk', i.e. everything is legally correct. What we are doing now is a do-over, because we are creating two permanent committees for the Riigikogu today, but we are acting as if we are not creating them, but we are setting up temporary committees, committees of concern. So we're happy to do the jock-thematics here. I have pointed out that it is unwise to go this way to create a basically unlimited number of new committees in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu during its composition has been discussing the same issues, it was when there was a government headed by the Reform Party, and then it was found that they were not needed. It's different now that they're needed. It's a pretty bad sign to think about the future. Some time ago, there was a member of the Reform Party in the Riigikogu, whose name is Martin Kukk. I had the opportunity to work with him in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Martin Kukk excelled in the fact that he felt that it was entirely natural for the great work to be done without being invited to do so by a separate committee. He led one of those committees to work, but it stopped working the moment he left here. To confirm once again: the same result could in principle be achieved without creating these committees, without hiring staff and without spending any extra money. The last thing I want to say is that there is now a widespread statement in the Estonian press, just as the Reform Party would be a opposition party in the Riigikogu. I, acting in the Riigikogu, have not understood what facts confirm this. What is happening here is certainly an example of the opposite. This group is, in essence, an ally group of the government coalition, which, for some strange reason, is not among the political groups of which ministers have been elected from among its members. With regard to the draft we are currently discussing, as I understand it, he has expressed his full solidarity with the basic policy of the money-waste coalition, that we will then straighten out these two hundred thousand euros under the sign of these problem committees. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U10	There's no more calls. It is. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U11	Thank you. The procedural question: what did this man just say? What was the item or procedure? That was a weird talk. He said something about the Reform Party. Is there any way you can frame it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U12	Thank you for your question. I will certainly not interpret the thoughts of the experienced Jüri Adams. He expressed his own opinion. If you have any questions for him, please ask them after the end of the sitting or, at the very least, even during it. Let us now go to the revision of the amendment. One amendment to the draft has been tabled, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the position of the commission is to disregard it. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, this proposal is not to be voted on. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the commission, as you have heard, is to put the draft to a final vote on 367. We are now going to prepare for the work without leaving the seat. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Establishment of the Riigikogu' to resolve the population crisis' presented by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union. 367 Please take a stand and vote. 62 delegates voted in favour and 13 against. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U13	The next item is the second reading of Draft 368 of the Riigikogu's Decision 'Construction of the Parliament's Problem Committee on the Development of Developments of State Reform' presented by the Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Mr Peeter Ernits, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U14	Ladies and gentlemen, My report is similar to the previous one. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the establishment of this committee on 6 February. Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik and Peeter Ernits were present, and Jüri Adams and Mart Nutt were absent. The constitution of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the development of developments in state reform had been proposed for the second reading. This was done by the Free Party and it was the same as the previous draft proposal that the mandate of the Commission should not last until the end of this Riigikogu, but from the entry into force of the decision until 1 October 2018. The Commission decided not to take this proposal from the Free Party Group into account; the decision was consensual. We've reviewed the amendments made to the bill. Mr Laane raised the question of whether the Commission could not be set up as a special committee, rather than as a committee of concern, as he felt that the reform of the state was not a direct problem. Chairman of the Commission Ken-Marti Vaher stated that special committees are parliamentary bodies provided for in specific laws (e.g. the Special Committee on Corruption provided for in the Anti-Corruption Act), but there are problem committees to resolve individual issues. § 21 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures states that the Riigikogu may set up a problem committee if it becomes apparent that there is a need to work through a major problem. This will be done when, given the importance, volume and specificity of the subject, it is not enough to draw up the Commission's report. In most cases, the committee of concern is a form of cooperation between Parliament and the government, with Parliament's working body shaping its position and proposing a solution to the problem to the executive. A committee of problems may also be set up to examine internal issues. It was said to refresh memory. The outcome of the Commission's work is a report in which the Commission presents the results of its analysis and proposals for further addressing a key issue. The report of the Problem Committee may provide a basis for discussing a crucial national issue in the Riigikogu's plenary session. That was the answer to Mr Kalle Laanet. However, Mr Laane continued that the reform of the state is not a problem, it is a question of the development of the country, and so it should not be a committee of concern. My colleague, Mr Aas, pointed out that the name of this committee is 'the Commission's problem for the development of developments in national reform', but the Commission's tasks do not give rise directly to the need to develop developments. That's where the discussion ended, and they started making decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today (this decision was consensual) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (also a consensual decision). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U15	Thank you, dear waitress. Before I open a round of questions, I will refer to the balcony where a high-level delegation of Finnish church figures has been seated, headed by the archbishop of Finland, Kari Mäkinen. [[Let's hear it.]] The first question to the rapporteur is put by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The actions of this committee require some kind of money. What is the amount of the additional remuneration for the chairman and vice-chairman of the committee? What role does it play in the creation of this Commission when it comes to these extra costs? As we understand, the ad-hoc working group on state reform worked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U17	Thank you for your question. Really, this task force worked. We worked through the summer even after my colleague Martin Kukk had left our house and really free of charge. I cannot answer precisely, but I can say that the Commission's estimated operating costs are EUR 102200, including staff costs of EUR 78000 (staff costs, special allowances and taxes for the chairman of the Commission, the vice-chairman and the Commission staff serving the Commission). That's what's been unwritten here. The remaining 24200 will be for office expenses etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U18	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Are you, then, ready to explain, even afterwards, whether the additional charges for the chairman and vice-chairman are included in the 102200 or are they still being added and exactly what they are during this period, if we assume that this committee will actually work until the end of its term of office? In my opinion, it would have been reasonable to set a clear deadline, as the Free Party Group has also proposed. I think that in relation to this bill, the public must also know how many additional allowances the members of the Riigikogu receive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U20	Thank you for your question. A specific and clear question. I, too, would like to know how much the chairman and vice-chairman of the Commission will receive. This was not discussed in the Commission, and I will not repeat the overall amount of money that is now known. But let's look into it because I want to know, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U21	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U22	Thank you, Mr President. What, then, will not be done, for example, by the government, if, instead of this committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, some support groups and political groups are involved in monitoring? What is the gold that this commission is going to mine?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U23	Thank you for your question. I think that this last Commission, which has already been created, is like more gold to be mined: how to ensure that the number of Estonians grows in reality, not on paper. But there is also gold in the case of state reform, although I believe perhaps not too much. I would like to remind you that in the summer when this committee acted under the auspices of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we proposed what should be done until the gauge was issued, and there were six points in our final report that should be focused on. The work of the Commission, which is currently being set up, is narrower; it is, in fact, an optimization of state governance, so that is one of the six points. Everything can be turned into the jock scheme that Mr Adams mentioned, but I think it depends quite a bit on us too, on what we make him into. Clearly, there is a need for state reform or something like that. Parliament's control or activity could be greater, even in other cases, but certainly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U24	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! I think this issue is very important, and that is why we dealt with it last summer and, in fact, until the end of last year, with you and the representatives of the other parties. But in the course of this, it turned out that we were not able to use as much help as we would have liked, because the councillors of the committees were already overburdened. In my opinion, it is rather a question of how to provide additional funding for our assistants, not so much about finding more salaries for members of the Riigikogu. Do you share this view that the focus should rather be on those people who assist the members of the Riigikogu and still try to move forward so that the members of the Riigikogu do not receive additional fees for this work, because it is an elementary part of our work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U26	Thank you for your question. Good Lauri, we really did work on the preparation of these topics during the summer, when many colleagues were able to take things easy. I share your view that we should contribute more to the remuneration of the advisors. At all, I want to bow down to this House's councillors' army because without them, we would be relatively helpless, despite our high self-esteem. So I have nothing to say against you. Yeah, I think we should bet a lot more on the advisors. I cannot say whether the chairman and vice-chairman of the Commission should do this work without any additional euro or cents, but in any case the emphasis should be on the remuneration of the advisers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U27	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U28	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I read here that this is a state reform commission. It doesn't work out which country we're talking about. Was there a debate on this in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U29	Thank you for a good question. I am not sure whether we have noted everywhere in our daily activities what country we are dealing with here. We have not really discussed in the Commission that this is a reform of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U30	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Sometimes, in fact, I think I could use an additional speech on what country we are doing here. But what is the reason why we cannot set a specific deadline for this Commission? Is this a trans-national committee, or could this committee have a very clear start and finish time, precisely so that it can report clearly on the results of the work and be useful in one context or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U32	Thank you for your question. In my opinion, however, these are problems. I am thinking not only of state reform, but also of the Committee on Populations, the problem is how to ensure that there are more and more Estonians than has been before. This problem will remain in any case, even after the 2019 Riigikogu elections, there is no doubt about it. I think it's gonna be a very long time. The proposal of the Free Party was made, given that before the next Riigikogu elections, since autumn 2018, no one will be involved in substantive work, but will be more involved in promoting themselves and the halls will be empty, but we did not take this proposal into account. In the committee, a consensus was reached that this committee of problems will work until the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu. Yeah, it's a question of choice. In any case, the problem is much longer term than the powers of a single Riigikogu. In the meantime, reports will also be presented and a key national issue will be discussed here in the Riigikogu Chamber. That's all I can say about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U33	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U34	Good waitress! I listened with interest to Mr Seeder's question. Your answer sounded like you didn't find it doubtful which country we're dealing with here. However, given the involvement of the Prime Minister's party in the power structures of another country and the agreements with them, can we really be sure that there is no other country's business here? Just to be sure. Doubts and hesitations are largely up in this hall, and the cloud of concern is growing. Can we be sure that you are doing the business of Estonia, not of another country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U35	Thank you for a good question. If anyone suspects that we're doing a business here in another country, you might want to go to the competent bodies. I think they're watching what we're doing here, too. However, as far as the state reform is concerned, the Commission has never discussed it, and neither have I ever made any sense, as if, when we set up a Committee on State Reform, we were going to do a matter in another country and discuss the problems or issues of that country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U36	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U37	Thank you, good manager. Good colleague Peter! There have been doubts and doubts. I certainly have no doubts. State reform is the kind of thing that concerns executive power, which is the government, and in fact it is such an important thing that concerns everyone, among others, legislative power, or Parliament. But my question is because of the strange concern that we are dealing with in the country. The title of the decision is 'Construction of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the development of developments in state reform'. Do you know any other countries where Parliament is called the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U38	Dear colleague, thank you for your question. You can ask anything, but it's hard to answer. You're asking me if I know another country like this. Check the encyclopedia for how many countries there are in the world. I think that even our very good advisers will not be able to answer the question of how the situation is with all the countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U39	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, If there's a problem committee, there's a problem that's gonna be solved. Can you make a relatively brief statement on the final objective of this Commission's work? I understand there may be many goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U41	Thank you for your question. I need to look at the paper. We formulated six goals during the summer when Lauri Luik was still the head of our committee. However, the emphasis is currently on point 4 of our report, a flexible and effective state apparatus. The aim is to act on this, and it now has this emphasis in order to have a flexible and effective state apparatus. So this is a state reform in a so-called narrower sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U42	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question of a good colleague made you very confused. I have seen that you started looking for the purpose of the Commission's work on the papers. This raises doubts as to whether you have understood quite well what you are defending here and what the point of this work is. Is this not a sign of the same fact that it is not necessary for the Commission to meet its objectives and to deal with substantive issues, but simply to show it? Can you explain the confusion that occurred a moment ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U44	Thank you for a good question. Nothing was confusing, I just wanted to look at the wording of the Commission's final report that worked during the summer. I honestly admit that the understanding of me and our committee of six who worked through the summer was a broader reform of the state. This report is accessible to everyone. There are six points, but I'm not going to read them all. One of the six, which is a flexible and efficient state apparatus, has now been set as an objective. There's no confusion here at all. If it were up to me, I would look at this subject more broadly, but perhaps it is better to focus on one thing because it is a very large and complex area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U45	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations if I wish to speak. I'll close the negotiations without opening them. We will go to the examination of the amendments. An amendment to the draft has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. The position of the lead committee is to disregard the proposal. According to the relevant section of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, this amendment is not to be voted on. We have examined the amendment. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 368. We are now preparing the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft resolution of the Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Central Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union of the Riigikogu's 'Construction of the Parliament's Problem Committee for the development of developments in state reform' 368, assuming that the Republic of Estonia is meant here. Please take a stand and vote. 62 delegates voted in favour, 12 against and 3 abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U46	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 375 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Punished Persons, initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U47	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! This agreement provides for the possibility of transferring persons who have been prosecuted by the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India in order to execute the sentence in the country where the person convicted in either country is transferred. It's a two-way deal. In general, in Estonia, the problems of persons who have been prosecuted are regulated by other countries at the level of the Council of Europe Convention, which is open for accession to countries that are not members of the Council of Europe. India has not acceded to this Convention. It is regulated within the European Union by the Council of the European Union Framework Decision on the application of the principle of mutual recognition in criminal matters. We have a bilateral agreement since 2000 with one country that has not also acceded to the Council of Europe Convention, that is the Kingdom of Thailand. It is important to bear in mind that the terms of the transfer must be fulfilled and that the transfer must be accepted by the sentenced person and by the transferring and receiving State, as well as that the sanctioned person must be a national of the host State and that he or she or his representative must submit a request for surrender to the transferring or receiving State. The important thing that is now also relevant to the practical context, and in the light of which the Republic of Estonia has considered it necessary to ratify and enforce this agreement without delay, is that the judgment must be final, i.e. it must have entered into force. At present, there is a situation in which shipguards have challenged their judgments at a lower level and, if this agreement has been approved by the Indian State, this agreement does not require the approval of the Indian Parliament, the condition that the judgment is final must also be fulfilled. It is also important that the act or omission for which a person has been sentenced must also be punishable as a criminal offence in the host country. I would ask Parliament to discuss this agreement and to express its support for it. This is certainly necessary in the theoretical case in which the legal proceedings of the ship's defence officers are regrettably not brought to justice by an acquittal decision in the Indian country. In such a case, this would be one way in which these persons could be handed over to Estonia to carry the sentence. Its legal basis can only be that agreement we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U48	Raivo Põldaru opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. What are the developments in India? Has India paid attention to the treaty? Maybe he's ratified it. You can't find any data on it on the Internet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U50	Thank you. Each country shall determine its own level of international commitments and agreements at national level. The Estonian state's assessment is that this is a type of agreement that should be dealt with at parliamentary level. The Indian State does not interpret this in such a way that the agreement should be approved by Parliament in India before the signature of the ratification instruments. The Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has held negotiations. We have no reason to doubt the real will of the Indian country to enforce the agreement. The fact is that as a result of the long-term hard work of various government members during different governments, Estonia has shown a strong unilateral willingness to enforce the agreement. I hope that the agreement will finally come into force under international law once it has been bilaterally approved and these procedures have been completed. It is important that both Contracting States notify you in writing as soon as possible through diplomatic channels once the legal acts necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement have been completed. According to my information, we have not been informed by the Indian State. However, this does not prevent us from finalising this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U51	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U52	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! What is the government's current position in the ship's defence business? We know that this agreement is not only a matter of ship defence, but of all the people who have been convicted in India. Is the government's recommendation to Estonian citizens in detention facilities there that they can agree to a court settlement then they can get home quickly on the basis of this agreement, or is it still a suggestion that they should fight for their rights to the end and not plead guilty? The time frames for Estonian men to get home also depend on this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U53	Yes, the ship's guards have chosen the way to fight, and they have taken that stand unambiguously. They find that they are not to blame for their incriminating actions. They have therefore considered it necessary to appeal the decision. This is their right, whether it is in the framework of the rule of law in Estonia or the legal process in India. The position of the Estonian state has not changed in any way here. The assessment made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as I understand it, is that consular assistance, including legal advice, must be provided as well as help in practical matters, including the safeguarding of the rights of the defence. For these positions, as for each position, there are different results, opportunities and risks that they pose. But I do not think that such decisions are made for any person by the state or his protector, or even by a consular officer or the ministry. Man makes these decisions himself. There is no doubt, however, that people need to be aware of the opportunities and risks that differing legal behaviour poses in such a complex situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U54	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! As you have said, our ship's guards have refused to plead guilty. Therefore, this agreement will not help them to return to their homeland. This case concerns all 35 men on this ship. Now, if some of them were to plead guilty and could come home to serve the sentence, how would this affect the chances for the rest of them to get a positive court settlement if they decided to continue the courts and challenge the conviction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U56	Thank you. The general principle of penal law and its application is that there is no collective arson. But I'm not going to go into Indian court proceedings here. It is clear that the court will assess the evidence. The evidence is, of course, also statements by persons that can be dealt with in the proceedings. These statements certainly have a weight in identifying facts for the judge in any democratic rule of law. I think it is the responsibility of the Estonian state to provide its citizens, who are now making their choice, with all the help, the practical assistance that we have at our disposal. It is the duty of the Estonian state to stand up for the fact that even if the unfortunate scenario and people are found guilty, there is a real opportunity for them to return to their homeland. This is our so-called minimum maintenance obligation that must be fulfilled. No doubt, I'm sure these men will consult each other, just as they will consult with the defenders about their position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U57	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U58	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. In fact, this agreement was specifically born because of the case of our shipguards. If, now, the ship's guards are either convicted or self-convicted and entered Estonia on the basis of this agreement, what are the consequences for these people in professional and professional terms? Would they be able to work in the Defence Forces, the police or security services in Estonia or other countries if they have declared themselves guilty in order to implement this agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U59	Thank you. I would like to point out that we are not talking about a conviction right now. The question is that if this agreement had already entered into force, could it be applied? This depends on whether the judgment has entered into force. The ship's guards appealed the decision; they were not satisfied with the decision; they consider it to be an unfair decision. If the decision under appeal enters into force, we hope for the best, then, I would like to say, the agreement stipulates that the host country, which adopts its own citizen to execute the sentence, will recognise this judgment. In such a case, this is a universal principle for this type of contract, these persons come to Estonia to pay and realise the sentence. Any link or consequence of penal law that arises to them shall also arise under this agreement. The issue is whether someone is serving a sentence in a country such as India and does not agree to take up a sentence in the country of their nationality or for any other reason in that country. In general, we do not have the principle that we recognise the judgments of the Indian Court as the consequences of the punishment in Estonia, figuratively speaking, if you had in mind restrictions in the public service or in other areas of life. But yes, the brief answer is that, on the basis of this agreement, if persons of their own will come here to serve the sentence, they will be entered in the criminal record. If the Indian sanction does not exactly coincide with the Estonian Penal Code, which it is not supposed to do, then the Estonian court will make a separate decision, where it will "transform the Indian court's decision into the Estonian Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U60	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U61	Thank you. Good minister! According to the British consulate, around a few thousand British citizens are currently serving a sentence in India. For what reasons has it not been possible to transfer any of the citizens who are serving the sentence on the basis of a final judgment to their home country? That's the first question. Do you have any information on how many have requested it at all? According to the Indian Government, for a period of 12 years when the agreement has been in force with 30 countries, only 65 prisoners, 55 of whom have been Indians, have been sent to their homeland for punishment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U62	Thank you. It is certainly not possible to create an idea that this agreement would be automatically applicable to the circumstances to which I referred. The agreement must first be accepted by the sentenced person, second by the host country and third by the transferring country. So there is undoubtedly still a debate and a debate ahead of us. I am not going to analyse Indian penal practice or the practice of transferring detainees. Our country's will has been unambiguous, also in the diplomatic negotiations that we have wished for. We've reached where we are now. In my opinion, this agreement certainly does not worsen the position of these men, not under any circumstances, but creates an additional theoretical opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U63	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. How much could it cost to bring shipguards home on the basis of our estimates? Who will bear these costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U65	Thank you. The costs of the transfer of the sentenced person shall be borne by the host State in accordance with the agreement, with the exception of those incurred exclusively on the territory of the transferring State. It is possible for the Host State to require the person who has been prosecuted to reimburse all or part of the costs of the transfer. This is a question of whether the Estonian state will do so. We have several conditional theoretical situations. But the general logic is that the host country will bear these costs. What are the costs? These are the cost of escorts and transport, you have to buy air tickets for these men and the persons accompanying them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U66	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your previous reply, you said that this agreement would create an additional option for the ship's guards, rather than creating an additional obstacle. My question comes out of the framework of this bill. Since these shipguards are neither the first nor the last of our men to go to such a position, would it not be possible to take stock of such cases or to take any instructions if people have such a contract? Or is it too soon?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U68	I am sure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will analyse all possible risks that Estonian citizens face in different countries of the world in relation to their supposed good faith or legal abiding behaviour. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also issue warnings concerning, indeed, short-term travel to countries. I'm sure the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has assessed possible future theoretical cases involving such employment relationships. But we understand that in every context, circumstances are always unique in nature. It must be the employer, it must be the circumstances and it must be the case that is incriminating to them. It would certainly be reasonable for the state to look to the future and provide people with such information on the basis of these sad or regrettable examples in fulfilling its care obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U69	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U70	Mr. Minister! I suppose that this kind of contract practice has long evolved into some form of standard contract. I remember that years ago the Republic of Estonia signed an agreement with the Kingdom of Thailand with a similar content. At the time, it was a matter of bringing drug dealers back to their homeland. Do we have this type of agreement with a few other countries besides Thailand? If so, does this Treaty in any way differ significantly from the other agreements of the same type that Estonia has?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U71	No, it's not. As far as this agreement is concerned, I am not going to give in to every word, but I have been assured by the staff of the Ministry of Justice that this agreement has been based on the Council of Europe Convention. So there are no unique formulations inside, it's based on general frames. Is every word like that, I can't say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U72	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Two questions in one. Do we have an analogous agreement with the United States? If so, are we trying to get back from there the programmers who, according to my memory, got justice in our court three years ago, but then were imprisoned in the United States for the same thing? Is there any way to get them back from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U74	I will not speculate on the circumstances of each particular case, given that it is the fate of people and where they are in this legal situation. In order to avoid misleading information being given on this platform, I promise that I will respond to a good questioner on a job outside the plenary session, which is our position on the individual persons who are punishing crimes committed in the United States of America.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U75	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Is our debate not a little premature now if it is not yet clear exactly how men will decide whether or not they will plead guilty? Looks like there's a case-by-case discussion going on right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U77	Yeah, I think you're absolutely right. There is no point in denying that it would be hypocritical to do this, that, of course, the case of shipguards is behind this agreement. That's point one. Point two, does this mean preparing for this now, that this scenario will materialise, that they will not, however, be accepted? Yeah, of course, you could say that in that sense we're doing it just in case. I think that's the bad opportunity we need to anticipate, it's a national prerogative. Just because we're doing this right now doesn't mean that things have changed sensationally now. On the contrary, for a very long time, the Estonian state has requested the conclusion of this agreement. The Agreement was signed in New Delhi, India, on 15 November 2016. We have now come to this procedure. Would it be more reasonable to take the position that the Estonian state will not take steps to conclude this agreement until it is clear whether a possible negative scenario will materialise, which may or may not happen? No one here can pawn their heads or predict the actions or decisions of the Indian judicial authorities that they do at the level of appeal. I think it could simply mean diplomatic negotiations lasting a very long time. I don't think that makes any sense. We have no reason to believe that, in appeal proceedings, these men would be treated any worse than such an agreement has been concluded, not with regard to these persons, but with abstract generalisation. So in appeal proceedings, it doesn't make their position worse or stronger, that's my understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U78	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is clear that you have emphasised it several times, that this agreement is an option. But this whole process has still been very difficult for men themselves, but especially for those close to them who have been at home. If you look at this regrettable story that has been going on for years as Minister of Justice, can you say that you think that the Estonian state has done everything and given it its maximum to bring these men back to Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U80	I say so, that the Estonian state has certainly done considerably more than its citizens in providing consular assistance, legal advice or, in any case, "remaining" assistance, in cases where there has been criminal prosecution against our citizens in any country. There's no doubt about it. In all circumstances, has everything been done? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has realised this competence and I have no reason to doubt the words of any foreign minister. The entire catalogue has been used of the ways in which it is possible to provide assistance to these men. There is certainly some rational, healthy understanding of the scope of this assistance, but I think that consular advice, legal advice, support for coping, as well as psychological crisis assistance to loved ones, all of this has been done. Clearly, such a human tragic situation, where both the close and the men themselves face such uncertainty, creates a great deal of stress. I think that, as people and public officials, we all have a duty to understand this humanely difficult situation. A justification or a pretext not to provide this assistance and support because it is such a long story, we certainly do not use it. On the contrary, this means that more help has been needed in this long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U81	Mr Minister, you are currently performing here at the Riigikogu Speaker's Board as a representative of the Government of the Republic on an agreement prepared mainly by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Am I right to understand that, in order for this agreement to produce practical consequences, it is necessary, after ratification, that two conditions be met: firstly, that the person is the subject of a court ruling and, secondly, that the person expressly wishes to come to the Estonian penal authority to pay the penalty?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U82	George Adams, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U83	Yeah, that's right. I would also like to say that whether a person wishes to come to the Estonian penal institution, or rather, to transfer him under this agreement, has nothing to do with whether a person is guilty or not. It is a person's own understanding of his or her rights and whether or not he or she accepts it personally. There's no connection. In the case of pardoning, it has been said that, by seeking the pardon of the Head of State, the monarch or the parliamentary Head of State, the person takes the blame. This isn't the case here. The question of guilt has nothing to do with this. The question is that if an objective fact is a judgment and someone is seeking a transfer, it does not mean that he accepts the blame.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U84	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U85	Thank you, President of the sitting. Minister of Justice! Under the agreement, the host State recognises the decision of the court of the transferring State. However, Article 9 states that if the penalty does not comply with the law of the host country in terms of its nature or duration or both, it is possible to amend the penalty under certain conditions. In addition, Article 11 states that both Contracting States may grant a pardon, amnesty or a penalty in accordance with their national constitution or other legislation. As a Contracting Party, the Ministry of Justice has certainly previously carried out a very thorough analysis of this situation. Let us look at the negative scenario: if the judgment has entered into force and is negative for men, can it be released as a matter of urgency after they have arrived at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U86	Thank you. Estonia is the rule of law. It does not matter whether these are the people convicted in the Estonian court or whether the Estonian state has accepted the judgment of the Indian court and, as I said, transferred it or transformed it into Estonian law. No public official, an executive official, whether political or not, can say whether or not they will be released more easily. It is actually a question for the judicial authorities, it is a question for the court, it is a matter of legal proceedings. They have no restrictions, they have a sentence and they have a period of imprisonment. There are different mechanisms in Estonia that will be implemented by the court. This concerns the release before the deadline and everything else, but it is done by independent judicial authorities. These disputes cannot be shared by any executive officer; separation of powers also means that in criminal law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U87	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U88	Good Urmas! The preceding question made me flinch once. What Dmitriev just asked for was pretty horrible. In fact, he asked you if there was any way to sneak men out of prison secretly and illegally. That's what he wanted to hear from you. Thank God you didn't catch that hook. It was a very sneaky question for the Minister of Justice. But I'm coming back to the word "uncertainty." Psychologically, for these boys, this is really an indeterminate thing. Is it currently indeterminate in law? We have, like, a narrative, as they say now, or a discourse, that innocent Estonian boys are imprisoned in the hands of horrible Indians, Indian marauders and torturers, and everything is so ugly. At the same time, India is a democratic rule of law. Is it purely legal that they understand the position of these boys? Do they understand what's going on in legal terms, no matter how difficult it is psychologically?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U89	Objective legal circumstances are one thing, human understanding and knowledge, which is right and what is wrong, we know, is a matter for every human being. They fight in every person, especially in such a difficult situation. It is clear that the task of the state in this respect is nothing weird to help its citizens. This is a completely universal, elementary task for a state from a "consular, humanitarian point of view," without taking any legal stance on the justice of another sovereign state. I mean, it turned out to be right. In this agreement, the prerequisite for a possible negative scenario is that we accept the judgment of the Indian Court of Justice. The questioning of any position, even rhetorical, albeit expressed in writing, of this, I would argue, could worsen, not improve, the realisation of the agreement on the transfer of persons who have been prosecuted. We must also bear that in mind in our expressions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U90	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U91	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a two-part question. First of all, you may know more about it than anyone involved, or do you have any idea how long it would take for this process to take until our people are finally convicted there so that this agreement can be implemented? The second part of the question is that they can ask for pardon after they have been convicted. Are these processes somehow colliding or can you seek both in parallel, both pardon and transfer to Estonia or even in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U92	Thank you. No, I'm not aware of that. It is the freedom of the Indian court to deal with this matter in its time frame. How long will it take for these individuals to be convicted? I think that is a slightly targeted question, because I do not know whether these persons will be convicted. They have appealed, the sentence may consist in acquittal or, regrettably, acquittal. Now the question of pardon. The general logic of pardon is that a pardon can be applied for after a final judgment. This is also the case in India; in India, the Head of State also gives mercy. Article 11 of the draft Treaty states that the privilege of pardon is vested in both countries, which may grant mercy, amnesty or lighten punishment in accordance with their respective constitutions and other legal acts. This means that there is a 'theoretical double chance of pardoning these persons. While they are serving a sentence in Estonia, for example, the fact that India decriminalizes some act for which they have been convicted, proclaims an amnesty or pardons, but also, according to the Constitution, the Estonian Head of State.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U93	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U94	Thank you. I just refreshed my memory and checked it out. You argued that Estonia would be able to change the sentence if they were to be transferred here. But in fact, the agreement clearly states that there is no such possibility. Aren't you a little lost?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U95	Thank you. I meant that since these persons are moving to Estonia to execute the sentence and are serving the sentence at the Estonian detention place, their sentence must be based on the paragraph of the Estonian Penal Code. This 'change' did not mean that the Estonian court was essentially going to review the matter and decide whether a person was guilty or not. No, you can't do that. On the basis of this agreement, if the person has consented to the transfer and if the Estonian state has agreed to it, the starting point is that this judgment is equivalent in legal terms to the decision of the Estonian court. In order for this also to be a 'right to move', I meant this, it should be transformed into sections of the Estonian Penal Code. According to the specific nature of the act for which they have been convicted, the formulation of the Estonian Penal Code follows, the penalty rate will not change in any way. To mention the amendment was perhaps a little misleading. I didn't mean that the matter would be essentially reviewed and people's penalty rates might change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U96	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I would like to ask for a presentation by the committee of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaidi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U97	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared the draft for the first reading on 6 February. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mare Tannberg, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure at the Ministry of Justice, took part in the discussion. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu presented to the Commission the draft law on ratification of the agreement on the transfer of persons subject to judicial punishment between the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. According to the Minister of Justice, the draft 375 ratifys the agreement between Estonia and India on the transfer of persons who have been tried and punished. The purpose of this agreement is to give people the opportunity to be punished in their home country. The agreement can only be implemented if the terms of the transfer have been accepted by both the punished person and both countries. Estonia or India can hand over a citizen who has not been punished with the death penalty and who has not been convicted of a war crime. A man's sentence must be final. One of the conditions for the transfer is that the act for which the sentence was imposed must also be punishable as a criminal offence in the host country. A transfer shall be permitted if the penalty remains for more than six months. After the transfer, the person must continue to bear the sentence. States have the right to grant mercy, amnesty or attenuate punishment in accordance with their national constitution. The Committee on Legal Affairs dealt with the draft very quickly. It was proposed to put the draft on the agenda by 14 February 2017. The proposal was to finish the first reading. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 16 February 2017. It was decided to send the draft to second reading when the first one was closed by 22 February 2017 and it was proposed that the draft be put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U98	Krista Aru, question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Commission was very consensual in all its decisions, as we have heard. What were the issues that gave rise to the debate which was debated and which, in the light of this whole bill, maybe gave rise to different opinions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U100	There were not many different opinions, because the Commission was consensual here, and members of all six political parties want shipguards to make their way home as soon as possible. I guess the questions were about how this would be possible and whether this ratification process would provide some kind of guarantee. They asked what time it would take. However, this is a politically sensitive issue, and international agreements and negotiations are a world in themselves. It seems that there are relatively intelligent politicians in the Commission, and no one is making a press release about it, as if it were possible to bring shipguards to Estonia with this draft. As the Minister of Justice claimed, this is an additional option, whether it will be realised or not. I know that an official at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has proposed that this draft should enter into force not in ten days' time, but in one day's time, in order to give this thing more speed, with which we would once again increase this theoretical possibility. This was also the subject of the debate. We know that shipguards have been in India for over four years, that's a very long time. Previous questioners also asked about the psychological situation of shipguards, about their situation at all, and about how they could help. It was pointed out that the citizens of the Republic of Estonia, at least according to officials, have been treated better than British citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U101	Thank you too, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Marianne Mikko, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U102	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law under discussion today has a very specific shape: 14 citizens of the Republic of Estonia look back at the face of 14 citizens of the Republic of Estonia from the draft law ratifying the agreement on the transfer of persons who have been tried and punished. Three and a half years ago, these men left their homes for stormy waters to make a risky living for the family. However, Seaman Guard Ohio, a ship owned by AdvanFort, an Arab company registered in the United States and flying the flag of Sierra Leone, was detained by the Indian Coast Guard on 11 October 2013. It was carried by Estonian, Ukrainian, UK and Indian citizens. I recall something that is important here. For India, this is an extremely painful topic, water. Let us remember that only a few years earlier, armed terrorists arrived by sea in Mumbai. What happened in Bombay's pearl Taj Hotel in that late autumn, the hostage crisis, the dead, wounded, means the trauma that continues in Indian society to date. For India, it was a tough lesson that it could come out of the sea like lightning from the clear sky terror, which is difficult to imagine before it really is. The Mumbai terrorist attack has given men sailing with weapons at sea a special meaning to the ominous meaning. I'll come back to the bill. Our shipguards were arrested on three main points: illegal fuel refueling, illegal arms handling and illegal entry into Indian territorial waters. Today is an important day, because exactly three years ago, on 14 February 2014, the Tuticorin trial launched a process involving the Seaman Guard Ohio crew, so-called our men, on the one hand, and the Tamil Nadu Police Division Q-branch, on the other. During the trial, the ship's attorney answered the charges as follows. First, the ship was in distress at sea, which led to a shadowing storm in Indian waters. Second, because the ship ran out of fuel, the local ship was called to fuel. Thirdly, since the ship was not planning to enter Indian territorial waters, it was not possible to inform the Coast Guard in advance about the weapons. In addition, the defense claimed that the weapons were duly licensed. However, it is important to point out that on 11 January last year Tuticorin's court sentenced the ship's guards to five years of imprisonment by skipping the details of how this whole trial has been going on in India over the years. The ship's guards were taken to Chennai Prison, where they are still here today. Our 14 citizens don't plead guilty. Why would they? They've been digging. We don't know the judgment of the Indian Court of Appeal yet. However, we do know how many tears have been shed by the loved ones who stood up for their loved ones here in Estonia. There have been doors spent, there has been hope and depression. We know that the media has actively reflected the subject. The State Department has done what is within its power, as well as the entire government. We, the Riigikogu, have also sent a letter to the Indian Parliament requesting the release of shipguards. Regret must be given to the fact that until today, the path of ship defence has returned to Europe at a speed of action. It should be pointed out below that it is currently impossible to answer the question... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U103	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U104	... when our shipguards, either with a convoy or as free men, will land in Tallinn. This requires the final judgment of the Indian court, as we have heard repeatedly here. I have noted that the appeal court has not made its decision, that the proceedings are still pending. Finally. We have before us a bill that allows people convicted in the Republic of India to pay their sentences in the Republic of Estonia. It is clear that home is always easier than abroad, and deprivation of liberty is easier to endure at home than abroad. It is important that our citizens get home as soon as possible. This bill gives us an opportunity to do so. The Social Democrats therefore support the rapid ratification of the agreement on the transfer of persons who have been prosecuted by the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U105	The Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia is represented by Henn Põlluaas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U106	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, To begin with, I must express my deepest surprise that the previous speaker considered it appropriate to associate our shipguards with Mumbai's terrorist work. These parallels, and even seeing such circumstantial relationships, are just absurd. After all, this bill began to be dealt with after the Indian authorities had apprehended our shipguards more than three years ago and sentenced them as innocent. That is why I am dealing with the problems associated with them here, not so much with the agreement between Estonia and India as one that is positive in itself, undoubtedly. On 6 February, the Riigikogu Press Service delivered a press release that contained inaccurately the draft. It said: 'The Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu unanimously supported the agreement between Estonia and India on the transfer of persons who have been tried and punished, which gives Estonian citizens the opportunity to serve the sentence in their home country if necessary, should the Indian court finally condemn them. ' In the same press release, the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs said: 'The conclusion of the surrender agreement does not mean that the Estonian state is convinced of the finality of the current court settlement, but if it were to remain in force, the agreement will provide an opportunity for men to come to bear the penalty for their country of origin. ' A little bit has gone wrong here, because in fact, the agreement does not give Estonian citizens who are Estonian citizens, nor will the future Estonian citizens who are convicted in India, the opportunity to pay the penalty in their home country if necessary. The ratification of the agreement gives Estonian citizens who are serving a prison sentence in India the opportunity to express their wish to be transferred to their country of origin to the competent authority of the Indian State. This is not an automatic process. According to Indian data, only 65 prisoners, 55 of whom have been Indians, have been transferred during the 12 years when such an agreement has been concluded with some 30 countries. Thus, only ten persons have been able to go to India to serve the sentence. The convicted person must express his wish in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Indian Ministry of the Interior for the Transfer of Sentenced Persons under the Repatriation of Prisoners Act, 2003. The instructions are mandatory for citizens of the countries with which the agreement has been concluded. The prisoner shall complete the forms given in the instructions and the competent authority of India shall verify the information provided and decide whether or not to grant the prisoner's wish. The questions on page 21 must be answered. One of the unacceptable requirements for shipguards and certainly future convicts is that the prisoner undertakes not to challenge a court conviction for a lighter sentence on his return, as the process of repatriation is not designed to cancel the legal process and to obtain a lighter sentence in his own country. This is a very important point. I would like to remind you that a crew of 35 members, consisting of six British, one Ukrainian, two Indian and 14 Estonian nationals and two Ukrainian and ten Indian nationals, were acquitted in July 2014. The correct decision, however, was appealed to the Indian Supreme Court, which brought the matter back to the lower court. In January 2016, the entire crew, including the Indian chef, was sentenced to five years imprisonment. So the same case applies to all of these persons. More than a year ago, at the end of January... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U107	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U108	... sued the 35 members of the crew for verdict in Tamil Nadu's high court. We don't know what the court will decide. But it can be quite certain that, no matter whether an acquittal or convicting decision is to be made, one party will certainly appeal against it, so it can be assumed that criminal proceedings may continue for several years, which excludes the possibility of using this negotiated agreement. Shipguards refuse to plead guilty, which is necessary to enable them to serve their sentence at home under this agreement. Why should decent and honest citizens ruin their lives by agreeing to be declared a criminal? After all, this would lead to a whole series of restrictions on finding work in Estonia and other countries in the future. In addition, all legal expenses and the costs of transferring to Estonia would be borne by the families and the interest-free loan granted to them by the government would be recovered, because there is no reason not to recover it from the criminals. Finally, one more clarification. The draft emphasises that countries have the right to pardon or amnesty or to lighten the penalty in accordance with their law. However, Article 11 (1) of the Agreement provides that only the transferring State (or India) has the right to decide on applications for review of the judgment. Therefore, this agreement has no effect on improving the situation of shipguards and resolving the problem. The government needs to think seriously about what to do and put its helping shoulder on. They don't leave theirs. That's the simple reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U109	There's no more calls. I do not see that the Minister would like to take the floor. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 375. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 375 amendments on 16 February at 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U110	The last item is the first reading of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Mr. Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 16 January 2017, the Environment Committee decided to initiate this draft, following the decision of the Riigikogu of 25 October 2016 to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution. The draft aims to alleviate the situation of landowners who have privatised their land with a post-tax payment and whose land has subsequently been subject to intensive conservation restrictions by the State. As a result, they can no longer manage the forest they own, but still have to pay a back payment. As of 9 January 2017, there were six immovable property pending, three of which had been acquired and three were pending. Despite the fact that the State has initiated an acquisition procedure in respect of immovable property, landowners will continue to be obliged to pay the State an annual payment in due time until the State acquires the land. At the same time, landowners will have to wait years for this because the actual time of buying-out of mortgage-charged immovable property depends on the order in which the application is received and on the number of state resources. However, the current government coalition has consistently paid attention to this problem. While years ago there was EUR 0.8 million in the state budget, this year there is already EUR 4 million. The foreseeable time when this issue will be resolved is nearly five years, but the Committee on the Environment nevertheless decided to supplement § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act, based specifically on these six immovable property and the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. The Committee on the Environment unanimously decided to put this draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 14 February, i.e. Valentine's Day, to close the first reading and set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 16 a.m. on 1 March 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U112	Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U113	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! Indeed, the Chancellor of Justice is concerned that we do not have a reasonable period of procedure in which the problem of the transfer of immovable property should be resolved. As of 1 January, there is a decision on 111 properties, with a total of 180, or 70, of these properties still present a problem. You made it clear that this bill only concerns six immovable property. How exactly does this draft take into account the Chancellor of Justice's observation that § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act is contrary to the Constitution? How does the duration of proceedings change and whether other compensation options change significantly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U114	Thank you. I must first congratulate my colleague, the Hatter. Despite not being a member of the Committee on the Environment, he has contributed, not only in words and hearts, but also by acts, to the addition of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act and, in general, to the issue of the situation of landowners whose land is subject to intensive conservation restrictions. I will reply briefly that the situation of all the properties that are on the list will not be improved or changed by means of a bill. As I said, it specifically concerns six immovable property. The Committee on the Environment decided that it would be reasonable to take this part as quickly as possible, otherwise people would have to make regular payments and, in four to five years' time, it would no longer be wise to come up with this proposal. One important keyword of the draft law being discussed today is speed, because speed counts for these six properties. As for the rest of the list, your information is true, there really are over a hundred properties. As I said, the current government coalition has constantly paid attention to increasing this money in the budget. After all, the Minister of the Environment has said several times from this very remote area that the Earth Administration has a certain capacity. They have estimated that they will be able to prepare these land buy-back decisions and valuations for a maximum of EUR 5 to 6 million per year. I hope that in next year's state budget we will find another 1 to 2 million and get the state machinery to work at maximum speed to buy back the land.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U115	The Hatter, please, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U116	Thank you. Indeed, the Free Party also proposed to amend this section last year and we found that the capacity of the Earth Administration is greater. At that time, an official of the Ministry of the Environment said at the Commission's hearing that a time limit has been imposed largely because, since 2006, ten immovable property are pending legal proceedings and the rest have to be largely behind them. In this light, did the Committee on the Environment also examine other possible solutions to approach this paragraph and the observation made by the Chancellor of Justice? Is it in the spirit of gradually proposing other solutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U117	Thank you, very good question! It is true, as I said, that we decided to supplement § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act in two parts. This bill only concerns, as I said, part of the Chancellor of Justice's proposal. Indeed, with regard to the accelerated buy-back of land with more resources, I am thinking of those plots of land where intensive nature conservation restrictions have been imposed, this change, in cooperation with the Ministry, should still reach this hall. We have constantly reminded the Ministry of this at meetings, both when we dealt with the draft initiated by the Free Party and when we dealt with the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. These concepts have also sounded in this Chamber, be they land change or other possibilities. I can assure you that the Committee on the Environment will not allow this issue to fall into oblivion or fall off the table. Indeed, when discussing six immovable property in this Chamber, it seems that this is a small question, we cannot get over it or around it. But this is an important theme and the keyword is speed. That is why we decided to do all this in two parts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U118	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! First of all, I'm sure it's a good thing to start with a little thing. But in addition to the previous question, I wanted to ask you whether you also have some sort of working schedule on the committee, at which pace you will proceed with the repair of § 20. If the Chancellor of Justice has presented his reasons for the breach of the Constitution, this is the fastest task for us as a Riigikogu as a whole. I didn't hear a clear deadline. I just heard the job was on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U120	Thank you. Of course, it is true that big things start with small things, I agree with you on that. Yes, you have rightly heard that we have not set a date, but we have reminded the Ministry of the Environment of this issue at all meetings. When we talk about the working schedule and the urgent procedure of the Riigikogu, it is clear that this amendment must take place during this semester. When we start talking about autumn, we can actually no longer say that this is an urgent procedure. So in any case, we should be in this room before Midsummer Day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U121	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U122	Good manager! Good waitress! I read here that the application for suspension of payment of mortgage payments must be submitted to the mortgage holder, and it has also been said that it is the county government. But we know very well that the county governments will soon disappear. To whom, then, is this application still to be submitted, and why is it not indicated here? It's just a matter of county government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U123	Thank you. This is certainly not the only law that mentions rural government as an institution. At present, rural governments exist and no final decisions have been made to make them disappear. Yes, it has been discussed at government level, it has also been discussed in pointless, multiple colleges, but there is no decision as such. I believe that if rural governments are abolished one day, § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act is certainly not the only place where this concept and the so-called institution need to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U124	Thank you, honored waitress. No further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U125	Thank you and have a nice day, everyone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U126	Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. The representative of the Estonian Free Party, Külmiki Kübarsepp, will speak on behalf of the political group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U127	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! First of all, thank you to the Committee on the Environment for taking the matter forward. Indeed, I share this note of concern here that, if the Chancellor of Justice proposes to us, we could move a little faster on this matter. Since proposals have also been tabled by political groups whose members are not members of the Committee on the Environment, it would be wise to invite those who have other solutions to the debate. Indeed, we have been talking so far about the fact that there is no point in changing the law because of a few small cases, and rather solutions should be sought to solve problems, for example, with regulations, and not with any major legislative changes. I will bring out the figures just in case, then it is clear that the subject is much larger and wider and will certainly become even more topical when the problem is moving towards a solution. On the website of the Ministry of the Environment, as of 1 January, there were 180 properties on the acquisition list, 111 of which have been subject to a positive decision. Indeed, it is largely because there have been ten litigations since 2006, if I remember correctly, especially because of the land-change scandal. Last year, 2016 17 properties were added to the list. The Free Party made its proposal last year. If we are talking about EUR 5 to 6 million that could be used to acquire immovable property, that would mean about 50 properties all over Estonia. That would be a reasonable pace. Yes, there are many options. Perhaps the first is to have the Riigikogu review and analyse whether it is right to continue the current practice or whether any exceptions should be created. Perhaps the procedures should not only be based on the order in which applications are received, but one might wonder whether any softer exceptions could be created, so that those who have been in line for more than ten years should not wait any longer. These may be technical or cosmetic improvements in a way, but they give landowners a lot of money. We are expected to be able to convince the landowners that the country is a trusted partner. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-14_U128	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 373. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 373 amendments at 4 p.m. on 1 March. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you to continue working Valentine's Day. This, of course, does not preclude heated and principled disputes, such as in committees. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.50 a.m.
