ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Currently, 45 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary. The following members of the government participate in the Question Hour: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Culture Indrek Saar and Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Today, I will give the debate on each subject an opportunity to put forward two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In recent days, it has again been remembered that the Centre Party has had a habit of speaking in different auditoriums. I am referring to this in the key to the past because it has happened in PBK, on Tallinn TV and, as we have seen recently, in Sputnik. The Minister of Education and the candidate for President of the Centre Party probably hoped that what was said to Sputnik would not reach other channels. If Sputnik had not published this interview for reasons unknown to us, this politician and man would have remained blackmailable. I very much hope that you understand the seriousness of the matter. How do you judge this interview and the Minister's attempt to hide it? What would you have done as head of defense if this interview hadn't gotten out in the first place, but you would have known the minister was lying?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. Point one, of course, such cases and interviews must be taken very seriously. That's what I do. Point two, different auditoriums, as you said in your question, can't tell different stories. Whether their views and principles are spoken in Estonian, English, Finnish or Russian, they must be the same. You also addressed Sputnik in your question. There is a common, clear and concrete understanding that neither the Government of the Republic nor Prime Minister Sputnik will give interviews. You asked what would have happened if this interview had remained, as you said, somewhat hidden. I can't imagine how interviews can be hidden. As I said at the beginning, the principles cannot be treated differently in different auditoriums. I spoke to Mailis Reps very thoroughly about this interview, both yesterday and today. He's regretted and apologized. I've said I can't justify lying or lying. He has told me that he had the lesson he will learn, i.e. it was a human error. That's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U5	Kristen Michal, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U6	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said that the Minister of Education and the candidate for President of the Centre Party have regretted giving this interview, but yet for some reason we do not really see regret over the content of this interview. It is certainly very regrettable to compare the repression of different peoples according to the political nature of the repression. I am personally disturbed, and I think that most of the Estonian people are disturbed, and probably you are disturbed by the fact that our Minister of Education reduces the suffering of the Estonian people when he talks about them to Russian intelligence or the Russian intelligence channel. There have been cases like this with regard to deportation. For example, some of the people of the Central Party have been lost when a vote has taken place on the subject. What's your assessment? Is the content of the talk that was in Sputnik's interview suitable for the Minister of Education of the Republic of Estonia? What do you say as Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U7	Thank you. If we are talking about deportations that have been very hard and tragically torn by our people in 1941 or 1949, which caused people to lose their lives, families to break up, and very many lives to be born, then it is clear that any action similar to deportation must also be strongly condemned. Deportation was certainly a crime against the people of Estonia and against all humanity. There is a principle that human suffering is not treated. I myself have given a very clear signal about the condemnation of deportations, when I have quite often participated in commemorative events in Nõmme, where the Pääsküla railway station has a memorial for the June deportation. There's no two ways of understanding here, there can't be another gram of understanding here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U8	Kristen Michal, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Prime Minister. I understand that it is not convenient to address this issue. Humanly, it must be difficult, especially when it comes to a close fellow fighter. Why am I asking this question, and why am I trying to soften the question a little bit? In my opinion, as Prime Minister, you must take a position and say something, because the Minister has repeatedly acted like this. He's given many such interviews, and it's already repeated behavior. In fact, it has made a member of the government of the Republic of Estonia blackmailed from outside, because the content of the interview was questionable: comparing deportation and the Holocaust, discussing what was political and what was not. What position do you take as head of government, should the Minister continue in his office? Is such a position and attitude appropriate in your government? Should such a person continue as Minister of Education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U10	Thank you. I refer to the fact that they are loyal to Estonia and are good experts in their field, professionals. Mailis Reps is the Minister of Education and Science, who holds this difficult position for the third time. He was Minister of Education from 2002 to 2003 and from 2005 to 2007. His political experience is also great because he has been a member of the Riigikogu since 2003. What else can I say about him? The education of Mailis Reps cannot certainly be left unchecked, as education is extremely important for the Minister of Education and Research. He is a Master of Laws at the Central European University since 1999 and Master of Public Relations at the University of Maastricht since 2000. If I'm not mistaken, both universities graduated from his cum laude. Now his loyalty to the Estonian state. Yes, I have known Mail for many years and I am convinced that she is a loyal citizen of the Estonian state. If you get very personal, I think he doesn't mind, you can say that the fact that he has created a large family in Estonia and is raising his children here shows loyalty to our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U11	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U12	Thank you. First of all, I very much agree with you that the same message must be sent to the various auditoriums, otherwise they will just get caught. I believe you have this recent incident in mind. I am also pleased about this, and I agree that the case of Mailis Reps must be taken very seriously. But what really is taking this seriously? It is not a question of whether Mailis Reps has a proper resume as a minister. No one in this room has questioned that. I too join the recognition choir that Mailis Reps does have many children, and that is admirable, but the question is quite different. The question that Kristen Michal asked and what I am now repeating, and to which I am asking for a specific answer, is this: has the person who has knowingly been caught in the public's vesting denied the interview, which actually took place, suitable for a member of the Government of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U13	Thank you. Speaking seriously, I meant that if a minister or a politician at all, in this case the Minister of Education and Science, is giving interviews, and if he gives them two, three, five or ten, it doesn't matter how much, then he should make it clear to himself who could be interviewed. Sputnik is the channel they don't give interviews. So this is definitely a lesson. Mailis Reps himself has said it was a human error. He gave the Postman misinformation, and he's apologized for it. If you ask me whether Mailis Reps is a dignified Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Estonia, I say that yes, Mailis Reps is a dignified Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U14	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U15	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Yesterday in this Chamber, at the initiative of the Free Party Group, a debate began on what characteristics the Minister could have and whether the President could have the right to shape his attitude towards potential ministerial candidates and, in exceptional cases, to reject the candidate. Undoubtedly, alongside a person's previous course of life and his traits, his skills are important to succeed in his ministry. As we have seen from this debate, your government ministers, despite a long experience, have problems communicating with the media. What media or communication training courses have you planned for your government ministers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U16	That is a very serious and good question. Thank you for that! I'll start with no one is infallible. When a person learns through life, participates in training and tries to improve himself, it is always commendable, whether it is a minister or a person in another position. Now, about what you asked. Indeed, these trainings are particularly strongly focused in 2017. Why? For the sake of our presidency. These trainings are more organised across the public sector. I know that very many members of the Cabinet will participate in a number of training sessions in preparation for the Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U18	The next question is the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Before the Liberty Manor complex was managed by Riigi Kinnisvara AS to build a residence for the President, such a state-important building, i.e. the restoration of the manor, this manor complex belonged to the administration of the open-air museum. It planned a centre of land architecture, a visitation centre and a digitisation centre. I know that the Estonian Open Air Museum Council met on 20 February. What are the plans for the Liberty Manor complex? Is it returned to the open-air museum? How will this issue be taken forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U20	Thank you for your question. Indeed, one of the topical issues in our area is what will become of the Liberty Manor complex. As you indicated, in 2014, when the Estonian Open Air Museum, supported by the Ministry of Culture, had decided to hand this complex over to Riigi Kinnisvara AS, it was a definite plan that it should become the residence of the President of the Republic of Estonia. The new knowledge is that the President's Office will not see Liberty Manor as the President's residence in the future, and that is why we need to re-orientate. It is quite clear that this is an important cultural heritage located on the territory of the Estonian Open Air Museum. We are very interested that it will be used, because any cultural heritage will be preserved in the best way when it is in use. The current situation of this building is rather poor if we look at it in the long term, so something needs to be done. But the change of plans occurred relatively recently. The Supervisory Board of the Estonian Open Air Museum managed to discuss it two days ago and turned to us, Riigi Kinnisvara AS and the Ministry of Finance. We have a plan to bring the parties together in the near future to think together about what future prospects might be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U21	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm going from here to the open-air museum asking about further plans. The Open Air Museum itself, with the support of the Ministry of Culture, has, as we know, designed and completed the possible development of the visitation centre at the level of the preliminary project. Its size in terms of storage was about 10,000 square metres, but it was also to be accompanied by the possibility of digitisation with conservation laboratories. Indeed, there was quite a lot of work done with it, the preliminary project was ready and there was a clear plan that the main project would also be carried out with the construction procurement. Will this development stop now and be abandoned? What about the plans for the joint storage facilities we're hoping for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U23	Thank you. No, I'm sure the plans won't stop. The question is whether the plans that were made a few years ago should remain exactly the same in the changed situation or whether corrective measures should be taken. It is quite clear that as far as the conservation and digitisation centre Kanu is concerned, their current rooms in the Old Town of Tallinn are not the most suitable because in the Old Town, some of the items that need preservation are not even accessible through the door, some of them cannot be driven into the Old Town. So it is certainly reasonable to plan to move to Kanut, where there are more modern and slightly wider opportunities. On the other hand, the topic of joint storage is currently under discussion across Estonia, but when we are talking about the territory of the open air museum, we are talking about the perspective of the joint storage facility in Northern Estonia. This is one of the issues that needs to be covered in changed circumstances. It is also necessary to negotiate how much of the planned future development should include "exhibition space" and how much should go to the conservation and digitisation centre and how much to the joint repository.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U24	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U25	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I'm gonna ask you another question about this mansion. What is the position of the Ministry of Culture, perhaps you can also say about the government's position on the question of whether or not the President's office wants a residence every time the President's office changes? Couldn't the Liberty Manor still be a center under the president's office, where foreign visitors could be accepted? From time to time, the Estonian state also needs to offer such services, especially when we are talking about a Presidency, which is the near future. What are your longer-term thoughts about both the president's institution and the Liberty Manor?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U26	Thank you. It is quite clear that these rooms will not be readjusted during the Presidency. But since this decision of the President's Office that they are not planning to introduce these rooms in the form we thought for some time here is very fresh, as I have already said, we have not reached this stage of the process in order to discuss jointly what the possible prospects are. Despite the fact that the Ministry of Culture thinks that the President's residence is dignified enough so that he can be located in one of the manor buildings belonging to the cultural heritage, our President's office cannot be prescribed how they plan these things. But these discussions are definitely ahead of us. I believe that the Office of the President and the Government of the Republic will contribute to finding a reasonable solution to what the buildings and spaces necessary for the functioning of the President's institution should be, and specifically the future prospects of the Liberty Manor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U27	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U28	Thank you. Good minister! Without wanting to underestimate the future of this particular house, I will simply bring another dimension to this discussion. In fact, the personal good relations of high leaders with their colleagues play a very important role in diplomacy. Representative living quarters, where colleagues can be invited to visit, are certainly a very, very big plus. Having visited several of my colleagues at home myself, I can assure you that this often leads to a new level of people-to-people relations, which, of course, also helps very much national diplomacy. Whether the president really lives there or not, that's different. But that's what I'm asking. The previous government's decision to establish this residence was knowingly made before the presidential elections, so that it would relate to the institution and not to the person. Has the Government of the Republic changed this decision, or is it going to change it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U29	I don't know what to say. The Government of the Republic has not been able to discuss this issue. Like I said, this subject is quite fresh. We will bring the parties involved together in different formats in the near future and start looking for solutions. As long as we do not have scenarios for how to proceed, it will also be difficult to put the government's decision on the table. It wants some time, because the news is fresh and, in some ways, definitely unexpected. I fully agree, as I pointed out earlier, that certain buildings and spaces are necessary to enable the President's institution to function. But it must be understood that an understanding of what these spaces should be, what equipment should be, how spectacular these spaces should be and whether the President should live in them or not can change. Therefore, since we see that one change has taken place, we need to discuss what current expectations and possible solutions could be in order to move forward and agree on a future perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U30	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U31	Now Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm answers and asks Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The municipality of Jõgeva is known to have decided to auction more than 200 hectares of land, including more than 100 hectares of land, which is currently rented by the Jõgeva seed centre of the Institute for Plant Production. What is the Ministry's position on whether there is a solution for achieving the objectives of the field of seed production in the past? This 117 hectares is quite an important part of the land now under seed crops, and if taken away, the Institute will become quite questionable and difficult to meet the seed-growing objectives. Then there will certainly be a reduction in the income they have now been able to use for research.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U33	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. This questioner's concern is also a ministry and a minister's concern. The result is that on 30 November last year the Jõgeva Vallavolikogu took a decision to dispose of four properties. One of them was a 117-hectare property, which we are talking about and which was used by the Estonian Plant Production Institute, who rented the land from the rural municipality. This is the decision of the parish council, which we cannot dispute in any way. They have not begun to realise these properties because 124 parish citizens have made a written appeal to stop this sale of land. Tomorrow, the Jõgeva Vallavoli Council will meet and they will discuss this matter. We have been in contact with the leaders of the Jõgeva municipality and have suggested that if this land is actually going to be sold, they would make a specific offer to the Ministry of Rural Affairs and we could then turn to the Government of the Republic to acquire this property for the Jõgeva Plant Farming Institute. But as long as this land is not put up for sale and we don't know the price, we can't talk about a sum or a specific arrangement. Clearly, the state cannot participate in this auction. If this land is auctioned, this auction will definitely take place between private companies, the state will not go there. But let's see what the future holds, tomorrow will probably bring some clarity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U34	Raivo Põldaru, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, if you look at the council documents, you will see that you will not take into account the appeal that people wrote, and the sale of this land will go. Well, maybe there's still some kind of arrangement. The Institute of Plant Production is a very necessary institute for applied research and as such for society, the effectiveness of the variety breeding work so far meets all international standards and the interest groups are satisfied with the work of the Institute, the knowledge created has been well disseminated within Estonia, but when reading the development plan of the Institute, it turns out that there are plenty of bottlenecks. How well have you been able to familiarise yourself with the problems of plant breeders in this short period of time and what can you do to enable the research system to serve crop production better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U36	Thank you. I've been more or less able to move myself, and I also know the investment needs that this institute has in general. The staff of the Institute are good, they recently received an innovation prize because they developed a variety of soybeans. This is an example of how hard they work. But nothing will change for the Institute if, for example, Tarmo becomes the owner of the land instead of Raivo, because the lease is valid until 2023 and there should be some certainty until then. But it is clear that it is not possible to separate the land units and start renting out to the field somewhere else. I hope that we can reach a reasonable compromise, and I think it is also in the interest of the municipality. Even if they put this land on the market, no one will give them any assurance that it will not be owned, for example, by some real estate company or other. Then the municipality would lose control of the land and could not, for example, trade with its farmers there in any way. But the parish council is independent in its decisions, and I don't want to interfere in their decisions in any way. If I had been the head of this government, I might have thought a little differently. But the administrative reform, which led to four municipalities joining, gave it an additional boost for sale.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U37	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister! After all, we know this practice that the state, the Government of the Republic, has allocated lands to local governments, whether for social activities or for compliance. I still do not understand why, as a minister, you have not taken the initiative or negotiated with the municipality government to buy the land necessary for the Estonian state and avoid the auction. I am convinced that if the vast majority of people are interested in income, it is possible to agree with him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U39	Thank you, my good colleague. I'm sorry, Urmas, you've also been a good colleague to me, but you could have dealt with this subject yourself, because that decision was made on 30 November last year, when you were still a minister. As we know, the council has its own way of selling assets, and they're following it. The fact that we have not negotiated with them is not true. I even called them today, and we're sending them a letter. I asked them to make a specific offer to the Ministry that we could go to the Government of the Republic reserve fund to ask for money. So, a good member of the Riigikogu, it is dealt with and actively. It is not true at all that we have not acted or taken the initiative on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U40	I'm going to finish this question... I won't stop. There's one more question. Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U41	I would like to be more specific. You mentioned November 30th and that Urmas Kruuse was then the minister. Having worked with Minister Urmas Kruus in several successive governments, I want to know whether I have misunderstood something or whether you have misunderstood something. As far as I know, on 30 November there was already Martin Repinski, who is not the same person as Urmas Kruuse. Can you confirm or disprove this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U42	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure I can confirm that because you know the date best. But the end of the year was so fast, and the ministers changed. I also apologize to Urmas because at this point Urmas was really no longer a minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U44	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The government's going to be quietly ticking for a hundred days. The government has already adopted some tax changes and some are still coming. Let me mention a few: next year there will be a exponential income tax and there will be a bank tax and a car tax. The three coalition parties have also abandoned six months' notice of changes in the tax environment and increased part of the excise duty rate compared to what was previously agreed. If you put all these changes together, you can see that they are quite remarkable. As a former coalition partner, I know that the IRL opposed these changes earlier. How did you manage to persuade the IRL to make any changes in the coalition negotiations concerning tax increases and predictability of the tax environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U46	Thank you, Honourable Asker, for this question. You used such a nice character word as "quietly" that a hundred days are starting to get quietly filled. I'd rather say it's getting a little busy. During these days, very fundamental decisions have been made. I would certainly like to thank and congratulate the Social Democratic Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, of course members of the Centre Party Group, but also the entire Riigikogu. Indeed, certain decisions have been made about tax changes in this government. To mention the most fundamental of these, I will take out the last letter from the Chancellor of Justice, in which he assessed the question of the constitutionality of the opt-out of social tax. But I also bring out a comprehensive reform of the income tax-free minimum, which is why the people of Estonia, whose gross wage is up to 1200 euros, will receive 64 euros more from the beginning of next year and will win all people whose gross wage is up to 1776 euros, i.e. 77% of Estonian society. Turning to the second part of your question, I say that, on the basis of the fundamental principle of the Government Union, the Government of the Republic has set in its programme the objective that the share of government expenditure in GDP will not increase. It also aims at an effective labour tax rate of around 34% in 2019, which means maintaining the tax burden at the level of 2015. The fact that Estonia's tax burden has increased steadily makes me more concerned, since 2011 when the Reform Party was driving the government. The explanatory memorandum to last year's State Budget Act states that this year the tax burden on the Estonian economy will reach about the same level as it was during the 2009 crisis. So this rise occurred during your reign.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U47	Remo Holsmer, first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U48	Thank you. I didn't really ask you about the tax burden. I will specify my question. The IRL is now running the Ministry of Finance and under his control all these tax changes have either come to the Riigikogu or are about to come here. I am thinking of bank tax, car tax and all the changes that have already been legalised. How have you managed to convince the IRL to bring all these things to the government and finally to bring them to the Riigikogu so that all these changes can be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U49	Thank you. I understand that your question was such a general philosophy. I tried to be very specific and to answer in substance. But the general principle is, I think, in any collective, in any team, two things are important. Firstly, whether the team wants to make decisions and is results-oriented, and secondly, whether the partners between you now, when you refer to a coalition of government, are partners of three political parties, that is to say, trust. I acknowledge and acknowledge that these three partners have a desire to make decisions and to be result-oriented, and there is trust between us. In short, these two things, I think, are fundamental in order for one organisation to work and work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U50	Remo Holsmer, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U51	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that your team is working as oiled. I will then ask you more simply: as Prime Minister, are you satisfied with the Minister of Finance, who is a strong advocate of the team, and with the drafts he has brought to the government and which the government has sent to the Riigikogu? For some reason, you are not prepared to comment on these tax changes. So let's go to the so-called personal level. You have pointed out that teamwork is very important, which, of course, I understand. Are you satisfied with all the drafts that have been brought to the government and then sent to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U52	Thank you. As a member of the government, I still follow the principle that the laws are passed by the Riigikogu, the legislative power. The principle of separation of powers is, in my opinion, extremely important here. We come to these various tax changes. You once touched on the issue of car tax. We here a month ago or, sorry, even more time ago said that there was less than two weeks between the fall of the previous government and the change of government, and this was certainly not enough time to go through the end of the car tax. I consider it right that politicians, too, can say that they are not infallible and that sometimes more analysis is needed. All three partners saw that it was more sensible to take one step backwards, to carry out thorough analyses and then come back to the Riigikogu with solutions. You also asked about this sense of team. I don't think it's less important to have a working, analytical and certainly heard cooperation between the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U53	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U54	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! You and your government have caused a lot of confusion in the Estonian tax environment. You wanted to lose the joint declarations, then you partially took that idea back. You mentioned the car tax here, it's already in the law, but now you're pulling back a little bit here. In the case of excise duties, legal proceedings will begin. Have you not considered taking time off, even for half a year, the Presidency of the European Union is also ahead of us, and would not come out again in May and June with new taxes? Let there be a tax truce, even for half a year or until 1 July. Consider a mortgage income tax, a bank tax and a sugar tax. Discuss them with the specialists. As you said, you are not infallible. Perhaps you can even promise us that you will not come up with new taxes this semester?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U55	Thank you, Honourable Aivar Sõerd. You're always asking very interesting questions and putting me in a difficult position, but I'm modestly trying to answer your question. First of all, in some ways this tax truce has been in place for the last 17 years. Perhaps one of the parties liked it very much, but I think Estonia is ready to look at a slightly wider picture and discuss different topics, including tax policy issues. You said that only the Presidency should be focused and no other decisions should be taken. I think that an independent Estonian state is not self-evident. This requires effort, work, and decision-making all the time. Also such an important event as the Presidency, although, no doubt, looking outside of Estonia, is that our greatest task can not mean that we will no longer make decisions within our country. We still do and we consider it important how our people and businesses, such as farms, are doing and we consider it important how Estonian culture is doing. It's all very important. You said that you think there is a lot of confusion in this tax package. I shall give just one concrete example as a counterweight. I have received quite a lot of feedback from one sector in particular, I mean tourism and accommodation facilities. After all, a few months ago, the previous government had a plan to forcefully increase the VAT rate for accommodations from 9% to 14%. As we know, the current government has decided that we will not do so. This will certainly contribute very much to the development of Estonian entrepreneurship in one particular sector. There are still examples. I certainly do not agree that we should close this working process. On the contrary, the pace must be maintained and decisions made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U56	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Estonia has so far been known for a very good business environment, the most important component of which may have been the simplicity and clarity of the tax system. When you talk to any Estonian entrepreneur or foreign entrepreneur who has invested in Estonia, it turns out that this is one important reason why it is worth doing business here. But now, no matter where we talk to anyone in Võrumaa, Saaremaa or Harju County, or we can go on a few houses right here and talk about it in the Chamber of Commerce or the Employers' Confederation, it turns out that everyone talks the same thing: they don't know what happens anymore, and I don't invest just in case, because they come up with new taxes and I don't know when and how they're coming, they're gonna be pawn tax and they're gonna be banking tax. You have given an example of tourism, but tourism is not the most important thing, although it is certainly an important sector. The most important thing is industry, but the industry complains. Why are you breaking it, the good system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U58	Thank you, good questioner, for this serious question. I think that the competitive advantage of economics and entrepreneurship still begins with people, people's skills and knowledge. I don't know if you just had a glitch here or not, but the business environment is improving, it's getting easier and clearer, there's less bureaucracy. I'll start with the self-employed. For them, very many simplifications have already been adopted at the level of the Cabinet Decisions. I mention the opening of the business account. There is a serious debate about the fact that production, where there is high energy use or much gas, can make certain exceptions in order to bring foreign investments to Estonia. I can't get over or around the extra investment program. I just responded to your good colleague, Aivar Sõerd, about stopping the increase in VAT on accommodation facilities. In fact, an example of the tourism sector is that a proper international conference and tourism centre is needed in Estonia. It comes in 2019 when the city hall is fixed. We attach importance to infrastructure investment projects, and after all, an additional investment plan has been adopted. The government has clearly said that this huge investment made in Rail Baltic must come to Estonia, because it also means better connections. I also mention the last mile or internet connection, the Internet must also be taken to a farm behind a forest tree. All these things increase competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U59	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U60	The next question is Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U61	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Last week, Valentine's Day morning, I listened to Rain Radio. Minister Tarmo Tamm reported there that he was running for chairman of the Põlva Council. However, this is a very difficult period when Estonia holds the Presidency of the European Union. Are you taking the Minister's office and the Presidency of the European Union seriously enough when your real priorities are elsewhere? You have now made it a very clear priority to apply as Chairman of the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U62	Thank you for a good question. I take the Minister's office very seriously. I don't have to make any extra efforts to apply to the local council because I'm a well-known person in that area. For 11 years I ran Põlva City and six years I ran Põlva County. I don't have to do any more work there. I don't think it's gonna take a lot of time these days to fill out the paperwork you need to run for it. But the question was more about the priorities of the Minister for Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The highest priority is to ensure the competitiveness of Estonian farmers. The Prime Minister has not said that we have cancelled the increase in diesel excise duty for 2018, which will directly affect farmers at around EUR 35 million. This is one example. We have restored farmers' transitional payments, or top-ups. This year they will be paid EUR 19.9 million. For two million, we pay the breeding premium for pigs. Crisis assistance, i.e. adaptation support (€16.2 million), is expected to be paid as of 1 April. These are direct measures to ensure that our farmers are competitive and that their competitiveness is maintained. Another important issue is export. In terms of exports, a cooperative dairy industry is also being built. Luckily it's known that two teams want to compete there, so it'll definitely work. There are very positive signs in the fisheries sector, which have been well-smartly and strongly invested. Fish are exported to 58 countries, for example. There are more and more examples, so exports and the competitiveness of businesses are what we mean in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U63	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U64	Thank you. Good minister! Unfortunately or fortunately, the work of the Chairman of the Council is not just a paperwork. Your very clear objective indicated that you intend to do the work of the Chairman of the Council. I thank you for supporting the Free Party Group's draft on 23 March 2016 with six members of your group, including the current Minister, Kadri Simson. It was intended to break the law on decoy ducks. The goal was that if someone turned out to be elected, his previous mandate would be revoked. Why has there been such a change of heart, and yet you have decided to take the position of a decoy duck?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U65	Thank you. The honest answer is, I'm not going to decoy anything, and what happens when I'm elected can't be spoken of until I've been elected. For example, if I do not turn out to be elected in the 2019 Riigikogu elections, I will go to the local council and start promoting local life. It's perfectly normal. This law is valid, which I do not like, of course, and I voted against it in the Riigikogu, but it is important that there is fair competition in politics. If the people of the Free Party are to apply for membership of the Riigikogu in Põlva, for example, but the Centre Party has no one to oppose them, would that be fair competition? That's the honest answer. I honestly said I was running, and if I were elected, maybe I'd be the chairman of the council. But today, no one can say for sure that I'm going to be chairman of the council or anyone else. I can't feel so sure of myself even in Knee. But be fair competition: if all members of the Riigikogu say they are not running, I promise you I will not be running either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U66	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Rural Affairs! I was a little surprised by the application story, because I remember my ministering time. The Minister for Rural Affairs, compared with many other ministers, has so many foreign missions and meetings that the question arises of how to find this time at all. But you said very nicely that the competitiveness of Estonian farmers needs to be improved, and you also referred to transitional payments. In Lithuania, the sad story happened that the more transitional payments were paid, the lower the price of milk fell. I hope that you have already participated in some Councils. If you look at the long term, you will understand that transitional subsidies in the European context and in export terms will not improve competitiveness. What are the real plans to increase the competitiveness of Estonian farmers? Why has it not already started and, for example, funds have been added to support rural development investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U68	Thank you for a good question. You think that additional investments will not improve the competitiveness of our farmers. Yeah, well, our perceptions are different. Our dairy herd has decreased by about 12,000 dairy cows, the number of pigs has decreased by tens of thousands. The rest of Europe will pay additional transitional support, but Estonia has not paid. In part, this is the result. After all, it is not basically important to the farmer where he gets the money, whether he receives it directly from production, or whether he receives from the State the support that the European Union rules allow to pay, even though they do not allow it to be paid for very long. That is what it means to support this sector in order to ensure that conditions are equal and that the sector remains competitive. But I have to say, our perceptions are different. The 70 million euros that the previous governments failed to pay out, although it would have been possible to pay, have devastated the wallet of Estonian farmers. I would still recommend talking to farmers to hear how many bills they have not paid and how much investments they have not made. If a farmer fails to make an investment, he does not do so because he is in a bad mood, but because he simply cannot compete and has no money for the investment. But that is what this measure is designed in the European Union to help and support those countries whose area aid is significantly lower than in the old countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, the previous government did not do so in three years. The 70-million-dollar hole is looking at us and it is having a very negative impact on investment and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U69	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke very nicely about the activities and plans of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and also about what has been done. But what are your ministry and specifically your own initiatives and messages? What would you like to highlight during the Estonian Presidency, what to discuss with other European countries and what to decide about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U71	Thank you for your question. Of course, Estonia has its own position. The debate is ongoing, for three months all agricultural organisations and farmers will be able to submit proposals which will be analysed by the European Commission around July. Put together such a composite list. Right now, everyone is allowed to contribute to what our interests are. It is certainly one of our interests to harmonise common agricultural aid. Our other interest is that we can have more say in the supply chain so that the producer receives a higher price. There is also the theme of greening and other topics are still. We will, of course, take them out and they will come to the debate. We may go down in history in this sense, that during our Presidency, a document will come to the Council's table setting out the frameworks for how to pursue a common agricultural policy. Unlike other policies, such as foreign policy or monetary policy, agricultural policy is almost entirely shaped in Brussels. That must be taken into account. That's where the budget comes in. But we're actively talking about it. I have already met with Commissioner Hogan, I have also met with agriculture ministers from the countries holding the Presidency, both Austrian and Bulgarian ministers who were in Tallinn. So the work is active and the local government elections do not mislead me in this work. These things have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U72	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U73	Jaak Madison will be able to ask another question, and the Prime Minister will also be able to answer that question. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U74	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I come back to the composition of the government, especially as regards your promise, which you made on 21 November 2016, when you visited the Riigikogu asking for powers so that you could form a new government. So you promised a new political culture. I assume that political culture also means responsibility for its actions and words, an important part of political culture. This is also an important part of advanced democracy and we definitely want to represent it here in the Republic of Estonia. Is it part of good political culture when one member of the government, Minister of Education and Science, reduces the historical tragedy of the Estonian people, reduces the share of deportation compared to other tragedies, and reduces its role? Should such a mistake, followed by lying that there has never been a speech, be followed by material responsibility, apart from simply apologizing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U75	Thank you, good questioner! At the beginning of Question Time, I debated the circa for ten minutes, but I will, of course, give you the answer again. First of all, deportation brought serious suffering and tragedy to the Estonian people, and it was an act against humanity. As a result, Estonia lost many of its countrymen, many families shattered, and many lives were never born. I myself have participated several times in the commemorative days of the deportation. Deportation must be clearly condemned. I understand that the focus of the question was once again directed towards Mailis Reps. As far as I can tell, he's said he's sorry he didn't give any specific information from the very beginning to whom he was interviewing. It was a human error and the Minister has assessed his actions. I would certainly stress that Sputnik will not be interviewed today or tomorrow by the current government, including the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U76	I will conclude on this issue. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U77	Good day to all those who have not yet met today! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U78	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt. The issue of questioning is non-compliance with the immigration limit. The statistics sent to our group by the Minister for the Interior show that in 2016 3828 third-country nationals first established in Estonia had been admitted to Estonia, the immigration limit was 1317 and the total number of fixed-term residence permits issued 6711. There is a very large difference between these figures. We therefore want answers to four questions. Firstly, why has the country set a limit on immigration when the actual number of immigrants is several times higher than the limit? Secondly, why are people who come to the country on study visas and who complete their studies and apply for a residence permit on other grounds not covered by an immigration quota? Thirdly, why are people excluded from the immigration limit, whose request has already been refused due to the fulfilment of the quota for the previous year (t) which is why certain groups are excluded from the immigration limit for foreigners year-on-year? Fourthly, does the Minister consider it to be in line with the legislator's will that, under the name of exceptions, the annual immigration quota is exceeded five to six times? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U79	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the legislative initiative of the Reform Party Group. This concerns the amendment of § 41 of the Tax Administration Act. I would remind you that in 2015, the Reform Party, the Centre Party, the IRL and the Social Democrats in the Riigikogu decided to write into the Tax Administration Act that there should be six months between the adoption and entry into force of the tax change. This law was valid happily until the end of last year. In fact, it will continue to apply, but basically it ended when the new coalition decided to ignore the six-month rule, passed the cluster law and enforced the social tax increase in less than two weeks. The Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise wrote to the Riigikogu last week that there is some uncertainty between the same paragraph, i.e. the Tax Administration Act and the explanatory memorandum. To describe this ambiguity more precisely, saying in Estonian, in order to describe the exceptional cases in which taxes can be changed for less than six months by notifying them, and to write them in the text of the law, our proposal is before you. I hope that the Committee on Monetary Affairs and all those parties that once supported this principle will now support it. However, in order for the text of the Act to be more precise, I have a draft to amend § 41 of the Tax Administration Act. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U81	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U82	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the 12 members of the Reform Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, the subject of which is the possible transfer of educational responsibilities of rural governments. In fact, we have heard that rural governments will soon be liquidated. Among other things, so far the competences of rural governments have been very important in the organisation of education. The previous government planned to liquidate the rural governments from 1 July 2018, but now this deadline has been put forward for six months, which creates uncertainty and confusion in many areas. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I have more information on educational matters. It worries me that it is not known whether, to whom and how these tasks are transferred. No negotiations, no consultations have been launched, and no more detailed description of the tasks that actually need to be carried out. There are therefore four specific questions in the question, to which we also ask specific answers. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U83	I have adopted one draft and two inquiries. We will continue to deal with them under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 77 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U84	We will continue the first reading of the Draft Act amending the Government Act 354 initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Yesterday, the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Helmut Hallemaa, made a presentation by the Commission, but he did not answer any questions. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U85	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U86	Maybe your display of remote control will give you the right mood to ask questions. There are questions. Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U87	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I have a question for you, Helmut. Don't you think the Free Party started off wrong? In fact, the problem is much wider. I think this should be resolved at European Union level. For, you see, it has become clear that, for example, the Swedish Prime Minister is a secondary-educated welder. Perhaps the Free Party should call on Members of the European Parliament to initiate any changes there. Other European countries should not be as disgusting as we are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U88	Thank you. Estonia is a member of the European Union and we can certainly learn from the experiences of other countries. Since we expect the morning to be smarter than the night, we're smarter today than yesterday. But there was actually a story yesterday about what the drafters thought needed to be done. There were also many questions in the hall. On one last point, I said, and in my presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I quote that to be politically correct, the position of another member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, who was also of the opinion that this draft law should be rejected. So in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we reached a relatively unanimous opinion that the draft law proposed in this form should be rejected (9 in favour, 1 abstention and 1 against).
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U89	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U90	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Commission waitress! I will continue with Mr Repinski's question, which was quite interesting. He proposed that the European Parliament be guided by the need to regulate the powers of the Member States as to how they could appoint ministers to the government. Do you think it is right to start regulating requirements and standards in the European Union as a whole, for example, and in any way restrict the possibility of designating ministers if the appointment goes against any European Union regulation? Do you think this is the right direction? Here's another question. At the moment, the draft concerns the appointment of ministers, which will increase the President's mandate, but perhaps it could also come up with a proposal that the President should have the authority to call someone back from office, for example when a minister is lying or making strange statements in a pro-Kremlin propaganda channel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U91	Thank you. I already mentioned yesterday that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs addressed this issue on 14 February 2017. No committee will probably deal with matters very carefully in specific cases, so we could not deal with this issue on 14 February. I already complained yesterday about my difficult fate that I cannot speak here as freely as the main rapporteur, Jüri Adams, because I am here as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and as a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and cannot speak about my own convictions or opinions. As far as relations with the European Union are concerned, we have them properly regulated. 1 July s. a we are the President-in-Office of the European Union, so that we can practice the way in which European Union affairs are actually to be carried out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U92	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U93	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! It is true that you are the Commission's rapporteur and you will present to us, in particular, the discussions that have taken place in committee, the procedural decisions that have been taken and the positions that have been discussed, but I would remind you that you are an independent Member who, if you wish, can also express your own personal position if you mark that this was not discussed in committee, but that is your personal position. Perhaps you can say your personal position, regardless of the debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U94	Thank you. I have, despite the fact that I am a relatively new Member, on quite a number of occasions reflected my personal views on this board. It is also possible to see on the Riigikogu website how many times I have covered them here. I presented my personal position on this matter as a rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, quoting myself yesterday as well. I was undoubtedly very happy to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U95	Martin Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U96	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear waitress, Taking this opportunity, I'm going to go to Jaak Madison. (I'll do it because my name has been used here too.) I think it would be very reasonable to delegate this precisely to the European Union, where it could then be regulated. It seems from this bill that we do not trust enough our current Prime Minister or any potential prime ministers. In our view, the Prime Minister should not be able to decide for himself who ministers could be in his government and who he would like to invite to work for his team. Maybe the president wouldn't be able to do it if he did. Perhaps, just in case, we are still asking the European Union to decide this. I think that would be much better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U97	Ambassador Repinski was currently wasting the working hours of the Riigikogu. If it is time for questions, questions will be asked, speaking time will come later. There was no question at the moment and there is no need to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U98	I can answer quite generally. We have set up a committee on problems, a committee on the development of developments in state reform, which at its first meeting was concerned, on the one hand, with the issue of joint action between communities as close to people and people, and, on the other hand, with the institution of the President. All these things, this whole palette, are definitely on the table in the National Reform Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U99	Thank you. Helmut Hallemaa found the question. Very good! There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U100	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday in this Chamber, quite often, the argument that the honourable Free Party initiated this draft law was specifically due to my colleague Martin Repinski that such an individual case deserves to be treated separately. How do you argue here, don't you? After all, there is world history, and we all know this wonderful story about the Vatican when it turns out that the pope has become a woman. He was a Pope, of course he played a man named Johannes (number I don't remember). The problem was that he started giving birth during one of the events and died the same day. But after that, the cardinals decided that, since it is not excluded that another woman might be among them, it would be necessary to carry out a check on the chosen pope. It looked like the Pope was sitting on a chair with a nice round hole in it, no underwear on it, and a humble monk had to come near him and see if he was okay. It lasted just as long as the pope, who must have had dozens and dozens of STDs in his life, passed out in front of that monk. Then the checks were closed, and it was decided that there might be another way. But there's an internship like that in any case. Yeah, you can approach it on an individual basis. The second option is, of course, that we forget about specific cases and talk about the system. People need to be controlled. Even today, the Polynesian islands have tribes that have a tradition that young boys who want to be men and marry have to climb a 30-meter tree, tie a liana to their feet, and then jump down from there. This is how you control masculinity and whether young men are suitable for adult life. We could do something like that. I think the people of Estonia would look with great interest at our ministers jumping from a height of 30 metres, tied to a liana. But this is a little naive, because if someone thinks we're under control, they don't know life at all. I'm sure everything that concerns me is beautifully archived: all my phone calls, text messages, someone collecting articles, someone reviewing my computer. So it's okay. The question is, how does this information end up? I am still aware that I have not experienced it myself, but some ministers have been telling me over the years that if it is a secret from NATO, a conversation on this subject may take up to seven hours, for example. Is this control not enough? Although, in itself, this idea of more control is one that is difficult to say no to. I'd like you to extend the time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U101	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U102	But in the case of this bill, the text I read here bothers me. We talked about this quite a lot yesterday, and the debate lasted over an hour. This text uses a word such as'reliability' that the future minister must be credible. Once again, the law cannot contain standards that are neither measurable nor comparable. Reliable who thinks? In my life, no minister has been credible in the opinion of the opposition, but all ministers have been credible in the opinion of the coalition. It's almost always been like this. I must be credible in the opinion of my constituents and you must be credible in the opinion of your constituents. There's no other way, it's a democracy. So how do you set this standard so it can be fixed at some grade? Or the capacity of the person is either incapacitated or not. Yesterday I made this example of a little pregnant. I think it's impossible to be a little pregnant, pregnant or not pregnant, isn't it? My colleague Adams began to talk about the change in life's ability to function, that at some point it is minimal, then it will increase, and that as age grows, it may decrease. Excuse me, but are we going to hire a minister as a child? He's in a solid, reliable age. How can a bill with "full capacity" be supported? Another thing that is very close to my heart: 'freely speaks Estonian'. This raises an interesting question as to what kind of Estonian she speaks freely. Maybe he can speak the language and talk for hours about nothing. I know there are a couple of colleagues in this room who are capable of doing this kind of thing. At the same time, there are people who speak less but write more. Do they speak written? Does this freebie look like the same level of language as the president? I am very afraid that a person who works as a charger in a factory may not understand at all what the wise man who speaks the Estonian language is speaking there. So the freedom to speak a language is not enshrined in any law. It's impossible to measure, it's impossible to judge. So if you'll excuse me, the idea that we should increase control is if we think that we are not being controlled enough (I certainly do not believe it), yet somehow acceptable, but the way they want to do it here is something else. Recently I got a little smarter, I learned the longest term in Estonian for a one-word illness, that is hippopotomonstrossesquipadal phobia. There are several hundred phobias in the encyclopedia, but it could also be added to the ministerial phobia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U103	Thank you. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U104	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the group, and I do so primarily because there are more of you today, honourable colleagues, in this Chamber than I did yesterday on the same item. I will also take this opportunity to respond to and comment on some of the statements made in the previous minutes. I remembered an Estonian nation's wisdom. It sounds like you're gonna clean your front door first and then you're gonna come clean my front door. I think this is the answer to Mr Martin's question, which should not be resolved at European level. The Free Party would like the Estonian yard to be wiped clean and we would not have such embarrassing episodes as recently with the Minister of Agriculture. This episode, I think, in this we are all in the same mind, did neither joy nor honor to any of the parties involved, nor to anyone in the government, nor to any of us. The bill doesn't apply for anything special, something extra-original. It seeks very simple things: so that our President can make a decision in essence, and that he has the opportunity, and also the duty, to check the ministerial candidates proposed by the Prime Minister, as the President controls the officials whom he himself appoints, or the other worthy persons whom he presents to us for approval in this Chamber. In the future, we would like to see the possibility that an inappropriate person might enter the ministry in the bud. I particularly liked the part of yesterday's report by my colleague Jüri Adams where he spoke about the principle of balance of powers. When we usually talk about the principle of separation of powers, Mr Adams felt it was important that one 'public body' should present and the other confirmed, that would be a perfectly good practice. I also enjoyed my colleague using this already worn rubber seal word in the sense that we do not want the President to approve ministers as rubber stamp. It's not appropriate, it's not good, it's not good. I repeat, we do not want any supernatural powers from the candidate for minister. We want him to speak Estonian and to be spiritually healthy, to have no valid judicial punishment and to be trustworthy. I also admit that the word'reliability' can have a lot of meanings. Here I fully agree with the previous speaker. This can also be seen in our own behaviour, as well as in the behaviour of taxpayers' money placed at our disposal is considered to be correct and reliable. What is credible and acceptable behaviour in the opinion of the voters of a member of the Riigikogu elected from Narva is certainly not reliable and acceptable behaviour in the opinion of the voters of a member of the Riigikogu elected from Haapsalu. Cultures are so diverse and inevitable. However, I would like to make it clear that the initiators of the draft meant, above all, that this person would not be involved in any suspicion of corruption. That is what we have in mind, in particular, and I think that this is a very necessary and worth taking into account. I, dear colleagues, on behalf of the Free Party Group, propose to you not to reject this draft and to proceed with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U105	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to reject the draft 354 at first reading. This proposal must be voted on by the Assembly. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 354 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 57 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 8 against and no one abstained. The proposal was supported and Draft 354 falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U106	The first reading of draft 343 of the Riigikogu's decision to "establish a committee of problems for the Riigikogu to examine problems related to population decline', submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, begins. The initiators' waitress is Jaak Madison, member of the Riigikogu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On 23 November last year the members of the three political groups, the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Estonian Free Party and the Estonian Reform Party submitted a draft decision of the Riigikogu in order to form a committee of problems in the Riigikogu that would work through problems related to population decline. The task of this committee would be to examine the fundamentals of national policies, the development plans in the field, the development plans and programmes in the area of governance, and to propose improvements. It is also the task of the Commission to analyse and propose the planning and use of financial resources and, if necessary, to propose amendments to the law and to assess the impact of the activities and their sustainability. I will now be more specific about the purpose of the Commission's action, which everyone can also read in the explanatory memorandum. The biggest problems facing Estonia today are the declining birth rate and population, which makes the population ageing and its recovery potential worse. The rapid decline of the population calls into question all our achievements in the longer term. According to the population register, 86% of the municipalities lost their population two years ago and only Tallinn won the population. There is still current emigration. This is compounded by the problems with the neo-migrants. Unqualified action in demographic policy nullifies the progress made in other areas. The budget strategy paper prepared by the Ministry of Finance last year states that the underage population, i.e. the number of children up to 17 years of age, will continue to decline. While at the beginning of 1990 the total number of children was nearly 416000, at the beginning of 2014 there were only about 243600 children. This is the result of the general contraction of life in rural municipalities and small towns. These Estonian hotspots were highlighted at the conference 'Estonian demographic status and trends' organised by the Estonian population support group held in the conference hall of the Riigikogu on 17 February 2016. The fall in sillyness threatens the sustainability of the nation, economic development and security of Estonia. The modern population model speaks of wholesale dependence, i.e. the economic environment, home, media work, domestic and foreign security, and so on, a total of 17 to 18 areas, all of which have an impact on population policy. The development of such complex solutions requires cooperation between all parties and society as a whole. There is a distinction between organisational-administrative population policy measures and specific measures to increase population and birth rate. The existence of the former is a prerequisite for the development and implementation of specific measures. Unfortunately, this aspect of population policy has not been given the necessary attention in Estonia. Very many of the right ideas have remained, because it is not just the institution that will implement them. The problem committee of the Riigikogu population and the ministerial government committee by the executive power, together with the working group attached to it, could help to remedy this deficit. The Problem Committee would work with the Estonian population support group of the Riigikogu. However, the support group of the Riigikogu population is not enough; it needs to be accompanied by the creation of a committee of problems with greater rights and opportunities. The main task of the state as determined by the Constitution requires the establishment of a permanent population committee in the Riigikogu. Before doing so, the committee of problems set up in the Riigikogu would perform its tasks. In assessing population problems, we experience a confusion that has hindered the will of politicians to seek solutions. A sculpted proof of the attitudes that existed in the composition of Riigikogu XII is provided in the online publication 'Collection of the People's Crisis' on the reply letters of the members of the Riigikogu to a three-fold inquiry into the population crisis: only 21 out of 101 received replies. These include members of the National Defence Commission. This was the only committee that put the response to the request on the agenda. The problem committee's task would be to keep demographic issues in social focus and to look for a common part of political parties here in the same way, as the defence policy has developed a willingness to spend at least 2% of GDP on defence. Both Estonian and international experts must be involved in describing the demographic situation in Estonia and seeking solutions. Research must be used to find solutions to demographic challenges. Members of the Commission, which is a committee of concern, would have the right to request from the Government of the Republic and the authorities of the executing State the information necessary for their work. They could also request a member of the Government of the Republic to attend a meeting of the Commission in order to be able to obtain information on matters falling within the authority of a Member of the Government. Officials and other persons of the government authorities could also be invited to the meeting of the Commission for information and advice. The output of the Commission's work should be real amendments to the fundamentals and laws of national policies. It is important to complete the composition of the population problem committee in a cross-party manner: all political parties in the Riigikogu should be represented there. In July, Estonia will become the rotating Presidency of the European Union. Then Estonia is responsible for organising the work of the Council of the European Union. It is necessary for the state to be able to organise population policy in its own country by then before it can do so throughout the European Union. It is necessary for the state to have set up and operate the necessary institutions to deal with the population crisis by then. Estonia is credible among the members of the European Union if it is able to cope with its population problems. Then we could set an example for other countries. At present, in the 1980s, a large generation of women have seen the light of life, which is likely to have caused the extra births that have resulted from parental benefits. In the future, it will be more difficult to carry out this task, as the number of potential births will have doubled. The committee could have six members, according to the number of political groups in the Riigikogu. As a rule, each political group has one seat in the Committee on Special Affairs, Investigation and Issues. The draft terms of reference of the problem committee to be set up shall expire on 1 January 2019. For more information, the last night, the members of the Estonian Free Party Group withdrew from this draft. Thus, the draft is currently pending at the initiative of the members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U108	Questions for the initiators' waitress. Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U109	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You indicated that this committee was necessary to tackle the problems of demographic decline. However, data for the last two years show that the population register did not decrease but increased. If anyone is questioning the population register's data there may not all be accurate, then I say that the Statistical Office has reached a similar conclusion. In both last and last year, the Estonian population did not decline, but increased. Do you deny this claim, find that the data of the Statistical Office and the Population Register are not true, or are you just a little behind in time and living in time two years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U110	Thank you, Reverend Asker! According to Statistics Estonia, Estonia's population has really increased, but it has not increased because of the disease. Estonia's population has grown mainly because of migration. For example, last year, more than 6,000 people came to live in Estonia from other countries, as I remember. Nearly 4,000 people came from the countries of the former Soviet Union: about 1,800 people from Russia and about 1,700 people from Ukraine, apart from their people from Belarus and other former Eastern bloc countries. Thus, the population increased, but not due to an increase in birth rates.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U111	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U112	Honourable Chairman! Good waitress! My question stems from the current reality in the Riigikogu. We have already formed an analogous committee, one of whose vice-chairmen is the representative of the Conservative People's Party in Parliament. Is there any difference between these two committees, and if so, what is it like? Population issues outlined in the report are acute and important for a small country and for the people, that is undoubtedly right. But I would like to know if your party wants to get a chair on the new committee. You have stressed independence and independence, and that is what you also stressed to me when you asked me questions after the last presentation. Are you so independent that you did not support the previous Commission, but support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U113	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, the Commission, which has already been set up, is dealing with the same problems in order to achieve the same objectives. At the same time, I recall the 21st of November last year when Jüri Ratas came to ask Parliament for powers to form a new government. I can happily quote to you what he said exactly: 'I really wish to change Estonia's political culture and to lose the understanding that the wrong man cannot do the right thing. If the opposition initiates a constructive and constructive change of law, we will discuss it rather than staggeringly reject it. I'm not saying it in my mouth, I'm saying it in my heart. ' The reality is that this draft decision was put into proceedings on 23 November 2016. The draft for the creation of this committee, which has already been set up, was submitted to the proceedings on 12 January 2017, almost two months later. It was initiated for the same purposes as those requested by the members of our draft coalition groups. I would like to say that this committee is dealing with the same issues, but although it is said that the opposition should be involved in substantive discussions and problem-solving, our exactly the same draft was rejected in the committee's drawer, where it was as long as possible, and the draft of the members of the Centre Party, the Social Democratic Party and the IRL Group were previously put into the procedure. So for this reason, too, this bill is currently under discussion here today. I recall very well the question posed by the chairman of the committee during the debate in committee. It was very relevant. He was interested that if there are 12 members, 6 main members and 6 alternates on the committee already set up, and just as much members should be on the new committee according to the draft, is it not too much if so many members of the Riigikogu are dealing with a similar problem? I stress that the survival of the Estonian nation is a primary objective. It is our duty according to the Constitution. When 24 of the 101 members of the Riigikogu deal with this problem, it is certainly not much. As far as the election of vice-chairmen and presidents is concerned, the elections are, of course, secret. Everyone shall be able to stand as chairman or vice-chairman of the committee. How the votes are distributed is already a question of democratic elections. However, neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum contains any words as if the members of the Conservative People's Party had the ambition to hold the chair of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U114	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U115	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! In my opinion, however, we are in a somewhat absurd situation at the moment, so I will also allow myself the next question. The salary of a member of the Riigikogu is known to be essentially frozen, which is why some colleagues have sometimes expressed some concern. But the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the committees receive a little more pay than the simple members of the Riigikogu. Have you calculated how many more problem committees should be formed so that each member of the Riigikogu can be either chairman or vice-chairman of at least one of the committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U116	This calculation did not have to be carried out during the preparation of this draft. However, the chairman or vice-chairman may also be elected, for example, as chairman or vice-chairman of a political group and may also be a vice-chairman or chairman of another committee. So there may be overlaps. In financial terms, it would, of course, be useful. Our group would certainly agree to discuss this issue if it were to come up with a draft, even with members of the Free Party Group. As regards the Vice-Chairman and Chairman of the Commission and the cost of setting up and reducing it, I think this is the forum for discussion. This could certainly be discussed and, if possible, come up with an appropriate draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U117	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good performer! There's a great character in Tori's mythology who's called I've already quoted him a few times. He was asked if a 10-year-old child couldn't read, what to do. The old-fashioned man said to make a new kid quick, so maybe it'll be all right. The logic of common sense in hell is different: if a child exists, he must be taught to read. In other words, if there is an institution that has certain framework and direction for action that is very close to what you are talking about, then the institution should be given tasks and put to work. For the rest, your thinking was quite pleasant to my soul, like a balm, because 25 years ago I wrote about the same address. True, I wanted to create a problem lab at the University of Tartu, not a committee. That did a lot. These people had competence, even possessed terminology, and understood what population matters were. It was more meaningful. Why don't you give them the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U119	Thank you, Honourable Asker. As far as the allocation of funds is concerned, it is certainly an appropriate proposal. I believe that the new government, which has been in office since the end of November, is trying to find additional resources in the state budget to meet these necessary objectives. What can I possibly have against that? I'm sure I'm for it. However, as far as copying is concerned, the creation of a single formation is similar, I already mentioned parliamentary democracy in reply to one of the previous questions. Perhaps I am too naive to take the statements of the incoming Prime Minister truthfully and seriously, but as I said, our draft was tabled on 23 November. The draft to make this additional element of the proposal was already set up in January, almost two months later, as a result of the vote that took place in this very Chamber last week. Therefore, I think it is right that the draft proposed by the members of the opposition groups is here today in this large Chamber and we can highlight the bottlenecks that made this second formation even possible. I think that there can never be too little discussion of issues concerning the preservation of the Estonian people, the Estonian nation and finding solutions to these problems together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U120	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U121	Thank you. Good waitress! I will continue, however, on the name and purpose of this committee. You and I understand in the same way that Estonia's population is not currently shrinking, but rather growing a little, because of immigration, but at the same time it is negative. If I look at the name and purpose of this committee, it seems to me that it may seem wrong to have the impression that the initiators of the draft are seeking to increase the population, precisely by means of immigration. Do you agree that the Commission's objective should actually be to work out the problems of increasing the birth rate and increasing the birth rate and not just the problems of population change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U122	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I am pleased that you have agreed with the facts that I have put forward, according to which Estonia's population has not increased over the last few years because of the growth of immigration. According to this draft, the main objective is, of course, to increase ivet and birth rate in Estonia, not to stabilise the population by promoting immigration. You are therefore absolutely right that this is a question of promoting the issue of the issue. Everyone will be able to propose improvements and supplement the draft after the first reading, because nothing is ever so perfect that it can not be improved. I think that any proposal you make to improve the draft is worthwhile and could be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U123	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U124	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, This debate here today has to do with the fact that the draft, which had been tabled earlier, arrived in this Chamber later. That is why these scholastic disputes, how to increase ivet and whether the Commission's name is correct. Do you think there is a theoretical possibility that this Commission will work without charge and on the basis of competition in parallel with the other Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U125	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I think this question is very correct. I, and, I think, the whole of our group, too, have nothing against the fact that this committee is working without any extra charge and on the principle of competition. How to legally formulate it in order to comply with the law of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure should be asked by the Riigikogu Board. I do not have an exhaustive answer to that. However, if possible, of course, we would have nothing against this Commission being able to develop without any additional charges and in parallel with the already existing Commission, so that both can develop their own solutions to address this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U126	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! After all, the issue is very right and topical, because it is in the interests of all of us that the Estonian population remains sustainable. I am of course of the opinion that this work, which also specifically concerns this bill, should be carried out by every member of the Riigikogu free of charge. Let me quote Martin Helmet, who spoke on 14 February in 'The Sun', who expressed himself very specifically: 'Both committees were actually created by the new coalition to place people in places. When the coalition was divided, all the ambitions were not satisfied, then more seats were taken as chairman of the committee. It's actually that dirty little secret, but now it's a question of whether the result is anything practical being hatched out of it. ' Perhaps my question is the same as that of the previous questioner: would your committee work free of charge and would the vice-chairman of the new Commission work free of charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U128	Thank you, Honourable Asker. After all, whoever becomes chairman or vice-chairman of the committee depends on the results of the election. I can't tell you who these two people are supposed to be out of our 101s, and it's already up to their personal opinion whether they're willing to work at no extra cost or whether they want to get an extra fee for it in any case. I can't speak for them. The comment made by Mr Helme on 14 February probably reflected why it was necessary to pass on the promise of the current Prime Minister to involve the opposition, bypassing his statement that all the necessary opposition proposals would also be implemented in the work of the government. This may be the reason why almost two months later a similar draft was drawn up and was taken to the proceedings in the Commission and also in this large Chamber earlier than before. There may indeed be a reason to hide. For the rest of it, I can't add to Martin's comment because he knows best what he meant. But I think there's a really big point. As regards the possibility of working free of charge, as I replied to Mrs Tiidu, I would be very pleased if we could look more closely at how the Home and Rules of Procedure Act regulates this and what is written there about the payment of the remuneration to the chairmen and vice-chairmen of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U129	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U130	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, Would you explain in a general philosophy why you do not consider population growth to be a solution through immigration, which would bring more labour and the necessary taxpayers? This has also been considered necessary by economic operators.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U131	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I think that is a very good question, and that is a philosophical question. We have basically two options, two ways to tackle the population problem, a declining labour force, an ageing population and rising social spending. One option is to increase ivet and ensure the regeneration of the population. Another option is to promote immigration. My philosophical approach is that since the Preambler of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia can be very clearly read that Estonia is a nation state, our task in this hall, the task of all Estonian people at all, should be to work to ensure that the Estonian nation and culture are preserved throughout the ages. Looking at the data from Statistics Estonia, we can see that the number of non-Estonians in Estonia is 25%. We compare this with data from other European countries: Sweden has a percentage of 9, Finland is even smaller. Estonia is the second largest country in Europe after Latvia, with the number of people of other origin at the highest level. This weakens Estonia's position as a nation state if we consider the fact that Estonians live in Estonia about 930,000, less than a million. That's my philosophical approach, why I'm not in favour of this other option. As we can see from the immigration data of recent years, new immigrants are generally concentrated in the capital city of Tallinn, where according to Statistics Estonia there are only 55% of Estonians. Almost every other person living in Tallinn is not an Estonian. I think that this is a dangerous trend in view of Estonia's future as a nation state. Here, compromises must be found together with businesses and employers and cooperation must be stepped up. This concerns the entry and emigration of graduates (about 90,000 people working outside of Estonia). In particular, these issues should be resolved before coming up with a response to crises through immigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U132	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Madison! As a rather young person, you may not know this yet, but as a father of two sons, I can give you authority to say that something else is needed to raise the problem, not to set up a Commission and to set up another Commission and then to set up another Commission. I will also take this opportunity to say to Mr Ammas: exactly 21 committees would resolve this whole situation. But now to the question. Suppose we create this second committee today. Do they have different staff or the same? How will they coordinate their work? Do they have any priorities shared, or do we have to create a third committee to discuss which committee's opinion to put forward, which one to reject, etc.? Do you have all these technical things figured out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U134	Thank you, Reverend Asker! I'm going back to the beginning of your question. You have a burning right: something other than the Commission is needed for growth. Fortunately, I can assure you, being the youngest in this hall, that I have how much time to carry out this task. That's definitely what I'm gonna do. Going now to the cooperation of the two committees, I say that neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum could have included how the two committees should work together, because the three opposition groups wanted to come to the side of the new government and take the initiative to set up a problem committee. At that point, we did not really foresee that the new Prime Minister or the new government would eat their words and either try to secure the positions of chairmen and vice-chairmen for its own people at all costs, or simply want to boycott opposition initiatives that have been launched for exactly the same purposes as these initiatives. However, as everything can be improved and moved forward, I believe, as the questioners have already mentioned, that two Commissions could work on the principle of competition. They could develop their own solution scenarios and then, through cooperation and joint sessions, both options, the perspectives developed by both committees should be analysed and a compromise found that would be the most effective that would need to be done at the legislative level. We should also look at what needs to be done by the government in order to increase Estonia's population. As far as staff is concerned, that is, the secretariat that works for the Commission, when it is possible, I do not mind that these people work for and for both committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U135	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U136	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! There are now two authors left in the bill, as I understand it: Conservative People's Party and Reform Party. You've been working on this bill for three long months. I'm sure you had the opportunity to ask your colleagues about the Reform Party, who spent 17 years in the government, how this problem could have gotten so serious, whether they didn't notice that there was a problem or if they didn't have good solutions. You have probably also been in contact with population scientists and social scientists who have offered practical measures to address this problem. Talk about both aspects. Did colleagues tell you how this problem could have occurred, did indifference prevail in their hearts? Were they not given adequate measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U137	Thank you, Honourable Asker. As you know, cooperation in the new opposition has not yet reached such a good level as it reached in those one and a half years when the opposition was a different composition. But if there's anything to praise, I'm not sorry to do it. I believe that good steps were also taken in the reform party government, such as the introduction of a parental benefit system, which gave a great deal of confidence to many young mothers. I think it was a worthwhile step, but I could certainly have done a lot more because there were shortcomings. But this is primarily a question for them. One of the main topics of the new Commission could certainly be the mistakes made by some political parties during their reign and the ideas that others have. However, the fact that the Reform Party Group is one of the initiators of the draft shows the perception of a new reality and the recognition of the fact that the Estonian population is in crisis. I think this is a very grateful step in the right direction, and I believe that this is a good starting point for moving forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U138	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U139	Thank you. Honourable waitress! From your reply to Mr Stalnukhin, I understand that you also believe that the front line of the Estonians' survival lies not in meetings and barricades, but in the bedroom. I sincerely wish you every success on this road. But here's my question. If this committee is still being set up, could it not be exactly the same people and the same chair and vice-chairman? Then the technical and financial problems of paying extra wages, coordination, division of labour would fall away and everything would have been solved. Would you agree to such a solution? This could be a cross-party agreement. As you said, the formation of this committee could take place on a cross-party basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U140	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As far as the start of your question is concerned, the front line always depends on the opponent and the moment of time, on what the barricades or somewhere on the front line are fighting for. When we look at history, we see that it has sometimes been necessary to fight for Estonianism on barricades and front lines, not just in the bedroom. But to be able to fight later in the barricades, you need to fight first in the bedroom. So, unfortunately, this is the way it works. The composition of the new Commission should be made up of members of six political groups. It is up to each political group to decide who should be the main member or alternate on the committee. If six political parties agree that this composition coincides with the already established Commission, this is one of the options. But he who becomes chairman and vice-chairman again depends on elections that I cannot predict and cannot speculate in any way. However, the above option provided for two similar committees to work in a competitive, stand-alone way towards similar objectives, but the solution you proposed would not allow this. It would therefore be easier to manage the cost savings if the members of the committee or the chairman and vice-chairman worked at no extra cost.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U141	Helmut Hallemaa, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U142	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! The topic of maintaining and increasing the vitality of the Estonian population and nation is certainly existential and, in everyone's view, crucial in this Chamber. Having listened to one of the previous questions, I say that, in practical and theoretical terms, no one is probably too old or too young to solve this issue. But I listened to your answers and your presentation, which sounded like a lot of things I agree with, but there were a lot of contradictions. Are they the result of your problem-enhancing, first of all, the title of the decision, which shows that the population and nation are not identical? When you answered here, you handled these things quite differently. The second question is the creation of this Commission. You never mentioned, when you presented this draft, that this was due to the fact that the problem arose later, because of the Prime Minister's replies to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U143	Thank you, Reverend Asker! As regards the Commission's name and the title of the draft decision, the problems associated with the decline in population include the whole population crisis. The interest of all of us is also that the people currently living in other languages would remain in Estonia, be well integrated, have as many children as possible who would work for the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order, speak Estonian well, remain in our labour market and link their lives to our homeland. It is therefore obvious why the word 'population' appears in the title of this decision. The purpose of the problem committee is precisely to address the decline in population, it is necessary to find a solution to how to increase ive in all families living in Estonia, but not to deal with the promotion of immigration, which some of the questioners have pointed out. The end of your question concerned the statement by the Prime Minister and the result, if I have heard correctly. I think that if coalition parties have decided not to ignore their government leaders' promises and statements, our noble aim is to pay even more attention to this problem. I think that all political parties should be very happy and they should be pleased that this issue has risen to an unprecedented acute focus, which I think has not happened before in the last two years, during its membership.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U144	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U145	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is science fiction. The problem is the decline of the population, the small increase, the lack of children, the real fear of immigration. Is there research money in the committee that you are creating, so that we can have exactly as many children as we need, fertilize in a test tube, and when these children are born, they will get the right education, the right color eyes, the right color hair, the right length and the right nation, exactly what we are giving them? Have you thought about this science project? Have you ever studied the known-hows in the world how to get such biogenetic offspring, perfect people ready? Five test tube tubes could be assigned to each family.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U146	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I respond well to science fiction that perfect people don't exist in the world. You're not perfect. I'm not perfect either. I don't think anyone's perfect here. So, the desire to have perfect children is really science fiction that my mind doesn't really start on. But I'd be happy if anyone did, I'd talk to her more about it. Secondly, I'm not a genetic engineer. If there are any questions about this possibility, you can contact genetic technologists to find out if your option is feasible. Personally, however, I am in favour of the traditional way that has worked for thousands of years to preserve humanity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U147	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U148	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the performer for such a sincere confession, I might even say, for his promise when he said that he would personally fill the land with children. While waiting for the same sincerity, I will not ask you how many children you intend to have, but I will ask you how you feel about abortion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U149	Thank you, good questioner! If I can fill the country with children, I doubt it. However, I can make a greater contribution than so many in this Chamber. But now on abortion. That is a very complicated question and there is no one answer to that. There is no solution that is the right one. I, too, am not the right person to give a final answer from the truth as to how it should be. However, I do not think that a light-handed choice of this kind is ever justified. It must be a prudent decision, and it must be based primarily on substantive arguments as to the impact that it may have on health in the future, or also psychologically. Since 1956, if I remember correctly, when abortion was legalized in the Soviet Union, it is estimated that 1.5 million children have no accurate data on it, I would stress that this is an estimated number of unborn children. I think it is a very large number in view of the Estonian population, and I think it is a tragedy. Whether it is right to ban it or to leave it as it is is a question of discussion. I think it needs a broader social consensus. As the Conservatives have always stressed, socially polarising issues, over which there has already been quite a discussion in recent years, should be put to the public poll. That, too, is a very fundamental question. I don't think there's a single person here who can make a decision on how to behave. However, abortion is only justified in a number of European countries, such as Finland, if it threatens the health or life of the mother. I think that this is one way to consider and which could be one of Estonia's choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U150	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'd rather ask for a verbatim. I'm pretty sure you know that, but I'll ask you, just in case, as a reminder. In the Riigikogu, there is a support group for the Estonian population, which includes very many of the officials in this Chamber today, as well as members of your party. It was led with great dignity by Rein Ratas. Rein Ratas is currently not working as a member of the Riigikogu because of his state of health and the position of the leader of this support group is free. Actually, we could reconvene this group. Its consultant is Jaak Uibu, from whom the term population crisis comes from. As minister, I met him, and I know that he is always ready to advise this support group. Perhaps one solution would be to bring this support group together and the person of your party will take the lead?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U152	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I think this is a very legitimate observation and this is one option that could be considered and should be considered. I believe that there are certainly people in our group who would be willing to take this responsibility. I also congratulate Mr Uibu, who has been speaking and working on this for years. He published last year a very constructive and substantive book on population problems. Surely this is a very useful reading for all of us in this Chamber. You can buy it from Jaak Uibu and borrow it. I can personally borrow this book if anyone really wants it. So the knowledge and experience of Jaak Uibu must be used in any case and must certainly be used by the committee that has already been set up. This person's life's work would then also provide a meaningful output in solving these problems. The position of leader of this support group certainly needs to be fulfilled. This draft deals with similar problems; however, the support group is known to focus public attention on important issues, raise topics, make proposals, but it has not been formulated to include so many people from all political groups with a different view of the world. It's voluntary. Whoever wants to belong, belongs, doesn't belong, doesn't belong. Our draft clearly states that this committee is cross-party, so there is a representation of all six political groups. Maybe these directions are a little different. But I am sure your theme setting was very relevant and I think that this needs to be taken forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U153	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U154	Thank you. Of course, the behaviour of the left-wing government led by the Centre Party is in a situation where new policies were promised and the opposition and their proposals were taken into account in the change of government, but at the same time the opposition's proposal to form a similar committee is extremely deplorable and regrettable. I ask, however, for your moral assessment of the conduct of the Free Party, which, after all, came into politics in exactly the same way by promising a new, honest policy, but by withdrawing its signatures from this bill, actually approved such a cynical and dishonest policy. What is your moral assessment of their conduct?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U155	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Indeed, with one opposition group, with whom we should have similar positions and concerns regarding Estonia's political culture and democracy, cooperation is not as good as it should be. As far as the withdrawal of signatures is concerned, I will have a parallel with the Central Party Group, which will be remembered to have taken the day before the draft was due to arrive at the table of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the signatures back from the draft that provided for the President's direct election. This was a proposal to amend the Constitution, which required the signatures of at least 21 members of the Riigikogu. The Centre Party retreated from its point of view, and we were alone with our seven signatures. The draft fell out of the procedure and did not even reach the Commission's table. This is a similitaric behaviour, which I absolutely do not like, because I do not think it facilitates cooperation between political parties; it certainly does not reflect the desire to move democracy forward in Estonia and to develop political culture. But it was the decision of their group. All MEPs are known to be independent. What motivated them to do so is their own knowledge. But the answer to the question of whether I like it is that I don't like it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U156	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Madison, I apologize in advance, because maybe my question will turn you on! I belong to the people of this nation, who disturb you so much, there are 45% of those in Tallinn who are not Estonians, aren't they? I try to improve my Estonian language skills all the time, and that is why I will ask if I do not understand a few things. When you answered my first question, you said you were young enough, you still have plenty of time to fulfill your commitment to society. I didn't understand whether the pile you were talking about is the object with which you intend to fulfil this obligation, or whether it talks about the result you want to achieve. I'm sorry, but how would you interpret your answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U158	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Going to the beginning of your question, I can say that you personally don't bother me. Your knowledge of Estonian is also very good. It makes me so happy, and it moves my heart. All the people living in this country who work together to promote our country and protect it accept certain standards, one of which is definitely the knowledge of the national language. You deserve a lot of respect in this regard. When we talk more broadly about the national composition of Tallinn, I think you will also understand my position, whose interest lies primarily in the preservation of the Estonian nation, nation, language and culture. I am genuinely concerned when half of Tallinn's population is of other origin. If such people are added every year and our lives are negative, or the national composition is going in an increasingly negative direction over the years, I believe you understand my concern about this. As for the pile, I can't predict the future, the kind of pile that's supposed to be. But I think one doesn't rule out the other. So how is this pile to be filled, whether this product is in a pile or the way of execution, how this pile is to be filled, is a separate pile? [[Laughing.]] But by continuing traditionally, I prefer that this fulfillment take place not in a pile, or rather in a single person, which is, I think, better for everyone, it is as an example as it is for the offspring as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U159	Thank you. The question pile has been answered. I now invite Mr Ernitsa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give a presentation to the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U160	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I have to be on the remote right now. I'd rather not be here. The Commission has been set up, but we are eagerly discussing its creation again, and it does not look well. On the 23rd day of November, the same day as the change of government, this bill was submitted. Indeed, the new coalition submitted its draft later, on 12 January. To date, the Commission has been set up. The fact that the subject is extremely topical, I think, should not talk at all, because there has already been so much talk about it. But, formally, it is true that we are now discussing the creation of the same committee again, and we are doing so formally because this draft was tabled earlier than the proposal for the creation of a committee that was already born. It's not a good political culture. I will give an overview of what we discussed in the Commission on 14 February. Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt and I were present. Jaak Madison, who presented the draft, explained that the draft decision of the Conservative People's Party, the Free Party and the Reform Party's Group 'Constitution of the State Assembly's Problem Committee to examine the problems of population decline' is very similar to the Riigikogu's decision of 14 February adopted in the Riigikogu's plenary session to resolve the population crisis. Mr Madison said that we are entering the exact same stream. The aim of the draft 343 is to set up a problem committee to investigate in depth the causes of the demographic crisis and population decline in Estonia. Madison stated that draft 343 was awarded to the proceedings of the Riigikogu before the same-sensory draft submitted by coalition parties 367. Draft 343 sets out the objectives of the problem committee and the methods used to achieve them. That's what I said in the beginning. Indeed, it is the same thing, but the performers and dates are different. Ken-Marti Vaher asked whether the author had a proposal to set up another similar committee of problems, which had already been set up, to deal with the problems of demographic decline. Jaak Madison replied that this is indeed the case, meaning that there would be two identical committees. The theme statement may be similar to those of the two problem committees, said Madison, but the solutions and ways in which this problem is addressed may be different. Therefore, these problem committees could complement each other. So this is an important or crucial issue when the Conservative People's Party, the Reform Party and the Free Party think that there could be two committees dealing with it. Mr Madison said that the EKRE Group is very pleased that a committee of problems has already been set up to solve the problem, despite the fact that the draft for its formation was issued to the Riigikogu proceedings later after the opposition parties had submitted their draft to the procedure. Helmut Hallemaa asked whether the objective set out in the draft could not be resolved by the Committee on Problems set up under Bill 367. When the draft 367 was discussed in the Riigikogu, the representatives of several political groups stated that the creation of problem committees would cost a great deal of money. If you remember, it was EUR 110000. If there are two problem committees to solve one problem, is the money no longer crucial? Jaak Madison replied that if a total of 24 members of the Riigikogu dealt with this problem on two issues, it is much easier to find solutions than the 12 members of the Riigikogu dealing with this topic. On the financial side, this is an investment, Mr Madison stressed, because no euro has been spent too much, provided that it ensures the survival of the Estonian nation. Of course, there may be problem committees in the Riigikogu, said Mr Madison, who has not carried out the tasks assigned to them in the most effective way, but the problem committee set up to work on population problems is certainly the right objective and must be supported. Mr Hallemaa found that since there is one person from each political group who represents a political group, the entire Riigikogu is represented there. Madison noted that a member of the Riigikogu is not bound by a mandate and is primarily responsible for his conscience and constitution. Mr Arto Aas pointed out that this draft had been submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu earlier than the similar draft of coalition parties, and if the coalition really had the desire to demonstrate a new political culture and openness, the coalition could have supported the draft of opposition parties. Jüri Adams found that democracy works to a large extent in an attempt by the coalition to take away reasonable ideas from the opposition and to put it to work for its benefit. In this case, the coalition has taken away the idea of creating a committee of problems from opposition parties. This behaviour is ugly, but not unusual, said my colleague Adams. It would have been better for the coalition not to have acted in this way, but to have supported the earlier draft, which contains the same political idea. Helmut Hallemaa noted that the coalition had already agreed to set up a coalition, both in terms of state reform and in terms of setting up a problem committee for the population crisis. Jaak Madison said that it has now been confirmed that certain political parties are talking about changing political culture and greater involvement of opposition parties after the formation of a new government, but in reality the development of political culture is still not visible. Mr Luik, speaking more generally about the problem committees, said that he felt that separate committees should not necessarily be set up to deal with the various problems, but rather that emphasis should be placed on greater motivation and reinforcement of the staff of permanent committees. Ken-Marti Vaher stated that he would agree with this colleague Lauri Luige and that this issue should be addressed to the Board of the Riigikogu in order to find out how to better direct the work of the Riigikogu so that those employees who offer support to members of the Riigikogu would be better motivated and not overburdened. As there was a debate in the committee on who was able to come up with this draft earlier, I say that I myself am a member of the Estonian population support group and I know that this group was led by a good colleague, Rein Rata, much earlier than these drafts were created. This problem has been in the air a long time ago. The new government came up with this bill, but in fact this family has been very important to Ratas much, much earlier. That's what I said to explain. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 21 February (this is the next date), by consensus, and to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 6 members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 2 against and 3 abstentions (by Ken-Marti Vaher, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott, Ivari Padar, Peeter Ernits and Helmut Hallemaa, against Jaak Madison and Kalle Laane and abstentions were Jüri Adams, Arto Aas and Lauri Luik). It was decided to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, i.e. I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U161	Dear rapporteur, thank you very much for a thorough review of what took place in the Commission. As there are no questions, I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft decision. The Yoko Alender Reform Party will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We have spent quite a bit of time here on this subject. It's all a little crazy. Personally, I think that each and every one of us, all of us 101, according to the Constitution, we are forced to stand up for the preservation and development of the Estonian nation and culture. We have sworn to do this. The creation of a Committee on Problems is one way to do it more precisely, more ambitiously. Personally, I think that the state cannot force anyone to increase their secondary growth, but it can create a favourable environment for this. We have heard many very personal comments here today. Whether it's right or wrong, it's up to everyone. Surely it is to be welcomed that there are such thoughts. I am also a member of the committee that has already been set up, and I hope that we will be able to set goals that will actually change something and help to make the environment more family friendly in Estonia. To conclude, of course, I must say that the Reform Party cannot vote in favour of this draft, because it is certainly not worth creating another committee. It is regrettable that, while the Prime Minister said before all of us that the principle of 'a wrong man cannot do the right thing' must not apply, he has not been able to get his coalition mates to follow this principle. The procedure for a similar draft drawn up by the opposition was prevented and used by the coalition's draft. Personally, I think it is right that we deal with all population issues every day, even without any extra charges or committees. The Reform Party will not vote this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U163	Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U164	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is now a subject where it is not possible to joke, because we are talking about serious things. A few years ago, I was very close to the Statistical Office database, and I remember a few figures very well from that time. I would remind you that in the late 1980s, when Estonia was still part of the Soviet Union, in 1989 and 1990, when memory did not deceive me, the birth rate increased for the first time by more than 25000 children a year. Before that, it continued to grow, grow, grow, and grow, but since 1992 it began to fall drastically. As early as 1993, 1994 and 1995, it was almost twice as small as the peak year, and figures such as 13000 and 14000 were already figured out. If you look at it from the point of view of demographics, it is more or less clear that you can find certain vibrations in the air exactly 25 years before it reached its peak. The thing is that today, given that the Estonian woman is on average 26 years old at the time of the first birth (I regrettably do not remember the age of the second birth, it was 32 years old), we will reach the top with this figure. It is now coming, I would say, to the arena or to the market of the generation that has the most, those who were born in the late 1980s. So if the draft states that the committee of problems will report on its activities to the Riigikogu after the end of its activities, I am sure that in two years' time or at the end of 2018, they will be able to report very optimisticly on the results, because any-willing age will increase in the coming years and it will grow for another eight-niner years. I keep watching the situation in my neighborhood, in my town with first-class students. Already today, it can be seen in a small way that the number of students entering first grade is increasing. However, there is a need to deal with this, and the Committee on Trouble may be looking for these solutions, but I cannot imagine how the two committees will do this. In principle, the creation of committees is quite freely regulated in our Home and Working Procedures Act. I do not exclude that we could, if we so wished, also set up another Committee on Monetary Affairs or a Committee on National Defence. There'll be problems. I'm seeing a head kick, but who's gonna stop us from doing that? The question, however, is why? What are they going to do in parallel? What purpose might they have in this case? The Group of the Estonian Centre Party cannot support the draft because an analogous committee of problems with almost the same name already exists in the Riigikogu. It has, of course, been a constant problem of taking a glimpse of the opposition's mind and presenting it as its own. It's happened, I'm saying, always. I've seen it many times. But given the composition of this committee, there is nothing tragic going on right now. We cannot support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U165	The Estonian Free Party Group is represented in the negotiations by Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U166	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group values the working time of the Riigikogu as important. We consider it necessary to carry out meaningful and targeted activities with a purpose. While a problem committee has already been set up to deal with one issue, it is neither wise nor reasonable to have a long debate on the creation of an analogous problem committee here. Therefore, the Free Party withdrew its signatures from the draft that had already been submitted. I will bring here one parallel to another. The current coalition has also taken the decision, to the delight of the Free Party, to cancel the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments. Our group had exactly the same draft submitted to the Riigikogu proceedings, which we took back for granted, because it would have been both a waste of time and the pointless pimping of the initiators of the draft in our opinion to process it again in this Chamber. It was enough for us to know that the problem had been solved. In these circumstances, the Free Party Group is currently not supporting this draft and is not voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U167	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 343 at first reading. We shall vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject draft 343 at first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to set up a 'Problem Committee of the Riigikogu to examine problems related to population decline'. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 35), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 6 votes to 6 with 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported and draft 343 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U168	The third item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on the acquisition, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act 278. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. I am voting on the draft law amending the law on the procurement, handling and transplantation of cells, tissues and organs initiated by the Government of the Republic and the State Fees Act 278, as the lead committee wants a final vote. Please take a stand and vote. 48 MPs voted in favour. The draft law amending the Act on the Acquisition, Handling and Transfer of Cells, Tissues and Organs and the State Fees Act has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U169	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft Act 375 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Punished Persons, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaidi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U170	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia on 23 January and the first reading took place on 14 February. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 February. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading of the draft at its meeting on 16 February, attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In cooperation with the ministries, the Committee on Legal Affairs initiated an amendment to the draft. This amendment adds § 2 to the text of the draft, which states that the Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Punished Persons to the Court of Justice of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. That is the content of the proposal. On 16 February, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to send the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 22 February, to propose that the draft be put to the final vote and to support the adoption of the draft as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U171	Any questions for the waitress? Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Is this bill limited to shipguards, or is it a general agreement with India for such cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U173	Of course, in this form the agreement is more general, but it is still also referring to the citizens of our Republic, who have been detained in the Republic of India for more than three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U174	No further questions. Thank you very much, dear waitress. I will open negotiations if I wish to speak. That's not what you want. We will go to the examination of the amendments. One amendment to the draft has been tabled by the commission, the position of the commission was and is to be taken fully into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote of 375. I am voting on the draft Act 375 on the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Punished Persons, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India. Please take a stand and vote. 58 MPs voted in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement on the Transfer of Punished Persons by the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of India has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U175	The fifth item is the report on the implementation of the 2016 plan on 'Cultural policy fundamentals until 2020'. Allow me to briefly present the procedure for this procedure before going to the item on the agenda. First of all, the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saare, will present a presentation for up to 30 minutes. It is then possible to ask him questions; each member of the Riigikogu may ask one question. Since then, there are negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture of the Chair, please present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Cultural enthusiasts! The cultural policy document 'Cultural policy fundamentals until 2020' states: 'The aim of cultural policy is to shape a society of value for creativity by preserving and promoting the national identity of Estonia by studying, storing and transferring cultural memory and creating favourable conditions for the development and participation in a vibrant, open and diverse cultural space. The emphasis on 'open', 'diversified' and 'development' are not random. It is not by chance that I will start today's report with the same words as I did a year ago. Fear and the resulting desire to build walls between people and countries, to classify groups of people as inappropriate by their ethnic origin, ethnicity or religious preferences, have not disappeared; rather, it has come up in the wide world as well as in Estonia, in the media and in everyday communication between people. Maybe we don't feel it so hot and everyday anymore because we've adapted to it. It doesn't surprise us anymore, and it's become a new normality. How else could it be that the city council of a brave, innovative, open and lovely county decided unexpectedly to change the decision of its own cultural committee a week ago and not to support a cultural festival simply because it was linked to a minority? How else would the faction in this Chamber be able to blame the Ministry of Culture for creating a department of cultural diversity and thus multicultural Estonia in the autumn press release? Firstly, Estonia is and has always been a multicultural society. More than 190 nationalities live here, and the value of these national minorities is laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Secondly, the Deputy Chancellor for Cultural Diversity has been in office in the Ministry of Culture since 2007. Thirdly, the management of integration policy is one of the tasks assigned to the Ministry by law and the principles of its activities have been agreed in the "Culture 2020" and "Integrating Estonia 2020" development plans. Narrow-mindedness and closure and stupidity and indifference pose a threat to every culture, but they are life-threatening to small cultures. Estonian culture is viable and can only develop if all residents, regardless of their sex, colour, mother tongue, sexual orientation, religious beliefs and socio-economic situation, have the opportunity to create and participate in culture, and there is an active and open dialogue between cultures in society. I understand that understanding this may be an effort that requires overcoming fear, coming out of rooted thought patterns, stereotypes, and routine. Not everyone can or doesn't always want to. Yes, they too have the right to their opinions, and the multiplicity of opinions is of value. But I like what the journalist Rain wrote to school on Monday. I quote: 'No one asks you to be politically correct. [---] But just be correct. Basically polite. Show me you have manners. " Culture is customs and customs. Cultural journalism and culture play an important role in the era of Blur spinning, a world of so-called post-truth and alternative facts. Arts and literature help to create and maintain a cultural person who understands and is critically able to evaluate rhetoric, create links and compare facts. The media can reflect and criticise what is happening in society as an ethical compass for society. It is an opportunity for private media, but it is an obligation for national broadcasting and the publications of the Cultural Site of the Foundation. Dear Riigikogu! The prerequisite for a fruitful dialogue is mutual respect and a desire to understand each other. Director Merle Karusoo put it this way at Paide's opinion festival last year: "I would be sorry for God if the pursuit of truth and justice would be the most characteristic of Estonians. It is better to compare and compare conflicting opinions rather than argue and disprove them. " Understanding each other and, more generally, social cohesion are, of course, facilitated by living in the same information room, sharing similar values, and sharing the same languages. It is in the interests of the state that all people who live here permanently, who regard Estonia as their country of origin and wish to be part of Estonian society, would be Estonian citizens. Life has shown that it can philosophize 0 or 2.0 or some other resounding option, but in real life it brings a lot of screaming and little wool. It is much more practical to deal with ideas that break the ages of time, with the potential for wider support in society. Therefore, the decision of the 2015 Riigikogu to abolish the re-production of years of citizenshiplessness was only right, ensuring Estonian citizenship automatically for children born to the family of parents with a grey passport. The amendment to the Citizenship Act, which came into force a year ago, has retroactive effect, which means that it applies to all children under 15 years of age born in such families. As a result of the change, there are nearly 1000 young citizens in Estonia. The fundamental amendments to the Citizenship Act adopted also protect the minor against the removal of forced citizenship and alleviate the requirements of the language examination for persons over 65 years of age when exercising the citizenship status. Good Riigikogu! Improving language learning conditions is an important objective of the Ministry of Culture. We are convinced that every person who learns the Estonian language will expand our cultural space and contribute to the preservation of the Estonian language. Thus, through the Integration and Migration Foundation, our People have created additional opportunities for language learning and we now offer courses at an initial level. The interest in language courses is high. As you well know, instead of the initially planned 500, 6,000 people enrolled in the last round of applications. We didn't leave the applicants at the door, we found the money to increase the volume. By the end of this year, all registered interested parties will complete the above course. But language learning without practice can be as successful as swimming instruction in a pool with no water. This is why we have created even more opportunities to communicate with native speakers of Estonian. The new government agreed to create an Estonian language house in Narva and Tallinn to provide the environment and activities necessary for the acquisition of the language. The Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research and other actors, has developed the concept of language houses and we will discuss it in the government office in the near future. Language cafés and language and culture club have already been successfully launched. In addition, one small job that makes my mind particularly happy: this is the new student exchange program that we have just begun. For four weeks, students can go to a second language school and live in a second-language family, as well as receive a 200-euro scholarship to cover expenses. Language skills and understanding of different cultural spaces are a competitive advantage for both the individual and the state, not to mention supporting a coherent and tolerant society. All of this can be done by people without leaving home, i.e. on the surface of our own small and lovely Estonian country. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope you have reached the 2016 report. Its structure consists of two parts and is similar to the structure of the "Culture 2020" vision document. The first part focuses on the general principles for the formulation and implementation of cultural policy and then introduces developments in all these areas of Culture 2020. I assure you that all the principles of cultural policy are important to the government, but it is not possible to report a 53-page report within the prescribed time and open up all the topics. However, I can give an overview of specific areas by answering your questions after the presentation. We are used to using soft words like beautiful arts, valuable cultural heritage and talented creative people when we talk about culture. This time I'm talking about money, iron and reform. Let's start with the money. Culture is not without people. That is why we have considered it important to invest money primarily in people whose daily work is linked to the creation of culture or the provision of experiences. For the second year in a row, we have found the means to raise the minimum wage for cultural workers with higher education. Within two years, the minimum wage has risen by 29%, i.e. EUR 211: from EUR 731 to EUR 942 per month. By increasing the minimum wage rate with the same intensity, we will be able to achieve what was agreed in the fundamentals of cultural policy and ensure that by 2020, the minimum wage of a cultural worker in the state will indeed be a dignified average wage level in Estonia. The necessary money for this will be agreed in the Government Union for the coming year. In addition, in 2017, the Ministry of Culture allowed the 2% salary fund to grow for those highly educated cultural workers whose incomes exceed the minimum wage level. We also returned 1% of wage fund growth to employees providing support services. How exactly the salary is distributed among the employees is left to the heads of institutions. Last year, we introduced a writer's and artist's salary, which gives freelance top professionals pay and social guarantees, thereby guaranteeing the creator confidence and creative peace. Despite some initial criticism and world-view motivated political opposition, we can today firmly state that this was a necessary initiative that has justified itself in every way. That is why we found money to secure wages for six other Estonian creative people, and the creative federations added two for their part. Thus, the number of authors' and artists' earners increased from 10 to 18. It is also important to amend the Health Insurance Act, which came into force at the beginning of last year, which introduced the possibility of obtaining insurance cover on the basis of monthly aggregation. As a result, health insurance will also be provided if the person receives a salary from several parties and the total amount exceeds the minimum social security contribution. In addition, we extended the term of suspension of insurance cover. These changes have returned to many creators of health insurance. But we have to move on from here. In cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs, we are analysing new ways of ensuring even stronger social guarantees for artists. More money. In addition to the state budget, culture is financed through the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, which is governed by public law. Culture 2020 aims at supporting, in particular, creative people and project-based initiatives. The Ministry of Culture's budget finances the main activities of state budget institutions and the long-term activities which are of national cultural importance. With this in mind, last year we were conducting a reorganisation of the funding of the art field and this year we are analysing how this could be done in other areas as well. Clear principles and transparent funding for cultural support are essential. This reduces both unnecessary expenditure on red tape and increases the purpose and efficiency of the use of money. Yet, it does not in itself bring more money. Regardless of what we had to fill out the Excel table and how much we dream of becoming the most prosperous country, the economic growth of recent years and the situation in the world, including the European Union, should confirm one thing: there is no leap in money to be expected. It is good for us to be able to get out of the demographic hole before the inevitable increase in social expenditure in the cultural agenda requires a contribution. In order for culture to receive additional money for development, new ideas must be sought and private capital mobilised. A good example can be found in Outset Estonia, which is a well-established forest service platform born as a private initiative, which gathers support from private donors for contemporary art projects. We also have the FilmFly programme to promote strategic cooperation between film producers and private investors. The most successful new initiative of 2016 was Swedbank AS, Estonian National Culture Foundation and Estonian Pillifond founded by Maestro Paavo Järvi, on the initiative of the Ministry of Culture. Initially, the goal was to acquire two to four instruments per year, but with the support of private investors, six talented Estonian musicians have already used a valuable string instrument. Marje Lohuaru, the director of the Pilli Fund, confirmed at the cultural friends' gratitude event last week that the seventh and eighth instruments would soon arrive. The pool fund has essentially multiplied public money by ten in one year: from EUR 100000 to EUR 1 million. Let it be said that the instrument fund is, among other things, a perfect Estonian design and an example of the benefits of international experience. By studying what has been done in other countries and taking into account the circumstances and opportunities of Estonia, we managed to create a unique model in the world that combines high culture, cultural heritage, forestry and investors. Thus, walls between culture and entrepreneurship, business and national identity, entrepreneurs and artists are often built by us. It must be said that in reality these walls turn out to be much thinner than we thought. The willingness of the cultural and creative sectors to understand the language of the business sector and the willingness of other economic sectors to see cultural creation as a source of innovation in the development of their business models, products and services is reflected in almost all initiatives supported to promote creative industries. Honourable Riigikogu! Upon hearing the word 'culture', the Estonian grabs the bells. This idea belongs to my predecessor, Rein Lang. Looking back on the past year, those words also sound prophetic. There is nothing to do, in our climate it is still quite difficult, mostly impossible, to make art in the open sky or in an unheated house or to preserve cultural values. 107 years of dreaming and waiting, and we finally got to open the Estonian National Museum on 29 September, but for which museum! The Estonian National Museum is the largest and most modern museum in Europe, the appearance and content of which have been recognized with several awards. The museum has reached the hearts of the Estonians, raising our national self-consciousness, reviving the tourism economy in the region and giving rise to great international interest. That is why we have decided to organise a number of high-level events in connection with the Presidency of the European Union there too. It is clear that culture needs to create the necessary conditions for its survival. Just as we need to preserve and value people, we need to create an environment and opportunities that can help to better preserve, develop and introduce our culture to the world by means of today's top technology solutions. Rauda was beaten and concrete cast elsewhere: the new main building of the Estonian National Archives, the modern newshouse of Estonian National Broadcasting, the cinema and rehearsal hall of Rakvere Theatre and the new hall of NUKU Theatre were completed. The work started in the Maarjamäe complex of the Estonian History Museum and in the renovation of the Ugala theatre building. The stage equipment of the Vanemuine was thoroughly upgraded. In 2016, decisions were made to support the construction of the new study building of the Estonian Academy of Arts, the hall complex of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre, the Arvo Pärt Centre and the free stage of Narva. Tallinn City Hall and the Song Grounds are waiting for their sequel. I would like to highlight the decision to fix Kalevi Stadium in cooperation with the city of Tallinn. The rare but more meaningful consensus between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Culture on this matter shows the symbolic significance of this stadium for the entire Estonian people. Dance parties have been held there for over half a century. The construction works will begin after the summer youth dance 'I'll stay' and at the 2019 anniversary party dancers and audiences will bless the long-awaited brand-new square. The dream of Ullo Toom, who has been told by his contemporaries and heritage keepers for decades, will come true. During the interdance period, the stadium is, of course, open for sports. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! It is in symbol of the cultural year of children and young people that the reform of the activities of interest is coming to an end. The support system developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research last year will be operational on 1 September and will amount to EUR 15 million per year. As a result of the reform, the participation of children and young people aged 7 to 19 in regular recreational activities will increase the availability and quality of the service and a more diverse choice will be ensured in all areas of Estonia. Every child, regardless of where he or she lives and the size of his or her parents' wallets, must have the opportunity to go to the circle of interest. Unfortunately, according to youth monitoring, in the last three years 10% of young people have not taken part in any activity or exercise. This means that nearly 30,000 children have, for some reason, been completely excluded from their activities of interest. Given the small size of the Estonian people, we must not allow thousands of children to be excluded from the opportunity to find an attractive area of interest for themselves and to develop their talents. We must do everything we can to change this situation. The possibility of supported recreational activities will be offered in three areas: culture, sport and natural and precision sciences and technology. This, too, is a kind of guarantee that in decades' time, our theatre and concert halls, as well as the practicers, will still be full of people. Raising an active cultural audience through guided activities is part of the fact that we are open, confident, creative and competitive as a country and as a nation, critical if necessary, and we can stand up for what is important and expensive for us. And what could it be other than a national culture and its unbrokenness? The preservation of cultural goods is a constitutional task for the country. Cultural heritage is an important part of Estonian history and a source of identity for both the individual and the state as a whole. Unfortunately, a significant part of our national wealth is being destroyed, as nearly 25% of the Estonian building monuments are in a bad or emergency situation. Owners feel that they are alone with their concerns. The country doesn't care. While in 2002 the State contribution to the owners of building monuments was EUR 1.1 million per year, after the cuts due to the economic crisis, the budget of the National Heritage Board for 2016 had remained at EUR 675000. It's not just about the money. The expert advice of heritage conservationists is equally welcome. At times, cultural heritage is a unique and unique resource that contributes to the promotion of the economy or mitigates regional inequalities. Those aren't just sounding words. For example, the development of Haapsalu Bishop Castle with EU money has an impact on the creation of 130 indirect jobs in the region. More than a quarter of passengers in the European Union note that cultural heritage is a key factor in the choice of destination. If we are poor with the sun, and as a ski fan I have to admit that there is not much snow in recent years, then perhaps we are offering to domestic and foreign tourists what we have in terms of rich and diverse cultural heritage, be it Koguva village or Narva fortress. It is time to move from controlling heritage protection to inclusive heritage protection. This means further restructuring of the National Heritage Board and the adoption of the new Heritage Protection Act. Heritage is our common resource, not the private concern of the site owner. The planned reform of heritage protection, or heritage conservation, is a priority for the Ministry of Culture in the forthcoming budget negotiations, because investment is also needed to enhance the resource. It will take EUR 2 million a year. Two thirds of this money goes to support owners to compensate for the work that ensures prudent decisions. After all, research makes building under heritage protection more expensive than conventional construction. The rest of the money goes to the development of a high-quality public service. The latter means more than ever providing advice and prevention and raising society's awareness. The focus of the next European Year will be on cultural heritage. The European Year of Cultural Heritage will be announced during our Presidency. Which would be even more symbolic if it were to launch a heritage reform. After all, this would be a very appropriate gift to the 100-year-old Estonian state, which, among other things, played a major role in the heritage conservation movement. Apart from decaying cultural heritage, unthinking plans and buildings damage the quality of life. Whether these over-dimensioned intersections and crossings, which have not taken into account the surrounding environment, boxes raised by low-cost procurement in the city centre, non-existent or anti-human public space or policies conducive to urban sprawl. It is the task of the state to think even more about how to create a high-quality living environment where people have a good place to live and what is sustainable in all respects. Citizens are increasingly demanding this from us too. The discussions around Reid Road and Patarei Sea Fortress are an outstanding example of this. We should not build buildings that can reasonably be nicknamed Excel's table or just an ugly house. If we want to, we do, and we dare to involve foreign experts. The Estonian National Museum was designed by a multi-ethnic team of architects and architects of Lebanon's origin Lina Ghotmeh, Japanese Tsuyoshi Tane and Frenchman Dan Dorell were awarded last year at the Venice Architecture Biennale with the Grand Prize for Export of French Architecture. I am very pleased that the "Good Public Space" programme provides for the organisation of the central squares, main streets or their surroundings of 16 Estonian cities on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the country. However, there is no comprehensive view of the design of the living environment at national level. A number of authorities are responsible for national spatial development and planning of the living environment and cooperation between them is not working adequately. Therefore, the new coalition agreement provided for the establishment of a supraministerial panel of experts to bring together the competence of national spatial policy under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with the Association of Estonian Architects and other professional organisations. In the near future, we will discuss the proposal for the establishment of an expert group in the Ministry of Culture at the Government Office. More about the reforms. As an important initiative, in 2016 the Ministry of Culture proposed cooperation to the Association of Estonian Arts for the joint management of the Foundation's Tallinn Art Hall. The draft for the creation of a joint foundation has reached the coordination circle and Tallinn Art Hall will become the first state-owned exhibition institution according to this plan. For years, the Estonian film industry has needed help to facilitate the flow of foreign capital into Estonia and cooperation between Estonian and foreign film producers in the production of audiovisual works in Estonia. The financial incentive system for the production of films in Estonia, established with the help of foreign capital, which was launched in 2016, has fully justified itself and the Ministry of Culture has contributed to channeling the flow of foreign capital into the Estonian film industry and, if possible, to increasing its volume. Thus, the State had reason to increase the volume of Film Estonia twice, i.e. to EUR 1 million. All this money will come directly back to the state budget, not to mention the indirect tax receipts and the additional turnover that will be generated. Honourable listeners! Last weekend, a cultural house was reopened. Elva's cultural centre was reopened. I was happy to be there, and I must admit that my soul, as Minister of Culture, was singing. The house, which was once built as a cinema building, and which many declared hopeless and would gladly have let the road cover through the crusher, has been fully repaired in modern and dignified ways, maintaining what was positive and giving the building a completely new functionality. This house is thought through in every detail. 1.3 million is a significant amount in terms of the Elva-sized city budget, but spending it was very reasonable in the big picture. Thus, a local community identity centre, a local cultural centre, was built. If you can, go through there and see how the local community can do something that's been thought out. There are many such local authorities, with good women at the top, who ultimately decide to do something that has been said for 30 years and which has been drawn five different projects, one prouder than the other. If they want it, they get it. The role of local authorities in organising cultural life is often far more important than the role of the state. It is believed that we all have a series of experiences with community houses, cultural houses and village centres, where there are tragedies and industrious people with our senses, where choral songs, dances, theatres and crafts are made, bands are made, robotic circles are made, and people are able to spend time together or talk. An important part of our culture is created in these communities and with the support of local authorities. It would therefore be very right if, in the course of the ongoing administrative reform, we also wrote in the law that cultural organisation is not only a task for the state, but also for the municipalities. I hope that you will support this proposal of the Ministry of Culture in the near future. In cooperation with local governments, we must, of course, ensure that the network of theatres, cinemas, concert halls and exhibition halls covers Estonia in a way that does not leave anyone too far away from having a cultural experience. This is primarily the task of the state, but I would like to emphasise once again: in cooperation with the municipalities. At the same time, our culture must and has come far. The world is waiting and listening to Arvo Pärt. Maarja Nuudi, Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir, ERSO and Trad. Attack tours lead them to full halls and even stadiums on all continents. In 2016, Les Boréales, France, was a focus country with Finland, dedicated to Estonia's largest Nordic culture. The exhibition of Estonian architects, in cooperation with Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues, received a lot of attention at the Venice Architecture Biennale. The 20th PÖFF is one of the fifteen A-category film festivals in the world, the only one in our region. The festival format created by Tallinn Music Week is tried to be copied at several international festivals with named traditions. These are just a few examples, but all of them have been possible because of the internationalisation of our culture. Culture is created and experienced by crossing the borders of nations, countries and cultures in a free and courageous dialogue. Internationalisation is possible if we are an open and friendly society, if we are a society in which we know and believe that different peoples and cultures are not an obstacle, but our chance that the difference really enriches and is a value if we overcome fear and believe that Estonian culture is strong and fierce because it is diverse. We enjoy and preserve this wealth, as David Vseviov has just said again, we are holding this miracle to the Estonian state! A cultural Republic anniversary!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U177	Laine Randjärv asks the Minister the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U178	Thank you very much, manager. Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. The Committee on Culture also had a thorough hearing, and there was not too much new. At the same time, I was surprised that the first ten minutes of 30 minutes were not so much devoted to Estonian cultural policy as to everything else. We remember that the discussions on the fundamentals of cultural policy were heated, both among the cultural people themselves and among the NGOs and politicians, and finally something was agreed, not only philosophical views but also investment. Neither the fundamentals of cultural policy nor the development plan of the Ministry of Culture have I seen the word 'City Hall' in depth. However, the current coalition has planned to invest in Linnahall an unprecedented amount of 40 million. You were talking about good plans here, they could all go unfulfilled. How do you explain that social agreements do not count for the new government and that many cultural objects may remain on hold because there will be such extraordinarily high funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U179	Thank you for your question. I'll start at the beginning. I don't think culture is about itself. I think culture links all of our everyday activities. Tavad, manners and attitudes are part of our culture. Therefore, when we talk about culture, we should not just stay on the narrow path of beautiful arts and cultural values, we should talk more broadly. If we look at the fundamentals of culture policy up to 2020, we will see that integration and cultural diversity are also an important part of this. I think these parallels are very appropriate, and today we should certainly look at the dangers that our culture is facing in relation to the fears that have arisen in society in one form or another. All of this, these specific activities, is described, as I was referring to, on page 53 of the report. Even if it were physically possible, I don't think it's very appropriate to read it to you from the beginning to the end. As far as City Hall is concerned, I believe that our cultural space will win this decision that the government has taken. The city hall is owned by the city of Tallinn, which primarily plans the future of the building. Based on Ernst & Young's analysis of where it would be best to establish an international conference centre, the government decided last week that the state would participate in the renovation of City Hall to the extent necessary to establish an international conference centre. This amount is around EUR 40 million. This money does not come at the expense of any cultural object. This comes from the investment tools of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which are designed to promote tourism. The Ministry of Culture has an excellent opportunity to be in the design of the Linnahall comprehensive solution, when the city and state of Tallinn agree on what this entity will be and who will plan this investment as a whole. This was also the government's decision that representatives of the government, through the relevant ministries, must certainly be members of the council planning the future of the City Hall. Today, however, it is early to talk about specific square meters, the number of seats and even the precise concept, as the process has not yet reached that point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U180	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You devoted your final part of your presentation to the internationalization of culture. Of course, the work of Arvo Pärt and other cultural leaders in bringing Estonian culture to the international arena is invaluable. I saw that the Monday Postman had an interview with Jüri Reinvere, a famous composer, essayist and poet who operates in Germany. He wrote that small countries desperately seek attention in large countries, and so unfortunately, cultural life in their own country is often suffocated. And the more they want to spend on making themselves big, the less power they have on their cultural life. Here's something to think about for us. This is not just an Estonian problem; it is also a problem for many other small countries. It has been discussed in music circles that the Ministry of Culture will only finance a few major music festivals. Does our cultural policy still allow us to give enough right of life to our diverse musical life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U182	Firstly, if you count the award applications rounds that are open at the Ministry of Culture in the field of sound art, then there are probably five of them. There are not so many application lines in any other area that allow you to apply for money for music festivals, music productions, musical publications, etc. In addition, Estonian culture in the world becomes a very large part of the amount of the programme. This hall is certainly a good place to discuss whether, from time to time, we really do not place too much emphasis on the necessity of accessing a large and well-known snare, whether these expenses are always justified. Unfortunately, today I have no knowledge-based basis to claim that it is either that or that. When we talk about diversity, as I said in my presentation, the fundamentals of cultural policy include that we want to clarify the division of roles. Rather, the fundamentals of cultural policy point out that the Ministry of Culture should be more involved in supporting long-standing groups of national cultural importance, and cultural capital should be involved in supporting project-based funding and individual artists. It should not be forgotten that cultural capital shares around EUR 30 million per year. Sound art must have received 1.9 million euros last year. And the use of the money that the cultural capital distributes will be decided by the industry experts themselves. So the role of cultural capital must not be forgotten. Cultural capital has also formulated a mission and a development plan, which allows them to say that these and these things are, in our opinion, justified, these and these activities can promote diversity. Many, however, find a way to use private money or otherwise manage themselves. These are the choices that need to be made. But I will say once again that in the field of sound art, I believe that the most application lines have been launched, and the Ministry of Culture also wants to promote diversity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U183	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U184	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have this question: how does the state support private associations that have committed themselves to recording the memory of famous cultural figures through various recordings, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U185	The answer to whether the state supports private associations individually is that I am currently in debt. Of course, our memory institutions do this work in one form or another, and they also make the choice that should be recorded. I know that many of them do so in cooperation with private associations. It doesn't occur to me right now, I have to make it clear whether there are some forms of application in addition to cultural capital within which this could be done. I'll be sure to be specific and let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U186	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You described very emotionally how you are doing cooperation projects with the city of Tallinn, and you also mentioned Kalev Stadium, which, of course, as a symbol of dance parties is a value in itself. Would you be equally emotionally and passionately willing to support the potential investment of the Tartu Song Festival Square, as it is a cradle of song parties in the sense of history?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U188	This is certainly a forum for discussion, which is the so-called national interest in this work and which is the interest of the local government. After all, I also described the newly organized cultural center in Elva. In general, I am very pleased that the state no longer distributes money for large-scale organisation of cultural centres on the basis of different programmes, but that is what is done from the local government budget. The same example of Elva shows that in this case the result is much better thought out. At a time when, apart from euro money, the state's money was used on such objects, of course, I am particularly haunted by conspiracy decisions, but also by decisions made during the Republic of Estonia, buildings were obviously overstimulated. Examples include various overpasses. It seemed that when the money came, the money would have to be used. As far as Tartu's singing field is concerned, of course, it has a broader meaning, it is not just a place for local government activities. But I don't know that it was somewhere in the investment plan, in the past or in the present. It is therefore necessary to consider whether it should fit there at some point. But we certainly have some discussions ahead of us about how much effort should be made to improve the Tallinn Song Festival Square. Smaller works we do in cooperation with the city of Tallinn even before the children's and young people's song festival. For example, you have to order an expert assessment to replace the slogans that need to be done in the coming years. We also need to clean up the toilets at the sea gate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U189	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U190	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, thank you very much for bringing this 2016 report to this Chamber. We heard that we had quite a number of new and very important cultural institutions completed, and many buildings were renovated and modernised, both in buildings and in their interiors. In your presentation, you pointed out on a few occasions that the fundamentals of cultural policy pay particular attention to integration and cultural diversity. By putting these two things together, I come to my question, which is based on the assumption that, in order for this integration and cultural diversity to be guaranteed, these institutions, as well as the events, must be accessible. How do you assess the current situation? How well accessible are our cultural institutions for people with disabilities? After all, we want them to come to our events both from Estonia and abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U191	I think that, in reality, in our area, perhaps not yet quite well understood this need and, on the other hand, the potential of visitors, which would be provided by the investments made to this end. I believe it is possible to take a big step forward here. In general, when we look at all newly renovated or new buildings, we see that basic requirements have been met. But often only basic requirements that ensure that halls are physically accessible, but the performance, concert or exhibition provided in the hall is not really understandable for a person with visual or hearing impairments. In this regard, we still need to take a major step forward, and I hope that sectoral organisations will be able to be a good partner for the country as experts, also in terms of awareness of the 'benefits' involved. I feel that we do not always see the size of the group that is actually affected by these problems and who are excluded from one cultural event or another because they are not meant for. But luckily, we already have some pretty good examples, and it's possible for them to move on. I'm sure it's very important. This is something that we have constantly paid attention to in our house and as far as we have been able to formulate basic requirements that should be met in Estonian cultural institutions. That's how much we've done. But I think there's a lot of potential. Of course, you have to understand what has not been done in decades. Very many objects we've built several decades ago, and it's not conceivable to rethink everything on the spot. These jobs require time and also great investment. It is precisely awareness of the size of the target group for people with disabilities and those associated with them that is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U192	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U193	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Some articles have been read, and some random lines have been heard that the government has a serious plan to reorganize the distribution of amounts from gambling tax. In this context, I ask how do you think the Gambling Tax Council would begin to distribute the funds that are now going to culture in the event of liquidation. As a member of this council, I have felt that these requests are of the type that could be discussed, for example, by the county expert groups. But maybe there's another elegant solution. Have you had time to think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U194	I think that would be a very good solution, but if we do this, it may not be possible to move this money around cultural capital in just one move. In the field of sport, 22% of the gambling tax is allocated firmly to the Olympic Committee for preparation of the Olympics. In addition, an additional 10%, or almost EUR 1 million, will go to other sports projects. We have already been able to negotiate with the area that if the Gambling Tax Council disappears in this form, how this money could then move forward in such a way that it would free cultural capital from many of the annual projects it is now obliged to deal with. This would give cultural capital the opportunity to channel more money precisely to finance similar projects, as they are in sport. As a matter of principle, this could be the case in the field of culture, but I think that there could really be regional expert groups in particular. But we have not come this far with these discussions, because it is not yet known what proposal will eventually be approved by the government. The Ministry of Finance is preparing its proposal, and I have learned that it will arrive at the government in the near future. I haven't seen it myself yet, and I can't comment on what choices the Ministry of Finance proposes. In my opinion, it is certainly important that these funds continue to be channelled into the areas to which they are currently going. Otherwise, it will be very difficult to agree and implement some reform in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U195	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U196	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you also devoted attention to the financing of national culture and the financing of culture in Estonia. It is extremely worthwhile that, in recent years or, let us say, during the period of re-independence, the role of private operators in promoting national culture has increased. But, as we know, one important source of cultural financing so far is excise duties, including alcohol duty. Your party colleague has entered the fight against alcohol. The aim is to eliminate or at least reduce drinking as a serious social problem on Estonian soil, and that is a great thing in itself. Let's say that he succeeds in this plan and that drinking decreases close to zero, and I understand that this is virtually impossible, do you see in this connection any risk of cultural funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U197	First of all, culture and sport are dealing with the same thing as the Minister of Health and Labour. The aim is to improve the health of Estonian people, both physically and mentally, offering an alternative to unhealthy hobbies. Therefore, I think that it is well-founded to support alternatives through the taxation of evils. There are, as we know, three key factors, which are always mentioned when talking about alcohol consumption, and the Minister of Health has been talking about this in a long time recently. One and the main factor is the price: the more expensive the product is, the less generally it is used. At the same time, we are operating in an open economic space and, for this reason, the price cannot rise as high as it would be for public health. In this way, alternative solutions will be sought. I hope that all the coming governments will listen enough to what the Ministry of Finance is forecasting, and if they raise this price, it will not happen that, on the one hand, excise duties will be significantly reduced, but, on the other hand, people's health behaviour will not improve. I hope they go hand in hand. In this case, when excise duty is increased, resulting in some improvements in human health behaviour, culture and sport may rather take into account additional tax receipts. So when people are willing to pay more for their vices, there will be more money for culture and sport. The current Ministry of Finance forecasts confirm this at least. Theoretically, of course, it is possible that one day these vices will be eliminated. But if there is no greater shock in society, these vices will remain part of our customs and customs, and they will not quickly disappear from the earth. So I am not too worried that the proceeds of cultural capital or the Gambling Tax Council will start to decrease significantly in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U198	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U199	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for this presentation. I have a problem. I have concerns about works of national cultural importance. In recent decades, the Ministry of Culture, on the one hand, and cultural capital, on the other hand, have financed the publication of large texts that are not directly available for funding from research money, but which are not fiction, but are also important for our national culture. For example, the collection of riddles, the collection of proverbs, the Old Harp, the great collection of regilaul, from which the Kodavere volume and the Lüganus volume are about to be completed. If the Ministry of Culture is currently organising financing, do you see the possibility of further supporting such texts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U200	I must now apologise in this sense that a good questioner managed to find a nuance in my subject area, to which I do not know how to answer at all. I'm gonna start feeling really foggy when I start answering that. I hope that no one has tried to stop the financing of these collections, because I absolutely agree that these are the necessary things. But I'm asking you to accept my apology, I really don't know how to answer that! I'll definitely specify it and let you know what these prospects are for the people of our house to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U201	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U202	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You started your presentation by saying that diversity, integration and multiculturalism of cultural space are seen as a threat to fears linked to certain minorities. But fear doesn't come about by itself, it's the result of something. Where does your castle come from? After all, the decline and dissolution of small people and cultures is a common process today. Should Estonia not now convene an international forum to discuss the situation of small people and countries in a rapidly changing world where all these threats are actually present? Perhaps this is a continuation of the aviation-arteric idea that such a forum dedicated to the future of small people and the preservation of their culture is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U203	I agree that as far as Finno-Ugric people are concerned, many of them are without their country. Those languages have often faded to nothing. We must do our utmost and offer our full assistance, as far as possible. We know that this is not always possible because our assistance in organising cultural life is interpreted as interference in the internal affairs of another country. As for Estonian culture, as I said in my presentation, Estonian culture is very viable. We have our own country, we have very clearly set out cultural policy and its fundamental principles. In addition to so-called political financing from the state budget, we have relatively independent sources of financing in the form of cultural capital. And we have a clear policy for the protection of both language and culture. We are a member of the European Union; we are a member of NATO. I think, as I said in my report, that the real threat to our cultural space is self-locking. Living on the reservation does not help culture to develop or be viable. It is also a threat to Estonian culture and Estonian language. However, as far as Finno-Ugric peoples are concerned, I think that communication and dealing with tribal peoples are one of our missions, which we must take very, very seriously in order to preserve the same diversity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U204	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U205	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question actually ties in with the two ministers, concerning the joint undertaking of the Minister of Finance and Culture. I understand from your answers that although the tax on gambling and excise duties on alcohol and tobacco finance culture and sport, the aim is not only to implement the state budget, but also to tax vices and influence people's behaviour. I'm not a big vodka and smoker myself, but I'm looking at these creepy bags of cigarettes with skeletons and internal organs on it. What do you say we celebrate them more culturally? Perhaps we could achieve a better goal by replacing these horrible images with some kind of cultural text. The money from tobacco excise also goes to the Riigikogu to cover the expenses of the Riigikogu. I believe that this objective is much easier to achieve and the effect is greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U206	Thank you for that question, it was very funny. I understand that this was rather a rhetorical issue, but I think that the Riigikogu could consider this proposal and perhaps propose it to the minister curating the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U207	Please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is a pleasure to see that one very large and very necessary item has been completed during your reign, the ERM. How has ERM been in place since it was completed? Is visitation still very high, and has all of this justified itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U209	Thank you. I must be honest with you that there are several people in this Chamber whose contribution to the completion of the ERM is many times greater than my contribution. I was just lucky and honored to be a minister when the house was opened. In this hall are Krista Aru, who is the mother of the current ERM, I hope that she will forgive me for this expression, and several former ministers for culture who have made a very important contribution to the completion of this house. It has been my pleasure that I have seen the finals of this house and have been delighted with their fruits. Of course, I have also had some experience with the criticism inherent in our cultural space, which has touched on secondary nuances in the case of ERM. For example, some people have been unhappy with the way the buffet works. As we know, buffet is mostly the most important place in cultural institutions, and there is always the most intrigue. But in itself, as I have already said, the ERM has received a great deal of recognition in terms of architecture and content, both in Estonia and in the international context. The permanent exhibition "Uurali Kaja" received last year's Best Permanent Exhibition Award from Estonian Museums. Fortunately, the visitor's forecasts are on the rise. The ERM has corrected these projections upwards, not downwards, after the first steps in action. I do not have the in-depth study data available, but if you simply rely on the comments and other feedback collected, the turnover in the tourism sector in the Tartu region has increased considerably thanks to ERM. A number of catering companies expressed concerns about why national restaurants would be made there just before ERM was opened. However, I think that all these companies have, in fact, been able to offer more services than before thanks to the opening of ERM. So it has been a very successful project, both in terms of regional development and international attention. Of course, we understand that, after opening such a very large complex, it will be easier to get large numbers of visitors at first than, for example, when everyone has gone there twice. But we see the great potential of ERM and it is likely that its people will continue to weep that, even if everyone has circled the museum or two, the whole house will be furnished in such a way that the exposition will still be attractive and the turnover and revenue will be sufficient. But there's time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U210	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group and on behalf of Laine Randjärv, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U211	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister. First of all, just such a personal emotion: I am really glad that the Minister mentioned Krista Aru, who is sitting in this Chamber in the context of ERM. There have not been many ministers and politicians who dare to admit that not all the good things have been done by them, but someone has acted before them. That's a very strong word! But now to the report on behalf of the group. Although, under the leadership of Minister of Culture Rein Lang, it was not until 2012 that after several years of preparatory work, we were able to initiate a discussion of the fundamentals of cultural policy and for the third time in the Riigikogu we can listen to the report on how to operate according to these fundamentals, it is not very clear to me what exactly we are discussing here either the implementation of the Ministry of Culture's action plan or something more global. It is really very difficult to formulate a definition that everyone would understand in the same way and be satisfied with it if we were to philosophize a bit about what an animal is at all about this cultural policy. The cultural field is not comparable to any other, because it is difficult to frame. The results to be measured are few, the achievements and the first places in the competitions or festivals have been based on the aesthetic background, education and emotions of the evaluators rather than on the measurement that is equally understandable to everyone. However, something is measured mainly by how much something has cost and whether it is living at the expense of someone else, whether this or another allocation of money is of benefit to anyone other than the recipient of this support. Minister Palmaru has discussed the crossroads of cultural policy in the Working Papers of the Riigikogu in 2005 and has referred to David Easton's view that all sectoral policies are the distribution of values, but their number is limited. Thus, some groups in society win more than others. The first question I raise is the present and future issue of public funding for artists. In particular, I am thinking of the introduction of state artists and writers as Trojan's horse into the Ministry of Culture's budget last year. The opening of a principle that does not agree with the coalition at the time confirms the victory of some creative alliances over others, however, does not prove that such a decision could in any way be a useful and supportive measure for the cultural sphere as a whole. At first we were talking about a pilot project lasting three years, but it was now found in the Ministry that it was right to double the number of state writers and artists without waiting for the three years. I am delighted when the creatives receive a dignified reward for their work, but this system of state writers, as a Soviet model, does not want to be approved. The Ministry has itself emphasised the need to improve cooperation between cultural funding institutions. I think it would also be a good opportunity to resolve the issue of the remuneration of freelance artists. After all, we have a unique institution of cultural capital whose competence and statute provide an opportunity to support the activities of creative people. Several governments have confirmed that the principles of the functioning of cultural capital, its financing, will not be changed, and this is to be welcomed. The future of the money distributed by the Gambling Tax Council needs clarity. It would be bad for funds to be directed towards small-scale regional projects, although small but flexible and important, to dissolve in larger boilers in the process of reorganising the Ministry of Finance. Another major issue is the state financing of the City Hall, which is dealt with in the coalition agreement, which has been put together as a matter of urgency by the current government. At several meetings in the Committee on Culture, the Minister and other representatives of the Ministry have not been able to give the impression that they are familiar with the content and objectives of this exercise. When discussing this in the context of the long-contested 'Cultural Policy 2020' principles, as well as the development plan of the Ministry of Culture signed on 16 March 2016, City Hall is not mentioned in either word. Nor is this in the Minister's investment plan today. The Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre had to wait 20 years until the decision to build the hall of the institution, which had long been agreed, had been approved by the Riigikogu. We are talking about EUR 5 million at the time, but the EUR 40 million to co-finance the work in the City Hall needed nothing more than fingertips, and neither the Ministry of Culture nor the state as a whole has a real view of the future of this money. There has been talk of some mysterious memo that circulates in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and there has been no proper research-analysis, long-term planning of cash flows and proof of their necessity. We hope to find out more about this memo in the near future, and we also expect a reasoned explanation to the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. This query will also go to MKM. In my presentation today, I will focus on three topics that most affect the existential future of our country, based on the understanding that our aim is to preserve the Estonian state by means of language and culture and to exist in the world of hundreds of different cultures in such a way that we can make ourselves understandable and interesting to others. Firstly, our future is based on young people who are culturally educated. It depends on them whether future generations will also develop the habits of cultural consumption and the skills to create it, whether in years' time we can be sure of the survival of Estonian culture. Therefore, it is pleased that the Riigikogu has successfully passed the first reading of the draft intended to support the activities of young people's interest, which was prepared as early as 2007 and which was re-launched following the coalition agreement under the 2015 Government Agreement. The term "interesting activities" includes fine arts, folk culture, scientific circles and sports. One of our actual boulders, songs and dances relies on it. I believe that the concept of recreational activities approved in 2016 is one of the most important cornerstones of cultural policy, which is expected to become a law in the near future. Secondly, I consider it an important cultural policy to support and express innovative thought, to create a modern culture and to preserve heritage culture for the future, anything that falls under the term 'digitalisation'. The report also said more about it, it doesn't go over again. Thirdly, I consider making Estonian culture understandable for other peoples, not just for Estonians themselves. It's a culture export. Culture is a tourist magnet, including support for creative industries and integration. These keywords could also be a priority for cultural policy making, which, as mentioned above, in fact means the preferred distribution of money in trivial terms. To sum it up. Every cent that is invested in the cultural field, whether it is state budget support, private money involved, is an instrument fund and a long tradition of Hennessy concert, or international support funds, for example, for the construction of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre or the Estonian Academy of Arts, all of which is actually a guarantee of the survival and dignity of our country. However, this support must be shared in a clear and transparent way so as not to devalue cultural objects. As we read about Riigikogu Toimetised's conversation circle at the end of last year, we have no shame in culture, but no culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U212	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U213	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! It is that we have arrived in the week of the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, but the thoughts go somehow to the 100th anniversary. When I was surfing the Internet last week, I came to the website created to reflect the events and preparations of the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. Among other things, there is a call for a gift to our country for the 100th anniversary. If I now put together the report of the Minister of Culture today and its wish for a gift, I would say that Estonian cultural policy has the potential to make many more gifts as an anniversary, but some important gifts have already been made. But now to the report. Of course, it is not possible to comment in detail on the 53-page report here, so I will analyse it through the keywords of some priorities. The first keyword could be stability, especially in relation to the creators of culture. It seems to me that a certain level of income is necessary to commit to creating culture. This principle is based on the fundamentals of cultural policy as well as on the formulation and implementation of cultural policy. That was also mentioned in the report. Cultural workers must be paid with dignity and therefore the trend towards an average wage in Estonia is more than self-evident and commendable. Secondly, in my opinion, this stability also includes the salaries of writers and artists, which provide a stable income for creators in top form. There is one good way to test good thoughts: they get attached. About a month ago, we could read that Tartu became the first city writer. The idea of a state writer has evolved into the idea of a city writer, and I hope that many cities will take the lead. When talking about strengthening cultural ties, we cannot mention the amendment of the Youth Work Act, the Education Act of the Republic of Estonia and the Interest School Act, which we have dealt with in this Chamber together. Providing more participation for young people, whether in playgroups, choirs, folk dance groups or role-playing clubs, etc., reinforces the closer and more stable involvement of young people in our culture. Still stable. I am generally convinced that it is from the point of view of a culture policy that guarantees stability that craziness is born, which is so characteristic of culture. I'd call smartness another keyword. I've already noted that a good idea is contagious. The creation of the Estonian Gill Fund is a very good example of this. Figuratively speaking, this country has created a heavily covered snowball that grows as it rolls on. Another example of cleverness would be language cafés and language houses and the acquisition of translation equipment for eight Estonian museums and six performance institutions. It is often the case that to deal with some persistently persistent problem, it is necessary to go out of the box. Such a problem is also language learning and these steps are certainly resourceful. I also admit that some initially clever ideas need to be refreshed. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U214	Please, an extra three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U215	It was good to read in the report that perhaps a little tired, but clever cooperation between the Ministry of Culture, the Estonian Pandipakend and the charity fund Aitan Lapsi has been refreshed: the person who pushes the cultural button of the Razor ATM helps children to go to an environmental play. The third keyword is openness. There are many examples in the world of how isolated cultures, such as the Viking culture in Greenland or the Easter Island culture, have perished. Openness means, on the one hand, awareness and appreciation of your culture, on the other hand, cooperation and dialogue with other cultures, both at the cutting edge of the theatre festivals on the Tallinn-Jõhvi axis and at the grassroots level. We have supported more than 200 minority cultural societies. Fourthly, culture also needs its crown jewel. With great excuses for many important activities, performances and works, I would mention the completion of the Estonian National Museum as the jewel in the crown of last year. Indeed, the completion of the ERM resulted in the completion of a saga that has brought several generations of people up. And it still seems to me that the impact of ERM is more broadly inspiring, at least I went through other museums of Tartu again, inspired by the course of ERM. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I come back to the idea that gifts should be given for the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. Happy members of the Riigikogu in this hall or office with televisions! Take your loved ones to museums and concerts! Give them books! The enthusiastic consumption of culture is a very nice gift for the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U216	Next on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U217	Mr President! Honourable Minister of Culture! Good fellows! In fact, it is very nice that just two days before the 99th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia we are talking about Estonian culture here in the most important hall of the Estonian state. I am sure that all those colleagues who are not currently sitting in the hall are in their offices with televisions and are thinking with us about the issues of Estonian culture. In 2016, the Estonian National Museum was completed. For more than 100 years, ideas, donations of money and items had been gathered for this museum. This museum is very welcome. Not because you needed a big house. The Estonian National Museum has been more than a proud building since the beginning. It's been more of an idea, an idea, a desire to keep the memory of your people, because the memory of the people gives power to the people. And the building of the Estonian National Museum, which has now been completed, is therefore not the end point; it is only the starting point. This is the point that you can ask where we're going, which you can ask all the next generations what we're going to do. What better do we do than our predecessors have done? And there is the openness, the eloquence, the opportunity to give support, the opportunity to ask questions, and the opportunity to find answers. I want to thank all the ministers, all the people of Estonia, but first and foremost the entire ERM Collective, that this house was finally finished. It's not the work of one, ten, or 100 people, it's the work of hundreds of people. And I believe that the current ERM Group will be able to pass it on to the next generations for these questions and answers, and for us all to have a place to return when we are gone from here. However, cultural policy 2020 is not just about the memory of the people and the power of the people. There's a lot more. And these other concepts that have been discussed here today form the heart of folk culture. The strength of Estonian culture has always been that we have managed to act wisely, to learn from other cultures, from Baltic German culture, from Russian culture, from the cultures of many minorities, and to take over from there what is common to us. That is where the strength of Estonian culture is. I very much wish, and actually believe, that our cultural policy, which is guided by financial instruments and other decisions, always means this openness, this capacity for dialogue. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U218	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U219	One might ask what our tomorrow's efforts are, where we should direct them and what they should help to reshape this nucleus. I still see people in the first place. Both people who work in publicly funded institutions and, above all, all of our creative people. I am pleased to say that the Minister of Culture has really taken steps to guarantee at least a minimum wage for cultural workers with higher education, but I urge him to move forward on this path more boldly. Our cultural workers are conscientious, with very good skills, with a great sense of responsibility, and they are a valued workforce everywhere. If today we cannot solve the problem of not paying these specialists a decent salary, then we will just soon lose them. This problem is very serious. Another concern is the health insurance cover for artists. We have passed half the road here under the leadership of the Minister, but the other half also needs to be taken. If the salaries from the various institutions can be added, then perhaps now it would be possible to take the next step and divide it by months, so that health insurance will in any case arise. Our creative artists - musicians, artists, writers - deserve it tenfold. One major problem, unfortunately not addressed by the Minister today, relates to the representatives of minority peoples living in Estonia, including Finno-Ugric peoples, and Estonian diaspora. In all these areas, we have tried to act as a state, to distribute money as project grants, but time and conditions have changed so much that it is time to rethink the diaspora grants, to ask ourselves whether Estonians moving to other countries need the same support as those Estonians who left here in the 1940s. Time has changed, their expectations have changed, but we in Estonia need them to strengthen our culture, our language. And can we no longer help the Finno-Ugric peoples in the way we did ten years ago? If you can't, you have to rethink it. Our culture is the memory of our people, the creative power of our people and the source of the vitality of our people. Whether we are here in the Riigikogu Hall or in the field or in the school or in the exercise field, everything we live on, how we behave, how we view each other is our culture. Let us preserve and cultivate it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U220	Thank you. The Minister would also like a word. Indrek Saare, Minister of Culture, speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U221	Thank you, good members of the Riigikogu, for feedback and discussion, as well as for the discussions we have had in the Committee on Culture! Formal rituals must always be carried out, but indeed, all these discussions have been very substantive. They have still inspired the people of the Ministry of Culture, and every time we have had ideas on how to do something better. I have called upon you myself to have a critical sense of mind, and I am very pleased when things are viewed critically. But I also said that spinning fog is definitely not the thing that should go along with it. At this point, I would like to correct the spinning of a mist. Laine Randjärv called the writer's and artist's wages Trojan's horse and Soviet system. You see, this is a typical example of distortion of facts and creation of myths. The idea of a writer's salary comes from the first Republic of Estonia. If you go out this door, we'll see that the works of Anton Hansen Tammsaare 'Truth and Justice' are put out beautifully. This was paid by Anton Hansen Tammsaare, Eduard Vilde, and by a large number of Estonian writers who were still active at the time, who have written the main texts and meaningfuled our national self-image and identity for the writer's salary, which was then paid through cultural capital. So it's pure fog spinning when that comparison comes in. And I wouldn't call that salary outrageous and Trojan horse. This system could only be called outrageous in the sense that the Union of Writers and Artists has been dealing with this issue for years and has gone to the ministers about it, but several ministers have simply not listened to it. However, this does not mean that it is an outrageous idea. The whole system has been under discussion for a very long time. The creation of artists' and writers' salaries is, in my opinion, not unfair in any way, as was the case with the recent comment. But I want to rejoice with you and I hope that, if not already born, then surely now, when the creators of the re-independence Republic of Estonia receive an artist's and writer's salary, there will be trunk texts that will be considered to be a very important part of our cultural history in decades' time and which will give meaning to our national identity for a longer period. Once again, I thank the Riigikogu for its attention and reflection.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U222	Thank you. The negotiations are over. I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U223	The sixth item is the second reading of the draft law 320 on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Finance Committee, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U224	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 7 November last year. The first reading took place on 18 January and the deadline for submitting amendments was 1 February. Immediately after the first reading, six letters of engagement were sent to the interest groups of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and others. We received four responses. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry stated in its letter that it supports the draft and considers it important that this law enters into force on 1 April this year. The Tax and Customs Board will then be able to disclose by 10 April the number of employees in the first quarter and the amounts of VAT. The Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association announced that they are working closely with the Ministry of Finance regarding the development of the big block of the amendment. The Estonian Taxpayers' Association proposed, which coincides with that of my colleague, Aivar Sõerdi, and which has been drafted in Table 3 of the amendments. I'll talk about that a little bit later. The largest package of proposals came from the Estonian Banking Association and it found the full support of the Ministry of Finance. As a result of the cooperation between the Banking Association and the Ministry of Finance, we received a letter in which the proposed proposals were well drafted and all of them are set out in Amendment 4. The first and second reading discussions took place in the Commission at its meeting on 13 February. All the organisations involved were invited to participate. Two Ministries of Finance and Justice, the Tax and Customs Board, also participated in one of Mrs Bank Associations. There was a debate. In particular, we have discussed the proposals of the Banking Union, as well as other amendments. I will now introduce you to the amendments. The first one is purely technical. The point is that it was originally intended to replace the term 'voluntary work' in the law with the sentence that I now have to read, otherwise 'work in the economic interests of a culprit and a self-employed person cannot be paid'. This formulation was to replace this same 'voluntary work' and the first amendment regulates this issue. This amendment was supported by consensus. The second proposal is also technical; it simply amends the reference to one law, because what was previously the State Family Benefits Act is currently the Family Benefits Act. We will make this change with another amendment. The third amendment is tabled by Mr Sõerd. The author of the proposal explains that the observation of movable property is regulated in § 62 and 65 of the Tax Administration Act. The amendment of the observation regulation in §72 (1) and (2) of the Tax Administration Act is not necessary as it could lead to a violation of the fundamental rights of the taxpayer. As I have already said, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association made the same proposal in its letter to the Monetary Commission. The Ministry of Finance did not support the proposal. In relation to the opinion of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, the Ministry of Finance explained in its letter: "The main aim of the revision of the observation regulation is to avoid costly and unnecessary disputes as to whether the tax administration can derive from the interpretation of the Act the right to also consider movable matters located outside the company's place of business and held by a person not engaged in economic or professional activities at the time of the survey. 'This person not engaged in economic or professional activities' is an expression in law. I would remind you that both at first reading in this Chamber and at two debates in the Commission, this issue was the most controversial. You could even say that this was the only question that raised certain doubts. At the meeting of the Finance Committee, representatives of both the Ministry of Finance and the tax administration explained that the observation was an official act in the context of a specific tax procedure. It shall normally be carried out with prior notice and with the agreement of the taxpayer. It means that there's always such a suspicion that it kind of reminds me of some kind of surveillance, etc. Commenting on this, the Minister had to confirm at first reading several times today that this was happening unexpectedly. So it is not on notice and with the consent and presence of the taxpayer. There are also exceptions to this, but they relate to the fact that the taxpayer cannot be captured or it is obvious that the taxpayer will hide the assets or otherwise make it impossible to achieve the objective of observation. I mean, if there is a taxpayer who cannot be reached, that in itself is a little weird, then the procedure that has been in place so far is simply not appropriate. If you can't find a person, you can't tell him anything, and that's why there are certain exceptions to what they're talking about. The results of the survey shall be recorded on-the-spot by the tax authority; the observation shall not be by chance or with a floating maturity. The law obliges the tax authorities to choose the most appropriate and least burdensome control measures. Thus, neither the Tax Administration Act currently nor the implementation of the amendments allow random surveys to be carried out for the purpose of so-called fishing, nor the dispersal of observation over a longer period of time, i.e. the pursuit of surveillance activities. In such a case, it would be discreet monitoring, i.e. surveillance, and the information thus collected could not be used in the tax procedure. In addition, such activities may qualify as criminal offences. At the moment, I briefly summarised everything we talked about in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for quite a long time. These were basic questions, and the same question was actually asked several or several times. The third amendment was voted through, with a result that was not consensual; 2 members of the Commission were in favour, against 5. So it was not supported by the Commission. The main volume of these changes, which are now at second reading, is those which have come together with Amendment 4 and which have been proposed by the Eesti Pank Association. We discussed them on 13 February. You were there, like I said, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Tax and Customs Board. All representatives considered regulation necessary and supported it in the form proposed by the Ministry of Finance. The support of this amendment was consensual. I also have to say that since there was a need to further amend the laws on the proposal of the Banking Association, in order to ensure that the title of the law does not stretch too long, the draft now bears the title 'Law amending the Tax Order Act and, in this respect, the law amending other laws'. Normally, according to good practice, in this case, the second reading will be interrupted and I asked the Commission whether it wanted to do so. The matter was discussed and it became clear that the Commission will be able to put together the full text very nicely today, so we do not need any additional time to improve it. Three decisions were taken with consensus, and I will read them to you immediately. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on Wednesday 22 February. Secondly, to propose the termination of the second reading and, thirdly, to propose that the draft be sent to the third reading by 8 March 2017 when the second reading is completed. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U225	Thanks to the waitress! You have questions too. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U226	Honourable Vice President! Honourable waitress! Here's the question. When you spoke about Amendment 3, you did not say that one of the factors that led to this proposal was § 1 (24) of the draft. The explanatory memorandum says why it's needed. It states, among other things, that the need to amend the law is due to the fact that the purpose of the law is not in line with a situation where there is no right of observation when a member of the management board of a taxable person is seated at the wheel of the vehicle. In this regard, I asked the Minister at first reading how the survey would be conducted. He did not answer me then, but later he replied in writing, and we in the Commission dealt with this subject a little bit. One thing we have learned is that there will certainly be information for the taxpayer. But I also had the other part of the question: is a moving or standing vehicle being viewed? Maybe you can answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U227	I'd rather be based on my life experience when I answer that. I can't imagine a tax authority who, on the move, let's say, if the car's speed is 60 kilometers per hour, starts to chat, shoot, or jump from one car to another. I therefore assume with 99% probability that it is a stationary vehicle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U228	Thank you. No further questions for you. Do you want to open negotiations? I don't see any requests. We will go to the examination of the amendments. Four amendments were tabled. The first amendment was tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment was also tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment was tabled by Aivar Sõerd; the position of the commission is to disregard it. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U229	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U230	Thank you. Let us put this proposal to a vote. I shall put to the vote the third amendment tabled by Mr Sõerd. The position of the commission is not to take this into account. Please take a stand and vote. 10 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 28 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 320. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U231	The seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation by Minister of Finance Sven Sester, representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U232	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I'm gonna give you a briefing on the bill bearing the number 380. This is a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law. Its main objective is to levy excise duties on new types of tobacco products, which are referred to in the draft as alternative tobacco products. Such products include e-cigarette nicotine and nicotine-free filling liquids and steam stones used as a substitute for water pipe tobacco. The aim of the tax on alternative tobacco products is to protect public health, ensure equal competition between conventional cigarettes and operators of alternative tobacco products, and prevent the reduction of excise revenue from substitute products. Alternative tobacco products are popular among minors and young people and, as such, can encourage the start of tobacco consumption. Of British children under 18 years of age, at least 10% of e-cigarettes have tried, while in the USA this figure is 16%, while in Estonia we have Estonian schoolchildren's health behaviour in 2013/2014. 33% of school students aged 11 to 15 tried e-cigarettes, according to the study report for the academic year. The proposed rate of excise duty on alternative tobacco products is EUR 0,2 per ml of tobacco fluid. The rate of excise duty was calculated on the basis of the results of the Italian tests and the purchasing power of the people in Estonia. According to the Italian test results, one milliliter of e-cigarette liquid takes as much time as 5.6 cigarettes to smoke. Alternative tobacco products are planned to be subject to a lower excise duty than conventional cigarettes in order to mitigate the effects of border trade. The full rate would be EUR 0,64 per ml. With a view to curbing the secret market, it is also appropriate to apply a lower excise duty rate initially. Account has also been taken of the fact that costs for e-cigarettes are higher for equipment than for conventional cigarettes due to costs. A solid substitute for tobacco, such as steam stones, is a substitute for smoking tobacco and is therefore subject to the same rate of excise duty as smoking tobacco: EUR 76,84 per kilogram as from 2018. Alternative tobacco products are expected to be taxed from 2018 onwards and are expected to generate an additional EUR 1 million of excise revenue in 2018. The bill also increases excise duty on cigarettes and cigarillos. So far, the increase in excise duty has been delayed as it was necessary to analyse the effects of the increase in excise duty in a situation where a rate of two components would be introduced. The new rate of excise duty on cigarettes and cigarillos is EUR 151 per 1000 cigars or cigarillos and 10% of the retail price. This rate of excise duty takes better account of the differences between cigarillos and cigarettes. Indeed, the price of cigarillos will become more competitive compared to the prices of cigarillos in the Member States where a proportionate rate is applied. The application of the price-dependent rate of excise duty on products will not result in a reduction as the draft requires excise duty to be paid at least at an amount corresponding to the rate of excise duty in force. The amendment will result in an additional EUR 100000 to the budget for 2018. The draft also provides for the possibility of payment of additional excise duty in the case of distance sales. If, under the current rules, the seller has to pay the excise duty via the tax representative, then the consignee of the excise goods will also be able to pay the excise duty in the future. Several changes are being made to reduce red tape and simplify the work of the tax authorities. The paper-based accounting of tobacco tax marks will be replaced in the future by an electronic database, which will facilitate the work of economic operators, on the one hand, and the tax authorities, on the other. From now on, the company will not have to print the delivery note required for the transport of excise goods out of the electronic database; the tax authorities will be able to verify the existence of the delivery note from the electronic system. The requirement for the operator to produce a notarised certified document on the territory of the excise warehouse and the right to use the building shall be abolished. Again, the tax authority receives the necessary information from the electronic database. The Tobacco Act will be amended as a result of the objective of amending the Excise Act to bring it into line with each other. The date of entry into force of the Act is scheduled for 1 January 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U233	There are also questions for the rapporteur. First Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U234	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you for your presentation. Latvia has been much faster than us; they have been implementing this regulation for a year and a half before we reached it. We're slowing things down. We are also monitoring how things work in neighbouring countries. I know that you met with the Latvian and Lithuanian Minister of Finance in the framework of the last Ecofin meeting, you had a joint seat. What is Latvia's experience in collecting excise duty on e-cigarettes? Have they collected as much as is foreseen in their plans? How have they succeeded? Do we have anything to learn from Latvian experience?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U235	Thank you. I think Latvia will report on its actual experience in the future. Let us note that Latvia passed this law last year, in July 2016. So only six months have this new system worked in Latvia. All countries are slowly starting to pay more attention to this particular business sector. When I look at the action of the Member States of the European Union, I see that it is moving quietly but firmly. By this day, ten countries have implemented or are about to implement the law. For the benefit of Parliament, too, one of the first Member States of the European Union was Italy, which already implemented excise duties on e-liquids in 2014. The next one was Portugal in 2015 and has been followed by a rafter. Latvia introduced it in July 2016, Slovenia in August 2016, Romania also in 2016, Finland and Greece in 2017 and Estonia will establish it in 2018. He keeps going like this. But, of course, it's a long way to go. We are talking about 10 countries now, but there are many more countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U236	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U237	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, There are thousands of people in Estonia who have decided to improve their health and live a little healthier for themselves and their loved ones. They've quit smoking and taken the e-cigarette instead. Aren't you afraid that if we financially equate the consumption of e-cigarettes with regular cigarettes or even make them more expensive, many people will give up e-cigarettes and start smoking traditional cigarettes again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U238	Thank you. You asked me if I was afraid of it. It would be easy to answer that you're not afraid. But you know me, I'm not gonna stop at that simple answer, I'm gonna try to answer more thoroughly. The layout of your question was that I'm going to make a little correction right now. We do not equate the price of cigarettes and e-cigarettes, not to mention making the latter more expensive. We are not setting them at the same level, rather taxing e-cigarettes about three times cheaper than the current tax. As I said in my introductory speech, the full rate would be EUR 0.64 per ml, we will tax it with EUR 0.2. Why the EUR 0.2, there are different reasons why I can explain them separately when you have an interest. It's based on analysis. But basically, we tax much lower rates than we could. You asked if we did not see the prospect of a classic product being switched to an alternative product. I used to give examples in the introduction that it could be just the other way around. It may be that the alternative product is switched to a classic product at some point. The same study I was talking about showed that true story, 33% of schoolchildren aged 11 to 15 have tried e-cigarette. I'm sure it's a matter of thought.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U239	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I, too, would like to look at the bigger plan on this issue and ask how the harmful effects of alternative tobacco products, i.e. e-cigarettes, are still the case. You have told us about a study on use, but against this draft, the argument has been repeatedly highlighted in the media that it has not been proven internationally acceptable how harmful alternative tobacco products and e-cigarettes are. What would you say to these opponents? What in your eyes proves their harm? Otherwise you wouldn't come out with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U240	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U241	Yeah, that's your point. The market is very new, and this is what Aivar Sõerd drew attention to in his question. I guess other countries will quietly start taxing alternative tobacco products. More and more attention will be paid to this. Of course, if it is a market for a new product, the relevant evidence-based data will still be collected. Depending on what interests he has in the game, each party tries to develop the process in a favourable direction to itself. There's nothing weird about that. It has been argued that alternative tobacco products, mainly e-cigarettes, are safer than conventional cigarettes, after all. But it hasn't been irrefutablely proven. Rather, it has been said that completely new substances are coming into use that are not in conventional cigarettes. These are by nature such compounds, I am not a chemist, I rely on research done so far, such as propylene glycol, etc. In new nicotine-free and nicotine-free liquids, these new substances start to damage the central nervous system, liver, and heart at one point in time and in certain amounts. Indeed, I am not a very strong expert on the effects of chemical substances, and I do not know exactly what their effects on our health are. But research, mostly WHO, shows that attention needs to be paid to this. Substances containing e-liquids are not good for the body due to their toxicity. To be convinced of this, we also see the action of other Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U242	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The explanatory memorandum states that the volume of the market for alternative tobacco products, i.e. their share, is not very high. Do you have a more precise idea of what this is all about? The definition of 'not very large' does not say almost nothing to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U244	Thank you. Yeah, look, smokers aren't obliged to register anywhere. So this is some kind of empirical data set. I think that experts who put together pre-emptive reports have communicated with market players and also take into account which figures have been used as a basis for drafting legislation in other countries. Of course, this market is still developing and we do not really have an overview of how much equipment is sold that can be used to draw e-cigarettes at all, as well as e-cigarette liquids. There is no separate purchase registration. It is estimated that around EUR 1 million could be received in 2018. However, I can tell you that this amount has been corrected quite strongly. But taxation of e-cigarettes is not a new issue. As early as 2015, the topic of e-cigarettes was put on the table after the elections and started to be dealt with. So this is a long-prepared process. I remember that then it was assumed that the market for e-cigarettes would receive a much higher amount in the state budget than what it is now. But experts confirm that this market is growing, and not only in Estonia, but in all other countries. If there is an obligation to register by paying the excise duty, we will get a better picture of everything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U245	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, You referred to the Italian study on the basis of which the excise duty rate was established from 2014. This study was carried out when e-cigarettes from the previous generation were used, using a much stronger liquid but in smaller quantities. Today's technology has evolved and the fluids are completely different. According to your excise calculations, based on an outdated study, some e-cigarette smokers should smoke 150 cigarettes a day. My question: why have you based an outdated study and why have you not taken into account the analyses and suggestions of the E-cigarette Sellers and Users Association?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U247	Thank you. Estonia is a parliamentary state and we are in the process of proceeding with this draft. I mean, it's just the first reading today. Every bill that is passed as a law in this Chamber passes three readings. In the meantime, it will also be possible to base further studies, negotiate with stakeholders, listen to additional arguments. Parliament certainly has this opportunity. As I said, there are studies that confirm the harmfulness of e-cigarettes. You must also assume that e-cigarettes are not harmless. The question is how harmful they are. I think you think so in the end, too, but I certainly don't want to put words in your mouth. I assume that they are not harmless, and the question is how great their bad influence is. If we look at the excise duty rates with which they will be taxed, as I said in reply to your first question, under this draft, alternative tobacco products will be taxed on the basis of the lowest possible level of taxation. And as far as Italy is concerned, the Italians have opted for almost twice the level: their excise duty rate is 0.38 against our potential 0.2.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U248	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U249	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Here's the question. As regards the rate of excise duty on alcohol, it has been argued that the percentage difference with neighbouring countries may be up to 20%, this does not have a significant impact on border trade. What could the price difference be when it comes to excise duties on tobacco products? What difference could have a significant impact on border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U250	Thank you. I would say that was one of the reasons why excise duty levels were brought down in the draft. But there are other reasons, so I'll stop at them. One reason really was that it has to be taken into account that some countries do not yet have excise duties. It is currently only in ten countries and there are many countries where it does not apply. We have tax payers on both sides, both in Finland and Latvia, the goods are subject to excise duty. But yes, in many countries there aren't. We must bear in mind that this is a new issue which raises issues both in border trade and in wider trade at all. This is certainly a nuance to be taken into account when applying this rate of excise duty. We currently have no data on the use of e-cigarettes. And since we do not have the goods taxed, we do not have an overview of border trade. But there are some features for us. In the case of e-liquids taxation, border trade in Member States has increased over time by 10 to 50%. However, we simply have to take into account that in the two neighbouring countries this excise duty has already been introduced at a higher level in Finland and lower in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U251	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is motivated by the fact that you have also referred to the fact that young people also use e-cigarettes. The excise duty, of course, has a practical objective of getting money into the budget, but it is also a noble goal to change health behaviour. How much excise duty should e-cigarettes grow so that young people don't put their hands on them? That is the goal, although I believe that they are healthier than ordinary cigarettes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U252	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U253	By chance, I heard the Minister of Culture speaking here today about the country's cultural policy. I heard that you asked him about the fact that you're not afraid that if we make a vigorous effort to make less alcohol consumption, perhaps we will at some point arrive at a situation where we no longer have the money to fund culture. This was a good trick question, which the Minister of Culture left half unanswered, even though he answered for a very long time. I would add to what he said that it is actually possible to calculate, according to the macro data, the large costs of the health insurance fund related to alcohol. There are certain procedures and treatments. Potentially, when alcohol consumption decreases, certain diseases are likely to decrease. You can draw an equal sign between them. It's the same with tobacco. The main objective must certainly be to reduce consumption. However, as I said in answering one question, the market for e-cigarettes and any alternative tobacco products is growing rather than shrinking. This is also one of the reasons why this issue is given great attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U254	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions for you. I now ask for a presentation by the Commission by Priit Sibula, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U255	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Finance discussed this draft at its meeting on 13 February and I am pleased to thank my fellow Members from the Committee on Monetary Affairs who entrusted me with the presentation of the Commission. At our sitting, the minister who was just before us presented the bill, and then he spoke just as thoroughly. Many of the questions raised in this Chamber today also arose in the Commission. In addition to the Minister of Finance, the Commission was invited by Mr Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and by Heidi Vessel, Head Specialist of the same department. Now very briefly, about some of the questions raised in the Commission. There was an interest in whether the use of e-cigarettes and ordinary cigarettes and alcohol among children has been studied and compared. The Ministry of Social Affairs has these records, but we weren't introduced to them at the hearing. A question was asked about the entry into force of the draft, which the Minister has already spoken about. The question of the tax rate, the triple difference, had also been discussed. Members of the Commission also had the impression that we were taxing very heavily, but an example was given that, in reality, we have a corresponding excise duty rate three times lower than for other tobacco products. The example of Portugal was given by the Commission: at the beginning, the rate of excise duty was set at EUR 60 cents per ml, reduced to 30 cents in 2017. There was also talk of border trade, and more specifically, it was examined whether passengers were subject to restrictions on the introduction of e-cigarette fluid. In response, we have heard that it has not been regulated at European Union level, but according to the draft, Estonian residents from other Member States will be able to import up to 50 milliliters of this goods in the future. It was also wanted to know how this planned excise revenue, or EUR 1.1 million, is divided between the taxation of cigars, cigarillos and e-cigarette liquids. In response, we found that an increase in excise duty on cigars and cigarillos resulted in 0.1 million and the rest from the taxation of liquids. The Commission decided to submit this draft for the first reading of the large hall and to conclude the first reading. The decision was consensual. The deadline for amendments was 10 working days, i.e. the deadline would be 5.15 p.m. on 9 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U256	You don't have any questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 380. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 380 amendments, including 9 March at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U257	Today's eighth and last item is the first reading of the draft Act 379 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U258	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu for ratification by the Republic of Estonia and the Kingdom of Denmark a draft agreement amending and terminating the agreement on the facilitation and mutual protection of investments. This agreement between Estonia and Denmark was signed on 6 November 1991 in Tallinn and entered into force on 24 February 1993. Last year, 16 February 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Denmark sent a note to the Embassy of the Republic of Estonia in Copenhagen with a proposal to amend and terminate the agreement. The contract must be amended before it is terminated, since, in accordance with its own provisions, the contract will continue to apply to investments made during the period of validity ten years after the termination of the contract. It is therefore necessary to amend the Agreement in order to bring it to an end in full. Why is it necessary to terminate this agreement? This is necessary in order to ensure equal treatment for all investors in the Member States of the European Union under European Union law. Investment promotion and protection agreements concern areas governed by European Union law. In particular, they are freedom of establishment, equal treatment and the free movement of capital and payments. Thus, the protection of investments and equal treatment of investors in EU countries are governed by European Union law, and bilateral agreements between Member States have no substantive meaning. The biggest problem in reality is that there is a large difference between the current European Union rules and the Estonian-Danish Treaty. This concerns the resolution of disputes between the investor and the State of the Contracting Party. The bilateral agreement between Estonia and Denmark provides that in the event of disagreement between the state and the investor, the dispute will be resolved by arbitration. It may also be necessary to interpret European Union law in the course of dispute settlement, which is the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Union and not of an arbitration tribunal established in a third country. The termination of the bilateral investment facilitation and protection agreement will help to avoid problems that, in the event of potential disputes between the State and the investor, could lead to a situation where there is a conflict with European Union law. The law of the European Union does not differ in substance from that of the Treaty to be terminated. Thus, the only substantive difference is that if the agreement is terminated, the investor cannot turn to an arbitration centre in a third country, such as the investment dispute resolution centre in Washington. The rights of investors are protected by European Union law and the business of Danish investors in Estonia or the investments of Estonian investors in Denmark will not be significantly affected by the termination of the agreement. Denmark has already completed its national procedures for the entry into force of the Agreement. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U259	Any questions for the waitress? Doesn't look like it. Thanks to the waitress! I would like to ask Mr Marko Šorini, Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U260	Dear Vice-Chairman, Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of this draft for the first reading at its meeting on 13 February. The contents and objectives of the draft act were presented to us by Priit Pallum, Director of Trade Policy and Office of International Economic Organisations in the Department of Foreign Economic Affairs and Development Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was explained to the Commission that since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, investment protection and promotion policies are part of the common commercial policy and fall under European Union law. There would be a legal conflict if the agreement were to continue to be in force, as the Minister has just explained to us here. The European Commission has encouraged all Member States to terminate such bilateral agreements, and some countries have been subject to infringement proceedings if they have not been willing to take action in this respect. Some questions also arose in the Commission, although it may have seemed that this was a routine process of termination of the contract. During the answer to the questions, it became clear that similar contracts, which also belong to the winding-up process, still have 10/15. Since there is no consensus among Member States on how to terminate such bilateral agreements, this process has been going on for two or three years now. There is no consensus between Member States as some countries wish to protect their investments in order to ensure legal certainty. Furthermore, the European Court of Justice is debating whether this whole area is still a shared competence of the European Union or whether it is a mixed competence. For some countries, this issue is not a priority either. The Commission decided by consensus to propose the inclusion of a draft law on the agenda of 379 plenary sessions for the first reading on 22 February and to close the first reading. It was also decided that when the first reading was completed, the Riigikogu Board could set the deadline for the amendments on 3 March 2017 at 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-22_U261	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks for the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 379. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 379 amendments, including 3 March at 4 p.m. Good Riigikogu, today's working day in this hall is over. I wish you a nice day. Closure of the sitting at 6.13 p.m.
