ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U1	On 10 November Karin Tammemägi became a member of the Riigikogu due to the end of the mandate of Andrei Novikov, a member of the Riigikogu. Next, we will hear his oath. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U3	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U4	Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U5	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party, I have an appeal to the Honorable Chancellor of Justice. An inquiry shall be made on the proportional representation of local council committees and on the right of members of the council to belong to them. It is, in itself, very regrettable that it must be raised in this way immediately after the local elections, but there is nothing to be done. Namely, last Tuesday, I don't know if it should be called a black Tuesday in the history of Estonian self-government policy, or how at least the council of Narva and Viimsi were together and made strange decisions. One council thus decided that part of the members elected to the council would not be approved by the council committees, although this clearly does not comply with the law. In the last one, it was a 'lukewarm'. It did so by not complying with the legal requirement that representation in committees be proportionate to the result of the election or the representation of political forces, electoral lists, electoral associations and political parties within the council. That too was very hard to miss. Maybe there are more examples, we don't really know right now. But in any case, the Riigikogu here made the law more protective of the principle of democracy, so that there would be a proportionate representation in the committees, even during the previous Riigikogu membership, by the way, it was a draft initiated by the social democrats , and it has been brought to the attention of the social democrats in the past. Even before the amendment, Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks had a very clear position. We expect answers again from the current Chancellor of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U6	No more wishes. I have accepted an inquiry. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau takes it to the proceedings. Incoming check, please! 80 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. Adoption of the agenda. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the 8th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U7	According to the agenda: Members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külliki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas, Jüri Adams and Ain Lutsep. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U8	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, At the end of September, the members of the Free Party Group submitted an inquiry to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, regarding planned changes in the management of the Health Insurance Fund. We tried to get information from the Minister and the Health Insurance Fund proactively about what will be done if the management of the Health Insurance Fund is fundamentally changed. At the same time, the draft law amending the Health Insurance Fund Act was also reached in the Riigikogu, from which the point discussed today was surprisingly omitted for all of us. But what did we want to know about our inquiry from the Minister? The Estonian Health Insurance Fund is such an important organisation or structure that all decisions taken there concern every Estonian person from birth to death. These strategic decisions are taken and made by the Health Insurance Board. At the time we submitted an inquiry, the draft law and the package of health changes that had taken place in the coordination round had been proposed to reduce the number of members of the health fund's board from 15 to 7. As I said, around the same time, we received an amendment to the Health Insurance Fund Act here in the Riigikogu, from which this point has been removed. All the more so, we want to know why such changes were planned in order to limit, in addition to reducing the size of the Council, who may be a member of the Health Insurance Board and whether the members of the Council may be people involved in the provision of health services. Similarly, the issue of why the interests of the so-called "insured persons" were most affected by reducing the composition of the Health Insurance Fund's board, by reducing their representation, as well as the interests of employers. The last question is more about how it is planned to ensure compliance with the law and the integrity of the Health Insurance Fund's reserves. That is the kind of question we expect the Minister to answer. We look forward to a meaningful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U9	Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, must answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U10	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! Thank you for your questioning on an undoubtedly important subject, which, as you rightly point out, has certainly received a keen focus in the wider context of health management changes, both in society at large and in the public health sector and, of course, among the representatives of the legislator. I am happy to explain the changes we have prepared. I will answer your questions, which are four in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U11	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry! Honourable ambassadors at the end of the hall, who are meeting there! I'd like you to do it somewhere else. Thank you. I ask the performer to continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U12	Thank you very much. The first question: 'The doctorate is dissatisfied with the planned change, because a thorough knowledge and understanding of the needs of patients, the functioning of the medical field and the conditions for doing so is essential in making health policy decisions. Why have you restricted the board members to the exclusion of people who are involved in the provision of healthcare, the handling of medicines or the management of a representative health organisation? In this way, you directly exclude people with health competence from being part of the Council. ' Before I answer this question, I will give good colleagues who are not familiar with the area on a daily basis a brief overview of the current situation. The Health Insurance Board is established, first, on the basis of the principle of social partnership, which means that employers' representatives, representatives of insured persons and representatives of the state are represented in parities. The establishment of the Health Insurance Fund was based on the so-called'social parliament' model, which means that these different groups can be represented at the Council level in the broadest possible way. That is why the Council has 15 members, each of the three social partners has five members. It was, of course, a choice at the time for some reasonable reasons in order to bring to the council a wider range of social support and opinions under the management of the common health insurance fund and the health insurance system. On the other hand, in my practice, I have also seen my predecessors and colleagues in other positions have seen it just as well, that this has not led to certain disadvantages. As always, plus pluses are often negatives. The Council is a little too large to take strategic decisions and hold strategic discussions. This has been a practical concern, for example, in meeting the quorum when decisions have to be taken, even though the members of the Council have been conscientious and have flexibly redesigned their plans. But in any case, it's something that has to be considered. On the other hand, it has been a practice that both employers and the insured have sent people to the Council as their representatives who have a clear relationship with the decisive points of health care or health insurance. For example, pharmaceutical companies or an association of hospitals representing the Council, and just as many representatives of insured persons have appointed people to the Council who either work in health care or have other direct concerns in this area. This has led to a very large part of the decisions taken by the Health Insurance Fund being taken at the board level, because it is not possible for them to be debated at the level of the Council, given that it will be very quickly affecting the direct interests of one or another specific member of the Council. The final part of this review concerns the role of the Council as such. The model of the Health Insurance Board, based on the model of the Social Parliament, has two roles at the same time. One role is that of the Health Insurance Fund as a public institution, in fact, as the management of a public insurance undertaking or the management of an insurance institution, where strategic goals must be pursued, i.e. the budget must be reviewed, auditors must be appointed, etc., the management and management of the insurance company must be supervised. On the other hand, what the honourable author referred to is what society, in particular, expects of the Health Insurance Board, namely the management of health care, the provision of health services and the provision of health services. I must say that the simultaneous implementation of these two roles in the Council has proved to be relatively this... well, in simple terms, problematic. Different things need to be monitored at the same time. Monitoring whether the budget is balanced and whether transactions are done correctly requires people with a certain degree of competence. Whether the heart should be covered or not by medication in the health fund's price list requires a completely different level of competence. We have been in a situation where there were people in the Council who were very well on one side, but absolutely did not take the other side, but they had to make decisions in both areas and were in fact personally and fully responsible for both decisions in accordance with the law. Consequently, the fundamental philosophy of this amendment is to separate these two roles, so that the Health Insurance Board will take strategic decisions in the future, in particular on financial sustainability and, consequently, on the provision of the statutory solidarity health service to all persons, and on the basis of specific decisions on the list of health services, on the one hand or on the other, on procedures at such prices and prices, on the listing of new medicines, on one- or different medical devices and on all other things, which require very thorough medical skills, these decisions would be made at specialist level. In the future, professionals would be involved in their respective collections in a much broader and more par excellence, so that these decisions would also be more comprehensively analysed and agreed at expert level. Consequently, in addition to the management board, we offer a two-tier system for the management of the health insurance fund, so that there are committees attached to the board that actually process the most important document TTL, the list of health services, which is endorsed by the Government of the Republic, but which is currently provided by the board of directors of the health insurance fund. In the future, it would receive substantial input from health professionals through these committees. Here is an analogy with the Committee on Medicinal Products, which in the same way makes considered proposals on which medicinal products should be added to the list of preferential medicines, which are not. The Council will examine whether these proposals are consistent with strategic objectives and are budgetable and will then submit proposals for approval to the Ministry of Social Affairs. What is important is that we want to continue to respect the principle of social partnership, which means that the country should not have a majority vote compared to the social partners, so that the country cannot cross partners, and that is what we will ensure. Our initial plan was to create the Council's unemployment fund board logic. The Unemployment Insurance Board is known to work on the principle of 2: 2, i.e. two employers, two trade unions and two representatives of the state. In discussing this issue, the Government of the Republic considered it important that the state has a representative of the opposition in the Health Insurance Fund, in addition to two ministers, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health. Consequently, at this stage, we have also proposed that the state include a third person, who would be the representative of the opposition according to the position, which in our view would be the chairman of the special committee on the control of the state budget. But this is certainly an issue that can still be discussed in the future. The social partners were more in agreement with this proposal. In their view, it was important that the social partners, or employers and trade unions, have a majority together, and this is maintained in line with this proposal. In addition, we have offered one representative to the Chamber of People with Disabilities as I believe to be the strongest representative organisation of patients in Estonia, as the difference between the unemployment fund model, which includes one representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions and one representative of the Union of Trade Unions for Workers. That's how these seven places come together. You will ask the following question how or in what way these committees will be built up accurately in the future and in what way healthcare professionals will be able to give their input there. This has rightly raised a number of questions, as this explanation has remained relatively general at the level of the draft. We've been through this with the parties. Indeed, we have seen it and are ready to fix it more precisely at the level of the law, that it is not just an advisory body, where the association of doctors, the association of nurses and the association of family doctors come together and can make their proposals, and then someone else, whether the council, the board or the ministry, will make some completely different decisions. We can see that this could be the place where there would be a deliberate consensus among specialists, what new procedures, medical devices or whatever could be added to our lists. We would rather see that the basic weight of these decisions could be there. As has been said, we are ready to clarify this in the course of the procedure so that it is clear to the end. We do not want to make chat rooms, but really important working bodies that would give substantial input to the members of the board of the Health Insurance Fund, to the board of directors and also to the ministry. The third question concerns why this model has been chosen. That's what I've already told you about how many members of the Council are. The last question is that in 2011 the law was amended and since then the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund and the Unemployment Insurance Fund are kept with the Treasury. In recent years, there has been a situation in which the reserves of these organisations are used to cover the running costs of the State because the State does not have sufficient resources available. Both the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice have pointed to this problem. Question: 'How do you plan to ensure compliance with the law and the integrity of the Health Insurance Fund's reserves, and why has the matter not been discussed at the board level of the Health Insurance Fund? ' We agree with the Chancellor of Justice and the National Audit Office that the use of the funds of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, including reserves, to cover the running costs of the state must be strictly legitimate. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act allows the property of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund to be kept in a bank account forming part of the state's group account and, for the funds held, interest is also paid to the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. The assets of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund were decided to be incorporated into the national group account in 2011. One of the objectives of the amendment was to increase the liquidity needed to manage the total government cash flow and to improve the management of the cash flow by pooling financial reserves. This change lost the Estonian Health Insurance Fund's need to find ways of depositing financial reserves and also lost the settlement costs on transactions. It's been the will of the legislator, whatever it's worth. I didn't think it was the most reasonable way to do it then, but that's how it was decided. What is important is that the Health Insurance Fund can at any time use all its resources if necessary. This has been the case so far, and it will continue to be. In 2017, § 67 (2) of the State Budget Act was supplemented, which allows the Ministry of Finance to use the funds deposited by legal persons, but the Ministry of Finance must at any time allow those persons to make payments on their own funds. The Chancellor of Justice has found that this is not enough. As a result, the Ministry of Finance has proposed to the Ministry of Social Affairs to correct the Estonian Health Insurance Fund law so that it is allowed and clearly and unambiguously stipulated in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U13	Questions for the Minister. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your answers. My question concerns this seventh member of the Council. As you said, good practice also provides for the involvement of a representative of the opposition, and you have previously proposed that this place be given to the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. So far, however, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee and, in addition, the representative on the opposition side have been involved in the Council. The position of the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control regarding health issues may not necessarily be the case for members of the opposition of the Social Committee. Why has it been decided that it should be the chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U15	Thank you. The first is the substantive justification that follows from this model, which I was talking about, that we want to keep things separate in the future and build up on the side of the Board of Management of the Health Insurance Fund in two stages, so that the Council deals primarily with the strategic management of the so-called financial institution. In this context, financial competence and state budget control issues are more relevant than health content expertise. That's one. Another reason is much more rosy or prosaic or whatever: since the Government of the Republic thought that the proposal made by the Ministry of Social Affairs could be supplemented and a member of the opposition could be part of that council, we wondered how to write it into the law. Namely, today's Health Insurance Act says that the Council includes the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, who belongs to it after the post, and then says that, on the proposal of the Social Affairs Committee, the Riigikogu appoints another member of the Social Affairs Committee. As we know, the coalition and the opposition are not the terms of the law, so that, when the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee is no longer in office, the appointment of a representative of the Social Affairs Committee may lead to the appointment of a representative of the so-called coalition instead. Then we would be in a situation where the government in general, together with the government coalition, would have three members on the Council. This would have violated parity, which is why we tried to write ex officio a member of the opposition into the law. Good practice of the Riigikogu, which has been a longer-term practice than, for example, for Vice-Chairpersons of the Commission... Well, it hasn't been a longer-term practice, I'll start the sentence again. If, as we know, the Vice-Chairs and Chairs of the Commission may, as a result of certain changes, for example, in the coalition at once or in the opposition at once, this has happened, in general, in the case of the Chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control, it has been good practice so far that this place could always belong to the opposition. As has been said, I am open to proposals on this point. The government thought that there could be a representative of the opposition, and I have no doubt against it. I think that's a good idea. I did not propose this at first because I did not violate the parity of social partnership, i.e. that we would have option 2: 2: 2. But we have discussed this 3: 2 : 2 with the social partners, and provided that this one member is the representative of the opposition, this option has been taken sympatheticly. However, it makes perfect sense to have a discussion at the level of the Riigikogu on who and how exactly will be elected to this council, I think, because at the end of the day, the government does not determine who represents the Riigikogu from the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U16	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U17	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I would be happy to clarify, or I would ask you to clarify, the answer to the fourth question. If I understand you correctly, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs are preparing for a change of law. What is the pace of progress on this issue? Is this coming before us in the near future? Will it come before the composition of this Riigikogu? Will it be here before all this with the Health Insurance Board is done or when?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U18	Thank you. I have to apologize. I am not familiar with the details of the current state of the procedure for this amendment. But I expect this change to be dealt with in the near future. If not with another draft, I think that, together with these same changes in the Council, it could be done, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U19	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Your answers sounded like this medical competence, or health professionals, would be involved not in the Health Insurance Board itself, but in the committees that were to be set up. I didn't quite get it. I don't think you have made it clear which committees are going to be set up and with which specifics they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U21	Thank you. We're still negotiating this with our partners. I met a doctor's union last week, if memory doesn't fool me. It is true that with several representative health organisations we have certain differences here, and we admitted that this is entirely legitimate. They prefer the social parliament model. We have explained how we believe that this system should be a two-step system, because we think it is more sensible. We left as friends, we met as friends, but we admitted that there were different visions in this matter. It is not surprising in itself. You can do it this way, you can do it the other way around. The exact same thing concerns what there has been quite an active debate about why a representative of the Confederation of Trade Unions and the Chamber of People with Disabilities has been proposed as members, why there is no children's protection union or any other organisation. In the same way: it's completely legitimate. I have no question if one or the other organisation is to be involved, good people all. But we have seen that substantive competences, both in terms of health care and the specifics of specific target groups, could be represented through committees. In answer to the question, I would say that the most important decision made by the Health Insurance Fund every year, the decision on the list of health services in the TTL, could certainly be one of the documents on which the Commission, together with the Bureau, proposes to the Council and then moves to be confirmed by the executive. The second decision concerns medical devices. Medical devices are another matter on which the Health Insurance Board is now deciding. I am really talking about these things that are still in the debate phase, and we do not know where we will end up with these debates. We have thought that medical devices and preferential medicines could be part of another committee together, here there is a similar logic of procurement, 'buying out' and 'listing out'. The Committee on Medicinal Products is working, but since we wish, in parallel, as Monika Haukanõm also pointed out, to transfer matters relating to the procedure of preferential medicines from the Ministry to the Health Insurance Fund, it is appropriate to combine medical devices and preferential medicines into one group. We have also foreseen a third committee. I can't remember from my head what it was called in our work version, I can't find it now, but it would be the Commission that would take a longer look at the preparation and planning of health management changes. In other words, if the list of health services, preferential medicines and medical devices are dealing with what can be bought next year and at what price, then there could also be a Commission that would assess in future, for example, on the basis of the effectiveness of vaccines, which vaccines could be used for public funding and which would not, which target groups should receive vaccination and how to extend screening to one or another target group, for example, to all these types of subjects. It's the present sense. But we certainly don't want to limit it either, so, I don't know, there's gonna be three or so on. The Council would certainly have the right to create more of them in the future. But the minimum is these most important, basic: a list of health services and medical devices with medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U22	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U23	Thank you. Good minister! As you can hear and see, the Health Insurance Fund is becoming more than it was originally planned. It is no longer an insurance place or a health insurance centre, but a large number of activities and tasks are being piled up to shape health policy. Don't you see a big contradiction? Doesn't putting policy-making and implementation together cause much confusion in healthcare?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U24	Thank you. We have, however, I dare say, in the last two years and a few months, when I have been in this position, tried to clean up this picture and do it both ways. Firstly, we want to bring health policy decisions to the Ministry, from which they were delegated over a long period of time to the Health Insurance Fund, for example as regards the geographical availability of medical care. After all, it is a regional policy decision whether we are living here or there, which services we offer there, etc. These decisions were essentially delegated to the board of the Health Insurance Fund. They said what doctors they could work in. We are working to bring this decision back to the Ministry, because it is a health policy decision that can be applied, how big the contracts are, how many patients there are, what the infrastructure must be, etc. On the other hand, we are trying to make implementing health decisions, many of which were still made in the Ministry, where they should also be implemented. We are also taking certain steps in this context with this package of amendments, which is currently under way. We want the Ministry to have a policy framework and the Health Insurance Fund or, in certain cases, its implementation at the level of the Health Board. For example, what are we considering right now? The normal length of the order of treatment is currently established by the Health Insurance Board. This means a political decision, a health policy decision, a social agreement on queues. But that's the decision of whoever's funding it. To lower this standard, you need extra money. If money is scarce, you need to think about how to manage it more effectively in order to meet the norm, or you can simply change the norm. This was what the Council did successfully during the economic crisis, perhaps simply extending the queues and saying that it was okay, the norm has been met. This is the type of decision that really needs to be taken in a health policy. The second decision, which is clearly operational, not political, but what is currently being taken in the Ministry, is a decision on preferential medicines. Professionals negotiate on preferential medicines with pharmaceutical manufacturers. The Committee for Medicinal Products shall assess the financial effectiveness of this medicinal product or its cost and whether the price is acceptable and shall assess its medical basis of evidence as to whether it is effective, and agree on the rules for its prescription, the patients to which it is prescribed. Then the whole thing will be sent to the Minister of Health and Labour for signature. I'm signing over a hundred of these decisions in the quarter. I'm quite frankly saying, I don't understand it and I don't have to understand it. This is not a political decision. Which medicines should be prescribed to patients and whether or not the price is adequate compared to the effectiveness of the medicine is an implementing decision for healthcare. This decision should be signed by those who know its contents and can take responsibility for it. That's why we want to give the list of preferential medicines to the Health Insurance Fund to decide where this competence exists. Now the issue of insurance or general healthcare financing. First of all, one concession. Yes, the sickness insurance fund is a joint and several state compulsory insurance scheme. Yes, it is. But we know that as a classic insurance, it only works for people who work and pay monthly taxes on their salary, 13% of which goes to the health insurance fund. There are about half of the insured persons who do so at the health insurance fund. The rest are people for whom social tax is paid by the state, for example, the unemployment fund pays for the unemployed, or are persons treated as insured persons, such as pensioners. In that case, yes, we have said in law that they are also insured because it is the insurance that applies to them, but in fact we know that about 600000 people pay for the treatment of 10,000 people, i.e. for their own treatment and also for the treatment of the rest of the population. This is what you could have in mind when you talk about 'philosophical debates'. Now the other side. It is clear that health insurance contributions are collected in order to enable the health insurance fund to carry out the tasks assigned to it by law, i.e. to provide health services to those entitled to do so. We're gonna put him on more errands: the ambulance is the most important piece here, and there are a few more things. But we must bear in mind that we are not doing this at the expense of the same health insurance money, but we are actually paying for these services further by extending the income base of the Health Insurance Fund by means of a state budget allocation. The state budget allocation moves to the sickness fund to cover these additional costs. In addition, we are expanding the revenue base with a so-called margin to solve this social problem, which is long waiting lists. It has been pointed out that, at some point in time, this provision, which has been agreed and has been estimated to be 13% of the old-age pension for non-working pensioners since 2022, will no longer cover the financing of the additional tasks imposed on the health insurance fund. We have assessed these risks and we do not see that danger. The ambulance, which is the biggest piece here, is the best-controlled cost because it is being tendered out and the money is known several years in advance. The only variable cost is the wages of health professionals, and this change in the income base actually takes into account. The other costs there are rather lower. Well, speaking of the black scenario, if we start financing HIV medicines from the Health Insurance Fund, and if we say, in ten years from now, there are 50,000 HIV positives instead of 10,000 HIV positive, then this 'today' budget will not cover this drug expenditure. But first, we are working to ensure that this does not happen, and second, if there were 50,000 HIV positive people in Estonia, we would have a much greater concern than if the Health Insurance Fund could cover the costs of HIV medicines from the available funds. So certain risks are understandable, but we've been working hard to ground them. Our forecasts say that these risks are unlikely to materialise. At the same time, reducing the fragmentation of services should also have a positive effect in order to create greater synergies. One of the problems that has been encountered in healthcare is that if the money is in different envelopes, there will also be arrangements in different envelopes and then it will be much harder to encourage cooperation at different levels. Ambulance, which is by its nature a universal service because it applies to both insured and uninsured persons, is, on the other hand, exceptional medicine. Emergency medical services are provided to both health-insured and uninsured persons in hospitals and there could certainly be greater synergies. So there will be a number of positive changes. Finally. There is no doubt that restructuring, especially in such a complex area as health care, with so many different actors in the area as health care, with such wise and knowledgeable people as health care, will certainly create a very lively discussion. We have said that we will not make these changes in such a hurry; we have taken a very calm pace. For example, we have decided that in 2018 the ambulance will be funded by the Health Insurance Fund, but next year the organisation will remain the responsibility of the Health Board so that we can negotiate calmly over the course of the year how these things should be, so that all possible fears can be mitigated, which people can understand as a result of these changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U25	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U26	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! How brave and how aware is the Council? How independent is the decision of the Council? For example, last week, the Auditor General pointed out that the funds of the Health Insurance Fund were not always used for the purpose, but also to cover other public expenditure. You have pointed out here that different sectoral policy committees are being carried out. However, these panels should not remain constantly debating, discussing and discussing, but the Council should be able to decide independently that stop, now we will make a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U27	Thank you. As I said, regarding my vision of what these committees should look like, we certainly do not want a chat room. We want a concrete input, a debate at expert level and, on this basis, real proposals to be included in the list of health services in what order. Every year, hundreds of proposals for a list of health services come from many professional contacts, professionals, etc., which could be funded. After all, medicine is evolving very quickly. At present, it is essentially assessed by the Governing Board. The Ministry of Social Affairs will give its expert opinion on whether or not one thing is a priority, but essentially the board will evaluate and then tell the Council that this is our proposal. Basically, yes, one or another particular line is sometimes discussed in the Council, but it is not systemic. The Council does not go over this list of health services, for which there is no competence. That is why, as Chairman of the Council, it would be essential for me to actually have a panel of specialists providing advice to the Council and to actually do this job. It's not an easy job. We also talked to the Medical Association about this being a relatively labour-intensive task. But we can see that this could be the content of this work. You were referring to money. Already now, the Health Insurance Act says that I am trying to find this point right here, that the role of the Council is, in fact, already limited by law. Paragraph 12 (1) (3) of the Health Insurance Fund Act states that the Supervisory Board is competent to approve the budget of the Health Insurance Fund on a proposal from the Management Board, based on the state budget. This is what the process of approving the Health Insurance Fund budget looks like. In August, the Health Insurance Board will propose to the government its budgetary position for the following financial year. The Minister of Health will take this proposal to the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic will propose this to the Riigikogu, whether it is the proposal made by the Health Insurance Fund or the Health Insurance Board, or what it itself politically agrees. In the context of the adoption of the state budget of the Riigikogu, the budget position of the sickness fund will be decided for the next four years and the board and council will have to rely on it in making their own budget. Within these limits, the Council, of course, makes decisions and has always made them. The Health Insurance Fund has been well managed in this sense, all the necessary decisions have been made and the provision of health services has worked as well as we have been able to organise it. However, since this insurance takes place in a very significant amount of money for the state, as a legal person governed by public law, the budgetary restriction is, in fact, already prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your answers, you indicated that you wanted to monitor, in part or in full, the proportionality of the new model of the Council, as is the case with the unemployment fund in the Council. You also referred to the need to implement strategic decisions. If you are now referred to, it can be said that employers and trade unions have referred to the fact that they do not want the country to run over them. If a country should implement its strategic decisions and is outnumbered, how will it implement these decisions in real life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U30	Thank you. That is the social partnership, I very much believe in it. In my opinion, for example, it works perfectly in the Council of the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Despite the fact that the country is also outnumbered there, we have managed to agree, find a common vision and move forward in a good partnership with the five people who are not there for me. I think it is also possible to make strategic decisions in this type of community where mutual trust exists. In addition, the Health Insurance Fund Act (which does not exist at the unemployment fund) also provides certain guarantees for the protection of the interests of the State, given precisely that the financial impact is so great. For example, certain decisions cannot be taken by the supervisory board without the consent of the chairman of the supervisory board. But it's a rather extreme method. I am saying that I believe that in such a good social partnership we will be able to manage it perfectly together without the state having to vote with so-called force. In the Unemployment Insurance Board, we hardly ever vote anything, and yet we have reached agreement on all the important things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U31	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U32	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The reality is that the need for money from the health insurance fund is greater than the opportunities, and that remains so. Miracles don't happen here, I guess. Recently, it has been sounding louder and louder that the disease of cancer in Estonia is growing. The ability to diagnose is likely to increase as well. How does the current governance principles of the Health Insurance Board ensure that this health insurance or the health insurance fund's money is used most effectively to treat cancer and that people are most delighted? That is a slightly more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U33	Thank you. The number of cancer diagnosiss is growing not only in Estonia but throughout the world, and this is linked to the great fact that people live longer. The budgets for cancer treatment have also increased in Estonia. I dare not say now that they have grown at the fastest rate, but it has certainly been one of the fastest-growing budgets within the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, both in terms of procedures and medicines. Of course, the sickness fund has to look at the whole thing here. That is why I believe that the role of the same committees is also important, where professionals from different sectors can argue between themselves what is the most important priority next year or next years, which new treatments and medicines will be funded. I think that we have so far managed to make very effective and rational use of the little funding that Estonian health care has had in this context. Patients don't always appreciate it. But actually, for as little money as they have paid, getting such a world-class health care service is beautifully extraordinary. In Estonia, medical services are basically world-class. There are certainly problems with availability and, of course, we will not be able to list all the newest medicines in the world, not only cancer medicines, but all of them, right next year after they enter the market. This cannot be done by countries far more prosperous than us. In general, new treatments and new medications are constantly introduced every year, both in cancer treatment and in other diseases, so that quality improves all the time in this respect. One more thought I can give you in answer. We have spoken with the social partners that we would like to implement more strategic governance at Council level, for example, on quality. Certain initiatives have already been taken to measure the quality of treatment for certain diagnoses, for example, in different health institutions, and to compare it internationally. But we should have such a current framework so that we can not only look at how much money we can get served and how many procedures we have done, but also how much we can actually give people additional years of life as a result. We have not been too good at this so far, but it is certainly one of the topics that the new chairman of the board of the Health Insurance Fund will also take to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U34	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You also justify the need to amend the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act by raising the level of skills and knowledge. That's what I didn't understand. Even now, the law would allow these committees to be set up. It is clear that the members of the Council cannot have specific knowledge. Why, then, has this possibility already existed not been used? Where do you think this lack of knowledge and skills has been the most screaming so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U36	In that, you are right that the law allows them to be formed today. But it seems to me that this has not been done precisely because I am not claiming the final truth here, because there are already quite a lot of expertise in the Council. We have a representative of the Hospitals Association who explains the view of hospitals, we have a radiologist there who can talk about a part of health care, the Child Welfare Association has usually sent its representative from among the doctors. Looks like there's more or less a feeling. Therefore, it may not have been seen that there is a need for a Commission of some kind involving all parties, because it is as if it can be done. But I say I can't handle that kind of input. I do not think it is enough, and it often tends to become such that we in the Council finally decide whether it seems credible or not. But that's not a very good way to decide. Let me give you a few concrete examples from last year. The Board of the Health Insurance Fund proposed that the child's guardian's bed day be separated from the children's bed day at a lower price. The representative of the Alliance for Child Protection said that this must not be done under any circumstances, it would be a very wrong decision, because the guardian of the child who is in hospital at the same time as the child has not only bed days, in the sense that he not only sleeps there and can eat, but also requires certain psychological advice from the parent, etc. Everything seems credible, can't argue with anything. The other said, however, that the services that are spoken of are not actually provided in this way. I have to say that most of the Council looked and shook shoulders that they did not know. We don't really know how it is. Finally, we made a decision between the two: a separate day was made, but the price was not reduced as much as it would have been intended to. This was the kind of social agreement, we agreed not to do that, so let's make an interim. But whether it was true one way or the other to the end, this conviction in the Council, I dare say, did not arise. We would like professionals to really be together in a broad sense and not only appreciate what is done in an ideal world, because there is always a great deal of it, but also think about whether it is wise to do so or not now by choosing alternatives. I think it could create a balance there. You had another part of the question, but I've forgotten about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U37	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U38	Thank you, Minister. At the beginning, you said that such a governance structure was reasonable in its time. This statement surprises me because this 15-member assembly was full of indecision, in particular conflicts of interest. That is also what you have admitted in support of this draft. In my opinion, society has become more attentive here, such things are better avoided. It was certainly easier to make corrupt decisions at the time. Today, people are shutting down for the things that the management structure of the sickness fund has actually offered constantly. What do you mean, once it was like it was reasonable? Did you really mean it, or are you trying to make such a gentle transition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U39	Thank you. Honourable questioner, you are certainly much more experienced than I am in the process of establishing this Council. Consequently, I cannot add anything to your comment. I assume that at the time this Council was created on the basis of such a model, it was considered reasonable. Otherwise it wouldn't have been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U40	Thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U41	Mr President! Good minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! To begin with, I would like to congratulate the Government of the Republic. For what? For the fact that, at the last minute, however, you decided to delete the points concerning the amendment of the Health Insurance Fund Act in Bill No 512 of the Health Insurance Fund Council. I'll do it from the heart. Why do I congratulate you on that? Because if this had not been done, there would probably have been a lot of public debates about how one draft, which is important and affects so many people, was developed in such a way, hastily, has been sent to the coordination circle in the middle of the summer, when most interest groups and interested parties are resting and there is no chance of obtaining a position at all, and, after the round of coordination, some of the social partners were forgotten to get an opinion at all. There would also be major problems, and this was due to the fact that the draft has not been drawn up either, which should be in line with good legislative practice. It was the commendation part. Now to the essence. In your reply, you said that the model of the social parliament is intended to move to the social partnership model. I understand your practical concern about the quorum and about decisions and their adoption. At the same time, if they just say we're taking over the same model, two: two: two, and we add it to one category, and it's like a solution, it seems too easy. Then you might ask exactly why seven, but why not nine, which would at least ensure that the proportions that we have already had are maintained. The decision-making process is certainly not being taken in the way it is being desired. It is also understandable that in this case changes will have to be made. But at the moment, the impression is that, as decisions stretch and do not go in the way necessary for the ministry or the health insurance fund, there is one way to say that we cannot decide because we do not have the knowledge, the whole is too big and we need a smaller one. Perhaps it gives the impression that the Council must be reduced in order for things to move in a more appropriate direction and at a more appropriate speed. When we talk about the need for greater competence in the Health Insurance Board, this change does not guarantee this. The Minister also pointed out that the decisions of the Health Insurance Board must be strategic in the future and focus on financial decisions. Because over time, strategic decisions have shifted to where they are not supposed to be. But then we could go further. If we want these decisions to be important and strategic in health policy, then perhaps the management of the Health Insurance Fund's board should give the position of head to, for example, medical specialists at the University of Tartu, so that these decisions are even more correct, not that there is an advantage over politicians. The second issue, which was repeatedly addressed here, was the 'committees'. What is most concerned about is that neither the draft nor the explanatory memorandum make it clear in detail how these committees will be set up and what their influence or so-called decision-making powers will be and how their decisions will still be put on the Council's desk in such a way that they will change something. It is unclear why it is the representatives of the insured and employers who are most wanted to be excluded from the social partners, thereby making the Health Insurance Fund council undemocratic. Finally, there are three other points. According to current plans, patients' and employers' participation will be reduced the most. We would need a more broad-based Council, given which new services will come under the responsibility of the Health Insurance Fund. Thirdly, it seems that the Ministry simply needs to make the Council more comfortable for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U42	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. Is there something the Minister would like to say? I guess I don't. The item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-13_U43	Free mike. It's over. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 4.05 p.m.
