ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U1	Good morning, Reverend Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 8th working week of the VI plenary session. Date of delivery of the preliminary claim and enquiries. Please, Ants Laaneots!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Reform Party, together with the EKRE, has a joint question to the Prime Minister about defence investments. Last Wednesday, the newspaper Eesti Päevaleht published an article entitled 'IRL rejected 10 million euros in defence investments for the new year'. It also contained the words of the Minister of Defence. Although the Minister of Defence promised that this expenditure would be made later, he did not refute the fact that the defence budget for next year would be reduced by EUR 10 million. It will be cut by the government in a situation where the security situation in our region has deteriorated sharply. Russia continues the war in Ukraine; it created a new, 1st Guard Panzer Army in the Western military district adjacent to Estonia, and in this area it was not until last September that the 'Zapad 2017' strategic exercise was organised, which was directed against the Baltic States. The Minister of Defence gave reasons...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U3	The Minister of Defence justified the cut with the heavy burden of the Western military industry, which did not allow for the rapid provision of the necessary armaments and equipment for the Defence Forces. But why didn't he say anything about the fact that the same amount of 10 million could be allocated to other articles, such as the construction of the necessary infrastructure for the 2nd Brigade of the Defence Forces in South Estonia, or that it could be added to the purchase of self-propelled artillery that would enable the artillery unit to be fully equipped with weapons. The old truth is, whoever doesn't feed his army will soon feed a stranger. With regard to the defence budget cut, we ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions:
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U4	I'm sorry, dear waitress. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Ei kuule!'???]] Ladies and gentlemen, In a transferred sense, and frankly, when the General speaks, you don't have to be quiet, but you could be. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U5	Questions come when the answer comes. I gave you much more time than was meant to. Now I'm gonna thank you and I'm gonna take this...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U6	There's four of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U7	There's four of them, all right! Mikhail Stalnukhin, please! Probably a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U8	Yeah, of course, it's about our regulation. When the General speaks, all colleagues are no longer equal, we must listen to him. It's strange for me to hear it as a sergeant. Is it the other way around that when the sergeant talks, the general has to listen? Or maybe we already have a rating here, don't we? [[The excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U9	The form of the question was certainly more successful than the content. If you'd listened exactly, you'd know I told you to listen, not listen. I have adopted one inquiry and we will process it in the Riigikogu's Management Board in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 81 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U10	Today's first item is the proposal by the Chancellor of Justice to bring the Social Welfare Act § 47 (3) into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. First, we will listen to the Chancellor of Justice's report, which will last up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers. Peter Ernits, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will then present his presentation for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers. As the third rapporteur, the chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Helmen Kütt, who has up to 20 minutes to present his presentation, will be asked questions and answers. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. To make such a comment, if you do not, for example, ask a question to another rapporteur, you will not be able to ask two questions to the third rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened, during which members of the Riigikogu may speak as well as representatives of committees and political groups. After the negotiations have been concluded, I shall put to the vote the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. A majority of votes in favour are required for the adoption of the proposal. I now ask for a presentation by the Chancellor of Justice of the Riigikogu Chair, Ülle Madise. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would ask you to bring Article 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution in so far as it does not allow a resident of a general care home to receive state support for the purchase of the aid necessary for him or her. This is not about hearing aids or prostheses, for example, but about taxis, Daisy-pleiers, cushions designed to prevent beds, etc. The problem is more specifically with § 12 of the Constitution, which speaks of the requirement for equal treatment, and § 28 (4) according to which persons with disabilities should be under the special care of the state and the municipality. The problem is that if a person in need of help lives in his/her own home and covers the costs of living at home...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U12	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! We're listening to the report now, and then we're listening to the second and third reports. The aim is to reach a decision on whether we are willing and willing to make improvements to a certain plot in order to bring it into line with the Constitution. Please listen carefully! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U13	Honourable Riigikogu! The problem is that if a person in need of assistance is living in his own home and covers the expenses necessary to live at home, or with the help of someone close to him or her, he or she will receive, for example, if he or she is blind with the help of the Daisy-Pleier state. However, if he has gone to the general care centre and the place fee covers the costs of living there, he does not receive such help. There is no reasonable reason to treat people in a general care home worse. A blind person who lives at home can purchase this Daisy player for 45 euros if he or she lives in a general care home, but he or she will have to pay 450 euros. For example, a seat cushion designed to prevent beds must be paid 35 euros when living at home, while 350 euros when living in a general care home. For those people who need help, it is, as a general rule, a very large amount of money. It has been argued that in a nursing home, all such aids should be available, such as wheelchairs, taxiers, Daisy-pleiers, cushions, etc. However, this is not factually the case and cannot be the case, since general care homes are mostly governed by private law and are managed by place fees. If someone were to make it a prerequisite for a general care home to have wheelchairs, taxis, Daisy players, even if no one needs them, this requirement would probably be excessive and would also be reflected in the cost of the place. So even if one of the laws or regulations provides that the general care home must have all these resources in place and should be provided free of charge to its customers, it does not exist "free of charge." These homes are private and still have to be paid either by all residents in solidarity, regardless of whether they themselves need these aids or by those who need it. Consequently, even such a change would result in the inhabitants of the general care home being treated significantly less favourably than those in need of the same kind at home. As usual, we asked whether it was possible to make this change legally and economically. The answer is yes. Legally, it is very simple: one word must be deleted under this Social Welfare Act if the Riigikogu so decides. As far as additional financial costs are concerned, I assume that they are not as high as you can imagine, because the state is not actually able to just be able to check whether a person is living in a nursing home or not. So, in principle, if a person provides false information in order to receive state support for the acquisition of an aid instrument, there are no really good control mechanisms. But what makes sense is that we do not direct people, and especially this vulnerable group, to act hypocritically and falsely. Secondly, it is likely to be possible to extend the amount of aid to be leased. There is certainly always a need to assess the real need for aid. So I believe this is a reasonable solution. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs for a very thorough and in-depth debate. Honourable Riigikogu, please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U14	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U15	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! It is, of course, very good that this issue has come to the table here, and you have drawn attention to it as Chancellor of Justice and even proposed to amend the law. My question is what conclusion can be drawn from this. Could such a situation have been avoided, and in what way could such situations be avoided in the future, so that administrative burdens are reduced and human resources and time are not later needed to resolve such inconsistencies? After all, this contradiction was evident even when this law was being dealt with here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U16	Thank you very much. I fear that in a human society, in a democratic rule of law, there will still be cases when either the Chancellor of Justice or the Court has to intervene, because a specific life has shown itself to be a bottleneck that needs to be resolved. But the general recipe here is that it is always worth looking at every new law, with the eyes of each of the recipients of the norm, the eyes of the person whose rights it restricts or to whom it, on the contrary, offers some benefits. If you look at it this way, these problems are mostly already revealed in the proceedings and can therefore be avoided later in the process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U17	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U18	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Chancellor! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also had a temporal dimension under discussion. I asked it there and I'm asking you here. This contradiction has been around 18 years, but it only came out now. Do you think such a thing is normal, and is it possible to prevent such things?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U19	I don't think it's normal. I'm really sorry it's happened this way. I see my department's guilt here. I hope this will work out now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U20	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U21	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, it's been like this for 17 years. We have also constantly heard from other experts here that our legislation is, as it is, no plans to develop, etc. What is your assessment of how many more things may exist that have persisted for years because of the injustice that has arisen because it has not been thoroughly analysed what some sort of snail of the law brings with it, but for some reason this contradiction has not come out before?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U22	Thank you! Of course, it would be hoped that there will be no more such situations, but I fear that this is an empty hope. However, we are doing everything we can to find out as soon as possible and to correct these errors where possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U23	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Would you clarify what the basic argument of the current law is that the situation is exactly as you described it? Could the legislator have felt that, objectively, the costs of some people were higher or lower, on the basis of which it was then considered appropriate to make such a distinction (without making an assessment that we would, as if, approve it)?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U25	Thank you! We were, of course, familiar with the draft explanatory memorandum and procedural material when preparing this proposal, and during the in-depth discussions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in the Committee on Social Affairs, it was possible to hear the views and arguments of the representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. I myself suppose that the real answer is somewhat different from what the representatives of the ministry have said. The explanatory notes are not very comprehensive either. I think the answer is that this is an issue that is not very much wanted to be dealt with. Only in recent years has there been more talk about this in the Estonian public. Secondly, I think it's the way it's gonna be. In the meantime, general care centres have changed their legal form, now they are private, they have to manage themselves from place fees. In some of them there are few people, in others very many. Some people, who may not need a Daisy player or the same bedside cushion, are simply people who, for example, for the winter months, have to leave their own living because they cannot keep heating and roads open. In short, there has been an amendment and I do not think that the law has been amended in sync with this amendment. The reason has been that such regulation promotes living at home. Well, the reason was taken back by a representative of the Ministry himself. That a person would like to leave his home, his relatives, often in much worse circumstances, I have not yet heard. There may be isolated cases, but these are more cases than the person who goes to a nursing home is more or less well off and is able to pay the place fee in a general care home such as that of an elderly house in many countries. There are also some such homes in Estonia, there is nothing strange about it. But the general care home that we're talking about today hasn't been seen to be generally strong. So I think it's more like this, nobody's brought it up, and many people are assuming that there's probably something going to happen, and there's probably something going to be in that nursing home, which is not, but maybe it should and maybe there's something going to be. I really hope this thing works out now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U26	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U27	Thank you. Madam Chancellor! Urmas Kruuse asked my question in some ways, but maybe then you will answer me two things and the other half of the Urmas question. First of all, I remember that the financial costs you estimate do not have to be very high, because there are, as if there are ways to circumvent, false statements. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U28	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U29	Now question two. Why has it been like this? I have guessed so far, but I am not a member of this committee and I can be unconscious of these policies, whether it is not because of a set of social measures or a set of costs that are different for customers in different situations, depending on whether they live in a nursing home or at home. Perhaps the costs have been assessed as different and maybe there are subsidies? Have you looked at whether this subsidy, which will be granted to one or the other, is not one of the reasons? Have you had the authority to analyze it? I don't know the answer. That is the question: have you been able to analyze it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U30	Thank you very much, very good question. Yeah, we did. The point is that there are no subsidies of this kind in general. The general care centre must manage itself and if there is a resident who needs a Daisy player because he is blind, then there are essentially two possibilities. We either take the view that the general care centre must acquire it from its "over-the-counter" accounts, although I say once again that these own funds do not exist in this sense, these funds come together from the place fees and in that case they are reflected in the place fee for all customers, and then there is another option that is currently being used to collect this money from the person himself. Of course, we analysed whether buying these aids at the general care centre could be more advantageous due to the scale effect. This may be the case in some cases, but it is still much more expensive for those in need than if they lived at home. We analysed whether and to what extent instruments could be used together. There are certainly some, but for example, the view that if there is one taxier on a number of people, it would be compatible with human dignity and the international obligations and constitutional requirements of Estonia; we did not make it in any way. In fact, if a person needs a taxi, he needs a taxi, and he must not have to wait until it is released from another client, for example, to go to the bathroom. So, in short, yes, we analyzed these questions. It is likely that there are no reasons behind the regulation of this law that would justify it in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U31	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U32	Thank you. Your Honor, Chancellor! My question is perhaps not of practical value at all, but of a bit of legal-theoretic. How does this fit in with property rights? If the state supports somebody in buying something, then it's legal that this thing is still going to the buyer's property and he can also pass it on, it's going to his heirs, and so on. Is this right from the point of view of the moral issues of our social assistance? Moral would perhaps be that this would go forward in a targeted way, if there were any other useable value. But the general problem, the standard problem is certainly much wider than just this particular case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U33	Thank you! A very precise question, that is indeed what we raised in the committees. Yes, if it is envisaged to buy a tool with state support, it is possible to receive 90% of the state support, this will go to the property of the person in need and, after he leaves, it will indeed pass on to the heirs. The second scheme is the rental of a tool. This is also possible, and in this case, if the need for aid is lost, the rented property must be returned and, if the property is still eligible, it will simply be used by the next person. This was one of our assumptions that there are a number of tools for which the rental could be used much more widely and thus save costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U34	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U35	Thank you. Madam Chancellor. It is clear that the living conditions of clients and the level and quality of nursing homes in Estonia are very different. But it is generally the case that neither people can afford to pay for their living there and have to pay for more. Do you not see here a contradiction with the Constitution that a person cannot be in a nursing home because his financial situation does not allow it? In some places the parish supports who how. However, have you even analysed this problem more broadly in this respect? Is there perhaps a need for more state support and more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U36	Thank you very much. That's a very good question again. Indeed, we have seen it this way, and we are starting a new year to assess the level of access to social services in all local governments, including the same general care home services and helping people. I believe that one part of the precise answers to your question will come after this work. But ideally, things should really be arranged so that the person who needs help gets the help. If he can be assisted in living at home, he will be assisted at home, help him to get the food and oven he needs, maybe help to clean up or what work he needs to do there. If a person can no longer live at home, he or she must be able to go to a general nursing home. The conditions there must, of course, be in accordance with the Constitution, which means that this person must also be able to feel as a human being when living there; he should not lose human dignity. If the person's own pension is not enough, of course, we are familiar with the place fees, even in poorer nursing homes, the place fee is usually much higher than the person's pension, and if he or she does not have any family members who can support him or her, then the municipality must come to the aid. Whether it's always like this, you gotta check it out. Of course, the broader issue of family law is what we like or dislike fair maintenance obligations in a society that has changed in the past. But there is a great deal of work here, the Riigikogu, in your hands too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U37	Honorable Chancellor of Justice! No further questions for you. Thank you for your presentation, but your entire team for setting up the subject. I now invite Mr Ernitsa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U38	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Chancellor! This bill, which we are talking about now, is actually very simple: a blind man opened our eyes to the injustice that has been going on for over 16 years, this man turned to the Chancellor of Justice, and now we are here. But I will describe what happened in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On Monday, 23 October, we discussed the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Marko Pomerants, chairman of the committee, and members of the committee, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Tiit Terik and Peeter Ernits, were absent from Jüri Adams. Olari Koppel, Deputy Chancellor of Justice, and Kärt Muller, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice, and Raimo Saadi, Adviser to the Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, were also present. I'm not going to talk here for a long time because the Chancellor of Justice was quite clear. The proposal is to bring § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution. Olari Koppel introduced this and explained that the main constitutional problem of this provision is that people in need of help who live in nursing homes are treated worse than those living in their own homes. It was already said here that it is not normal for you to pay ten times less for the same tool when you live at home (slurry-preventing pillows, various blind reading devices, etc., up to diapers). Olari Koppel told me how this thing was starting to work. Social Affairs Committee, 9 June s. a the letter states that the State can save money in this way. Saving money is questionable, noted Olari Koppel, and it is actually at the expense of the dignity of the person who needs help. For example, it is not humane for a person to have to wait until a taxi that facilitates walking is released from the use of another customer and is delivered to him by a welfare worker. Olari Koppel pointed out other things. In addition, such a course of action forces people to manipulate the law. For example, a person can stop his or her living in a nursing home, go home to live and acquire an aid subject to favourable conditions. This is what Mr Jürgen Ligi referred to. Olari Koppel said that as regards the second objective of the provision, which aims to motivate people to live at home instead of in nursing homes, a person usually goes to a nursing home in extreme circumstances, it should be clear to everyone, when he can no longer cope without outside help, with a large amount of outside help. So the cheaper tool is not the motivator that forces you to stay at home. Olari Koppel explained that the Chancellor of Justice takes the view that the constitutional reason for such a difference on the basis of residence is not discriminatory and § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act is contrary to the principle of equal treatment. The proposal is to remove the word 'in a welfare institution' from § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act. As a note, this point also talks about prisons and they remain there, as I understood from the point of view of the Chancellor of Justice. Mr Pomerants asked when this provision was in force. Raimo Saadi replied that this provision, which creates this distinction, had been in force since 2000 and in 2016, 16 years later, in the Social Welfare Act. What kind of regulation is that? This is Regulation No 79 of the former Minister for Social Affairs of 14 December 2000. The minister was our esteemed colleague, Eiki Nestor. Marko Pomerants asked if the Ministry of Social Affairs had any information on the financial savings it would have caused. Raimo Saadi replied that there was not, because there were no records, and it is not known exactly how much the changes in the provisions would have to do with the state budget. Allegedly, state money is being saved. I asked how much money the country has saved in 17 years, when this provision has been in force. Raimo Saadi replied that the Social Affairs Committee wrote a letter to the Chancellor of Justice on this issue in June this year. He said that the cost of the equipment, which is a natural part of the care service, should remain the responsibility of the care establishment and that the state's savings mainly concern public aids, such as bedpans, which people living at home receive separately from the state. As a general rule, there are more tools in the public domain in the care establishment, and they can be shared. Jaak Madison noted that he found it strange that the Ministry of Social Affairs had no record of the state's savings. Mr Pomerants said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should, however, focus on whether or not the provision is contrary to the Constitution. Olari Koppel then noted that the officials of the Chancellor of Justice's office have visited nursing homes and found that there are often insufficient resources available for general use in nursing homes. Mr Hallemaa felt that he felt that people in need of assistance had to be treated equally and that it was very bad that it had not been done. Olari Koppel replied that this problem arose with the same blind man who turned to the Chancellor of Justice 16 years later. Why hadn't anyone approached the Chancellor of Justice before, you don't know that. That's where it started. Jaak Madison asked if in more than 16 years it was the first person to address the Chancellor of Justice with such a problem. Olari Koppel's answer was that yes, this blind man was the first, before he was just suffering. Mr Madison also asked which Minister had been responsible for the development of the Social Welfare Act, which came into force in 2016, which perpetuated the regulation of the Minister for Social Affairs in 2000, and whether it was the usual attitude of the Ministry that costs would be saved at the expense of people treated differently from others. Raimo of Saadi's Ministry replied that the Social Welfare Act has been dealt with by a number of ministers, and lastly by the Minister for Social Protection. The first version of the draft Social Welfare Act was discussed here in 2014 and the full text was processed here in 2015. Then no one noticed that fact. Raimo Saadi noted that when it comes to the attitude of the Ministry of Social Affairs towards austerity, the Ministry does not think that people should suffer. It would be weird if he thought so. As the general welfare service is organised by the local government, it depends on the local government's wallet and the organisation of the local government. In the meantime, the list of aid instruments has increased a great deal, noted Saadi, and the state's ability to support the acquisition of aid instruments has also increased. Arto Aas asked whether this problem was very common or only in certain nursing homes. Kärt Muller replied that there are many nursing homes, but even very expensive Villa Benitas, for example, has to pay for certain tools. Arto Aas asked how many institutions there are in Estonia. Raimo Saadi replied that there were many general care institutions, special care institutions, substitute homes, etc., with 134 special care institutions alone. This circle of institutions is therefore very large. I mentioned that I was exposed to this problem when my mother was in a nursing home. I remember how her bedmate had trouble avoiding that bedside pillow, she went along with a lot of other people. Raimo Saadi replied that the special care service is a state service and the customer does not have to pay for diapers separately, but in general care homes, which are managed by the local government, it is decided whether the customer has to pay or not. Raimo Saadi noted that there is actually no overview of how much people who are in nursing homes themselves have had to pay for the diapers by which the state and municipalities have saved money for all of them for more than 16 years. Finally, the chairman of the committee, Marko Pomerants, defined that, indeed, § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act clearly contains an inconsistency of constitutionality. The question is, said Pomerants, how it will be resolved and constitutional regulation will be written down. Well, then there was a decision. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal (there was a consensus here) was supported and I was appointed rapporteur (there was also a consensus here). That concludes the debate on 23 October on this sad subject, about which the blind man had made us see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U39	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You stated in your report that everything in prisons will remain the way it is, and it was as if it were the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice. Could you explain for a moment what it means and why it is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U41	Good colleague! I can't explain why this is the case, but if you read Paragraph 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act, it says that I am not going to read the entire sentence in advance, so that persons who are in custody or in remand are not entitled to claim the obligation to pay the fee. The proposal of the Chancellor of Justice is to withdraw the word 'in the institution' from § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act. Consequently, if persons in captivity or in recapture need such equipment to avoid beds, pillows, diapers, etc., they must pay with full iron. But they can't live at home.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U42	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You dealt with the concept of public aids. Are there any lists of tools available to the public and individual? Is there any difference between them in legal terms, say, in price, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U44	Thank you. There are really very long lists, I'm not going to read them to you. There are a lot of things in flea writing that people may need, how they are financed and how much something costs, from diapers to readings and many other things, such as prosthetics, and what is your own contribution if you live at home, in a nursing home, in a prison or somewhere else. But there are, for example, individual prosthetics that cannot be passed on to anyone else, and on the other hand there are taxis that make it easier to move into the bathroom, or lying cushions, etc. Here are the differences. But this list is very long, in some cases it's taller, in other cases it's shorter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U45	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U46	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Here's the question. This whole debate today gives the impression that no one has known this problem before. However, we admit that many have been involved in this matter on several occasions. You said yourself that when you went to see your mother, her neighbor was in a situation like this. Each institution also has a manager. In the past, have the directors, seeing this whole situation, proposed to the Riigikogu, the Commission or anyone else to amend this law? They're supposed to know these laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U47	Thank you for your question. We did not talk about this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I am reading about the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice to the Riigikogu and I know from his team members' words at our committee meetings that indeed, so far has not been addressed. For more than 16 years, since 14 December 2000, when the Minister of Social Affairs came up with his now notorious decree No 79, and later, when we have dealt with the Social Welfare Act repeatedly in this Riigikogu, no one has noticed it. Of course, managers are present in all nursing homes, and I have also been talking to many of the managers of nursing homes. But that's a little different. They lay out their hands that the legislator has specifically created such a distinction. We actually have the key. But we've been blind until that blind man started opening our eyes. But it's a wider subject. At the moment, we only touch on one small point of the Social Welfare Act, I repeat, § 47 (3) - we only want to take one word out of it at the 'care institution'. I stress that the Chancellor of Justice's suggestion is only one word to be taken out. We are not currently dealing with the terrible situation that exists in Estonian nursing homes. This is a much wider and more important issue. Now we're talking about a word.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U48	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take note of your statement that this is a broader issue, and I will stretch it even further. As we know, our decadent and degenerate Western society as a whole is appallingly concerned about a subject such as human rights. We have also talked about human rights in this Chamber, though in a gender context, in the context of sexual minorities, in the context of ethnic minorities and in the context of racial minorities. But do you think that the human right to age with dignity, to die with dignity, even if you are demented, should not be more important than all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U50	Thank you for your question. In fact, the Chancellor of Justice and his office, as well as Olari Koppel in our committee, have spoken about this. It really hurts human dignity, even that little thing when you have to pee in rural language and you have trouble going to the bathroom, but you have to wait for a taxi, because maybe the other one has the same problem at the same time. Anyway, there's a normal thing in an incontinent nursing home, and it takes a lot of diapers. At the same time, the Chancellor of Justice's office has carried out inspections and has seen that diapers are also being saved and paid for. When you're in a nursing home, you pay ten times as much as when you're at home. So the question is right and, of course, I think it is fundamental.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U51	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. For the third presentation, please address the Chair of the Social Affairs Committee of Helmen Küti. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U52	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good fellows! On Thursday 26 October, the Social Affairs Committee discussed the address of the Chancellor of Justice. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise, Deputy Chancellor of Justice-adviser Olari Koppel, Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Kristi Ploom, Head of Welfare Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Häli Tarum and Advisor Raimo Saadi participated. Ülle Madise introduced the proposal resulting from the incompatibility of § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act with the Constitution. The problem is that a person living in a nursing home does not receive all the aids that a person in need of help can receive with the benefit of the state. On the basis of the ensuing debate, we had a very long round of questions and answers. Questions were asked about the list of tools and whether changes have taken place over time. There was also a question of funding for several nursing homes and of what is included in the tax. Raimo Saadi pointed out that if, for example, the Ministry has imposed very specific requirements and obligations on the nursing care provider, such as three wheelchairs per 20 beds, etc., there are no such requirements in the nursing home for the elderly. The place taxes on the elderly are very different across Estonia and the services received for this place tax are very different. Perhaps in some institutions you get diapers for a place payment, in some places you don't, because, as we know, according to family law, children and grandchildren have a duty to support their elderly family members. This means that if you are unable to do so at home, this obligation applies to paying for the place where the nursing home is located. In the case of uninhabited persons, this obligation is incumbent on the municipalities. However, very many municipalities across Estonia also pay the part that the municipality or city government has designated as the responsibility of children and support them in part. In this sense, the picture is very different in Estonia. However, we also focused on whether a bed in a nursing home, for example, is an aid. Clearly, even if there are no such conditions, it is not real to open a nursing home without a single bed, so there are only four walls. It is true that this was not discussed in the Commission, because it was not such a topical issue at that time for nursing homes and place taxes. When you listened yesterday to the debate about the increase in the place taxes on nursing homes at the beginning of the year, you know that it was found that there may be a normal bed in the nursing home, but if the person's health still deteriorates and he needs a very specific bed, then the person living in the nursing home should also have the opportunity to receive this specific bed as a means of helping him and paying for his own participation. At its second meeting on 6 November, the Committee on Social Affairs continued the debate. At that time, we had the participation of Deputy Secretary-General Rait Kuuse of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Raimo Saadi, adviser to the Social Welfare Department. There were a lot of questions about whether it was really not possible to apply when living in a nursing home and receive an individual aid if it is still necessary. Rait Kuuse said that § 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act makes it possible to apply for the payment of an individual allowance even if you live in a welfare institution. The current law makes it possible to compensate for the aid when a person needs it on similar grounds as for ordinary citizens who do not live in a nursing home, but it is still necessary to submit an application. In the Committee on Social Affairs, many questions were also asked about the cost to the state budget and what this entails. The response of the Social Ministry's officials was that it needed to be analyzed. They cannot claim that this cost is small, but nevertheless this mismatch still needs to be eliminated. Consequently, at the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee on 6 November, it was decided to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring Article 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution (this was a consensual decision) and to appoint the Chairman of the Committee, Helmen Küttt, to act as rapporteur, a speaker in front of you today (also a consensual decision). The proposals were supported by Liina Kersna, Monika Haukanõm, Dmitri Dmitriev, Jüri Jaanson, Marika Tuus-Laul, Maris Lauri, Tiina Kangro, Viktor Vassilyev and a speaker in front of you. These were discussions that took place at two meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs. The Committee on Social Affairs will certainly continue the debate on this issue, which also concerns the topic of nursing homes, because we have also been to them with the Commission. Once again, as the ownership of nursing homes is very different, there are private homes and there are very many institutions that local authorities have created for their own people, it has indeed not been in the Commission for discussion like this. But I say that maybe there have been so few of these appeals because local authorities take care of their people, they try to get these tools, they do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U53	The round of questions will be opened by Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U54	Thank you. Honourable performer! I have a question with two sides. Firstly, did the Commission also mention that nursing homes are generally underfunded, regardless of their ownership? Secondly, prisoners cannot be free to decide and support. Can they rot because of the beds and stuff? Why did we leave them out when the threat is the same for everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U55	Thank you very much for your question. In the Committee on Social Affairs, however, we were talking about the issue that in nursing homes, if we are not talking about public special care institutions, we were talking about nursing homes, where the local government or private sector service is in fact paying close to the cost, plus the person's own pension and the municipality is also taking part, especially in the case of unfamiliar persons. What is the place fee in different nursing homes, and how much it is compared to the amount of the pension was a matter of discussion, but not in the context of aids. As far as prisons are concerned, people in prison do not have to be supported by loved ones either. It is financed from the state budget and, consequently, there is this distinction. What people need there is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U56	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Several waitresses pointed out here that people have been treated unequally, whether they live at home or not. Did you also have a debate in the Commission on this case, which we remember a few months ago, that entrepreneurs were cassing welfare equipment for people by selling them as if they were making an unjustified amount of money or making an unfair profit? Could it have been a situation like this here that people were actually double-capped for these instruments, but they were left in trouble?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U58	Thank you. This is a particular issue concerning the double billing of the people, but above all to the health insurance fund, which we did not have in the Commission. It is true that we had this topic during the debate in the Commission that if someone opens a nursing home with only four walls, after the amendment of the law, the person who goes to live there has the right to have all the necessary resources with the support of the state. If it is a private operator, there is no doubt about what it will include in the charge that will be financed for it. As I also said, the service provided by the municipalities and the payoff are very different. There are places where there is a minimum level of money paid by someone who does not need any tools, nappies or anything. If there is a need for medicines, including prescription medicines and diapers, then there is a possibility that they will be provided by a nursing home, but their cost will be added to the local fee. Perhaps the fee is personalised: who needs these aids, the cost of those who do not need it will be added to the fee. There are also places where a certain number of diapers and the cost of prescription medicines have already been included in the place tax of the nursing home and there is a certain list. It's a very, very wide world. But I do not agree to say that, like all the nursing homes that are in Estonia, and the municipalities that offer this service would not offer a service that meets their needs. It's clear that the pay for a nursing home should be written off, what it's made up of. We did not really have that in the Commission. Yesterday, however, an increase in the place tax for the nursing home came into question from January 1st. Place taxes in nursing homes rise across Estonia. We know that pensions will rise from 1 April, but place taxes will rise from 1 January. Some of the ups are quite large, several hundred euros or at least one hundred euros or even fifty euros. It is well-founded that relatives, as well as municipalities who buy this service from another nursing home, may not all have the institution to provide this service, and in particular municipalities who pay for unfamiliar persons, have an interest in the estimates from which it is made up. It is clear that people who work in nursing homes also need a raise because it is a very difficult job. But it all has to be clear. So there was this debate. It was also a matter of saying that if all the instruments were equally available, what does this mean for the state budget? I personally believe that people living at home and in nursing homes should really be equal in this sense. The list of aids that a person living at home can apply for should be exactly the same as the list of aids that a person living in a nursing home can apply for. However, it must also be clear that this was the subject of a debate in the Commission, whether, for example, the home to be opened should be subject to a certain list of what should all exist there. On this point, the counsellors of the Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice felt that this could lead to a situation where a nursing home shuts the door or does not create new nursing homes because they cannot guarantee all this. We know that there are queues now and that the demographic situation is increasing the number of older people. If there's a shortage of seats, it's very bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U59	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U60	Good manager! Good waitress! I ask you, as an experienced social worker, the question I asked in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a representative of the ministry, but there was no answer. Although ownership is different and the content of the place fees is different, how much do you think the state actually saved money from diapers, taxis, pillows, etc. by establishing this inequality over 16 years in all of these hundreds of nursing homes? Do you have any idea how many millions we've saved on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U61	Thank you for that question. I would like to hope, and I think that, since the care of the elderly is the responsibility of the municipality, very many aids have been obtained by the municipality or by close relatives, because, as I said under our family law, children and grandchildren have such a responsibility. If the good questioner wants to know my personal position, I am in a bit of a difficult situation today because I am a Commission waitress. Indeed, this was not discussed in the Commission, but I am taking this opportunity to say that I also believe that unequal treatment is and it is questionable that, under family law, children and grandchildren are obliged to provide care and reward for their elderly family members, but in the case of those who do not have loved ones, the state takes over this responsibility. I very much like the Finnish model, where it is the responsibility of the state and the municipality. In Finland, children and grandchildren do not love their loved ones less. The question is simply whether the Estonian state has these opportunities or not. There are no options today. However, this contradiction, which is currently in the case of aid instruments, will certainly be resolved by this amendment and will be an opportunity to request these aids. As you can see, this Daisy player is a very specific tool. I know that there are nursing homes where it has been solved by the current information technology, which is, as they say, an old laptop, where stories are stored and you can listen to it all when you press it there. It's very specific. I guess that's why it came up now, because diapers, pillows to prevent beds, and everything like that exist in a lot of nursing homes, there are taxis, carts, wheelchairs. If they are very specific, it is actually possible for a person living in a nursing home to order them. But it is important that there is clarity and that it is equally understandable. I would very much like to thank the Social Affairs Committee for bringing this matter to this conclusion by the Chancellor of Justice. I can say that in 2014 the Chancellor of Justice, Indrek Teder, was not so specific, but he also presented this problem by analysing different options. At the time, in 2014, the Ministry of Social Affairs took steps to extend this list, i.e. to the aids included in the regulation. It was also extended in 2016.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U62	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. A very honored waitress! This is a growing problem in our society, as you pointed out. But I'm gonna bring here another subject. If we have all the resources we need to care for these helpless people, then more will be needed. In our party's local election programme, it was proposed to pay the minimum wage to relatives who care for their helpless parents or also disabled children, which would also guarantee them health insurance. I think that would be a relief. I'm not saying it's a way out, but it would be a relief. After all, we also see that if the orderly has a choice as to whether he works for a small salary in an Estonian nursing home or goes away to Finland, Finland and Estonia are often chosen to do this work. Would you support our proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U64	Thank you for that question. I hope that the honourable hall will forgive me, because I should say briefly that this was not discussed in the Commission, but if I am already on this platform and I can say my personal opinion, which you have asked for, I do not want to give such examples that, in fact, we have carers across Estonia who are paid various grants. It is up to the municipalities to decide how much this support is. I think that if the state pays a formal, or formal, guardian for health insurance and also a social tax on the basis of a minimum wage, which is sometimes higher than the allowance received by the carer, the municipality will be able to pay this money if there are funds available. He could do so in view of people with deep or severe disabilities. The need for care varies. When we started talking about election programmes, I can say that when applying in Viljandi, the Social Democrats also said that the parents of children with a deep disability must start somewhere with a higher care allowance. So in any case, I support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U65	Thank you, dear waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U66	I thank you and once again the Chancellor of Justice for his proposal. We're waiting for a quick solution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U67	I will now open negotiations to all those who wish. I don't see that wish. Does the Honorable Chancellor of Justice want to speak again? I don't see that wish either. We have a vote ahead of us, as was said at the beginning of the sitting. Now let's get some colleagues in the room. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the question of who is in favour of the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice. Just in case, I'll remind you of the question. The Chancellor of Justice's proposal was to bring Article 47 (3) of the Social Welfare Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Now let's vote. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 78 parliamentarians, no respondents and no abstentions. As the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the Chancellor of Justice, on the basis of § 152 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, I hereby instruct the Social Affairs Committee to initiate a draft to bring the Social Welfare Act § 47 (3) into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The debate on the first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U68	The second item is the first reading of draft 529 of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Gambling Tax Board. Please report to the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U69	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft decision was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs after Mr Helme's statement was received that he would like to leave the Gambling Tax Council. The decision to initiate was taken by the Commission on 24 October. Then the deadline for submitting amendments was set, as in such cases this decision is taken before the first reading. No amendments had been received by 3 November when the deadline expired. On 6 November we discussed this issue again, and by consensus the decision was taken to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda for today, 14 November and put to the final vote. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur. The content of the draft is very simple: Lauri Luik, a member of the Riigikogu, becomes a member of the council instead of Mart Helme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U70	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you, dear waitress. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. There's no call. I will close the negotiations without really opening them. There were no amendments to the 529 bill, as you have heard, so we can go to the final vote. Are we ready to vote? I will put to the vote the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled'Appointment of a member of the Gambling Tax Council', submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 529. Please take a stand and vote. 63 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, no one voted against and no one abstained. Draft 529 of the decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of a member of the Gambling Tax Board" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U71	Third item: First reading of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu Trouble Committee on the Riigikogu for the Development of Developments of State Reform' draft 531 by the Social Democratic Party Group. Please report to Riigikogu member Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U72	According to § 90 (1) (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the Group of the Social Democratic Party submits a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision to establish the 'Conformation Committee of the Riigikogu for the Development of Developments of State Reform'. The Group of the Social Democratic Party wishes to appoint Mr Tanel Talve, the current alternate, instead of Mr Ivari Padar, as a member of the Parliament's Problem Committee for the development of developments in state reform, and to appoint Ms Liisa Oviir as an alternate member of the committee instead of Mr Tanel Talve. The proposal is due to the fact that Ivari Padar from the Group of the Social Democratic Party is going to the European Parliament and this necessitates the organisation of work and the change in the composition of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U73	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. I invite Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U74	Good afternoon. As of the day, the lieutenant speaks and the sergeant listens. As you can see, this bill is due to the soccer maneuvers. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed to approve the manoeuvres and put the draft to the final vote today so that people can get their seats right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U75	No questions for you either. I'll open negotiations if there's any requests. That's not what you want. No amendments were tabled on draft 531, so we can go to the final vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Riigikogu Problem Committee for the Development of Developments of State Reform' by the Social Democratic Party Group, draft 531. Please take a stand and vote. 58 MPs voted in favour of the proposal with 4 abstentions. Draft 531 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Riigikogu's Trouble Committee for the Development of State Reform' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U76	The fourth item is the first reading of draft 530 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on the Control of State Budget' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Jürgen Ligi, member of the Riigikogu, will present the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present to you the draft of the Reform Party Group, which envisages a major change in the composition of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. As for my transition to new hunting grounds, at the will of my group, I am releasing a place for a person who is no less afraid of fools or raffles than I was. His name is Aivar Sõerd. So I ask you to respect him and love him and to support him in a consensual way. Surely he exposes wrongdoing with the same consistency that I am, if not to say that he will continue to do so. But we also decided to replace Tanel Talve, and we chose Inara Luigas to replace him. I don't want to talk about it any more. Please support the bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U78	There is at least one question for the rapporteur. Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U79	You had a very bright career as chairman of the committee and certainly a lot of winnings. What would you like to highlight, what went best?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U80	Thank you. Maybe that's the sparkle I'd like to bring up. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Perhaps you have noticed this, but I can assure you that it is very difficult to shine in person, because it is a politically balanced Commission, where parties, how to say, must always be restrained by partiality. I think that's why we glowed. But it was interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U81	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U82	Thank you! I was a little confused with your expression that you chose Inara Luigas instead of Tanel Talve. What did this selection look like anyway? Why don't you describe this thing a little bit? I don't think that's the way it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U83	Thank you. I hate to stop at it, but if you still compare Tanel Talve and Inara Luis, you'll understand. [[Whispering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U84	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You talked about your accomplishments and exposed something or someone, I don't know. Why don't you tell us the hall is full of curious people with a few revelations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U86	Thank you. Actually, I think the revelations are all on tape. I'd rather not talk about it any further. If you've missed our public sessions on Mondays at 1:00, check it out and you'll get a lot more answers than this would fit into mine right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U87	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Was there a bikini round?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U89	Thank you. I didn't even understand the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U90	I did, but that wasn't the right question. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U91	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said you were going to new hunting grounds. Did you run out of game in the old hunting grounds?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U92	Good question. No, I didn't. But a man can't move in two directions, and Aivar is willing to continue this hunt instead of me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U93	No further questions. This was a vivid example of how somewhat routine activity can become personal. Please, Marko Pomerants, waitress of the commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U94	It will then be decided whether there are small game or large game in the Reform Party Group, but the fact is that there are two maneuvers. As Jürgen Ligi described, he was replaced by Aivar Sõerd as a member of the Special Committee on State Budget Control and there was an amendment to appoint Tanel Talve to replace Inara Luigas. This was already in the process, at first it was not, but we have approved this proposal and now there is a proposal to put the draft to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U95	March Sults wants to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U96	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Did Mr. Jürgen Ligi say anything about his withdrawal, or did he give you a reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U97	Yes, Jürgen Ligi has become the chairman of the Reform Party Group in the meantime. As is the custom for Estonia, one president at a time, one group chairman and one member of the special committee. That's what we do here every day. In fact, it's nothing out of routine, business like every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U98	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. There's no call. One amendment has been tabled for draft 530. Let us examine this amendment. The first and only amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The amendment to draft 530 has thus been examined and I shall put the draft to the vote in a moment. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, draft 530. Please take a stand and vote. The draft decision was supported by 58 MPs, with one abstention. Draft 530 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U99	Today's fifth item: Second reading of the Administrative Procedure Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Amendment of Other Acts Act 497. Mr Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U100	Good afternoon. As our President-in-Office has said, this is the second reading of the Act amending the Administrative Procedure Act and other laws 497. No amendments were received by the deadline for tabling amendments, but this does not mean that we did not propose amendments. We formulated these amendments on behalf of the Commission itself. The first amendment concerns paragraph 1 (2) of the draft. Our proposal is to delete it from the draft, so that the same text of § 14 (3) (4) is maintained, which is currently in the law. We contacted potential partners again during the time when amendments were tabled, and the Supreme Court reacted on the basis of their daily practice. This concerns a situation where the party to proceedings does not have an address and no information on the e-mail address. How, then, can we make delivery a reality? It is known that in such cases it is possible to use national newspapers or official publications in the cases provided for by law. However, in order to be more precise, it is proposed that the document be deemed to have been served by publication in the newspaper or in Official Announcements even if the natural person does not acknowledge receipt of the document transmitted by electronic means. He's given his e-mail address, but he doesn't confirm he's received the document. Legal persons are not expected to do so. They have announced that their OÜs and ASs are all registered in this apartment, and if the letter goes to this address, it will be deemed to have been received. In the case of a natural person, there is no such presumption. For the sake of clarity, amendment No 2 relating to subsection 31 (1) (2) of the Act has been introduced. The proposal is to support these two amendments. As a result of its discussion, the Commission reached a consensus that the debate could be held today in this large Chamber and that the second reading could be concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U101	You have questions. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U102	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, please remind me! Once, the number of free signatures was limited for ID-card users. Is that still valid? If this is the case, will it also affect the implementation of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U103	This was not in any way under discussion in the framework of this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U104	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U105	Thank you, dear waitress. I had a question about publishing in the newspaper when a person could not be reached by e - mail or other electronic means. Is there any more specific regulation for this publication in newspapers? What are the pages that are considered to be readable and accessible, which can be used better than by e - mail?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U106	The practice has not been followed, but I dare say that at least Postimees and Eesti Päevaleht could qualify.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U107	Thank you very much for the waitress. No further questions for you. I open negotiations for all members of the Riigikogu. There's no call. Two amendments have been tabled to draft 497, as we have just heard. Let's take a look at them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take full account. The proposed amendments to draft 497 have been examined and the proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of draft 497. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U108	Today's sixth item is the first reading of the Act on the Election of the Local Government Council, the Act on the Election of the Riigikogu and the Act amending other laws 504. Please present Mr Andres Herkel, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U109	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This is certainly a bill of interest to all of us, to all politicians, because it concerns the rules of the election campaign. To sum up its contents well, it can be said that it consists of three very important elements. One of them is the removal of one of the restrictions of confusion and non-functioning; this restriction is a total ban on outdoor advertising during the so-called active agitation period. We want to lift this ban. But we are proposing two limitations that we believe could work better and are appropriate. First of all, the election campaign expenditure ceiling. Secondly, the perspiration of the visual device (we find that this is a better term than 'outdoor advertising') area limitation. These three aspects of the draft are interrelated and have been repeatedly discussed both here in the Riigikogu and outside the Riigikogu. Several Chancellors of Justice, the Supreme Court, etc. have dealt with these issues. Perhaps it is not so important to even stop at what were the reasons why the Riigikogu went this way in 2005 to impose a total restriction on outdoor advertising. Rather, it is essential to analyse the extent to which this restriction has met its original objectives. Here, the initiators of the bill are very critical. At the same time, I would not want to leave a historical aspect of my report unattended. I think this is very important, because the original text of this draft, which introduced a total ban on outdoor advertising, also contained something completely different. I also point out that this whole historical review and the subject-matter is also included in a master's thesis, namely in the work of Liisa Ojangu in 2016 'Ensureing fair political competition through the restriction of political advertising'. So, in drawing up the historical review, I have not only used my memory but also the help of the diligent people of the Secretariat of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the work mentioned. First of all, how this ban on outdoor advertising has worked and how it has been dealt with. The first treatment arose immediately after the adoption of the law. In fact, on 6 September 2005, Chancellor Jõks presented a report to the Riigikogu and proposed to analyse the issue of restricting outdoor advertising again and to amend this regulation. He saw the right violation of a number of fundamental rights in this full ban, he stressed the right to freedom of expression, the freedom to conduct a business, as well as the fundamental right of a political party, the freedom to vote, etc. This comprehensive report is available and accessible to all. That is how Chancellor Jõks dealt with the matter. The next Chancellor of Justice, Mr Teder, also proposed on 9 June 2008 that the Riigikogu bring those sections of the European Parliament Election Act, the Local Government Council Election Act and the Riigikogu Election Act, which deal with the full ban on outdoor advertising, into line with the Constitution. At the time, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal was supported by the Riigikogu, even the corresponding bill was submitted. But what happened to the bill? As is often the case, this fell out of the procedure due to the end of the work, which was never completed with this draft. Chancellor of Justice Teder also addressed the Supreme Court in this case, but he did not actually succeed there. At the time, the Supreme Court took the view (this decision came in 2010) that the fact that one restriction is ineffective does not make it unconstitutional. However, a number of individual problems have arisen. Namely, in 2011 Raivo Uukkivi and Raivo Uukkivi also arrived at the Supreme Court. Very recently, this was Artur Talvik's car case for the 2015 elections. In the administrative court, this complaint received a supportive view that the rights of the candidate were indeed disproportionately limited. Perhaps even if it has been found that the general ban on large outdoor advertising is not fully in conflict with the Constitution, the individual right of each candidate to make a'small' advertising on private premises may, however, be completely unambiguously and clearly limited for a small amount of money. What were the noble principles on which the ban on outdoor advertising was claimed to be based? The aim was to reduce campaign costs, reduce the share of money in achieving political power, ensure greater equality of candidates, ensure an increase in substantive political arguments during the election campaign, etc. These objectives, which must be said, have not been realised. There are, and there are, examples that the time to hang posters has simply shifted forward and the campaign has increased, campaign costs have gradually increased and election campaigns have shifted to other media. So most of these objectives have not been realised. This has also been pointed out by President Kersti Kaljulaid, who has stated that the campaign has stretched longer and has become increasingly expensive, and the demonstration of the poster in a situation where all other advertising is allowed is simply silly. This ban has lived up to its time and does not take into account the ability of the voter to think. In fact, only one of the objectives highlighted in the restriction has apparently come true. This is a release of public space from posters the size of a house. Here, however, the question arises as to whether it is enough on its own. As I have already pointed out, in the case of the 2005 decision, it must be stressed that it was preceded by a draft which was withdrawn in anticipation of a better compromise, and, more importantly, the same draft that introduced the restriction was quite different at first. It contained not a total ban on outdoor advertising, but restrictions, such restrictions, which are actually very similar to what I am proposing today. The first of these drafts, which I remember very well, was presented by the Group of the Pro Patria Union in January 2004. It was quite a long title: 'The law amending the Law on Elections and Referendums to limit political advertising and campaign costs'. George Adams helped me work it out. There were a number of aspects, including an attempt to define the concept of political advertising that was still lacking there, the volume of visual advertising was limited to 1 square metre, the restriction of advertising money during electoral intervention was set at 4 million kroons, the creation of a political advertising commission, etc. As I said, this bill was withdrawn in the hope of a better compromise. In March 2005, Riigikogu members Jarno Laur, Koit Prants, Ela Tomson and Jaanus Marrand and Mart Nutt, who are currently present in the Riigikogu, initiated the next draft which provided that the poster or visual information carrier should be limited to 1 square metre. This time it was attempted to define the concept of political outdoor advertising and it was envisaged that, 60 days before the elections, local government councils should determine those public areas where, without any charge, the political forces participating in the elections would be able to make an equal opportunity for visual advertising. This is not the end of the history of this subject. Next came the draft People's Union from 2007, where once again there was a restriction on advertising sites and campaign costs, this time there was talk of 10 million kroons, and once again it went through a 1 square meter in the size of visual advertising. In 2009, the Greens, the Social Democrats and the People's Union submitted a draft listing a number of costs which should have been considered to be subject to a limitation on the costs of the electoral campaign. This time, the amount was set at a lower rate of 5 million kroons. In short, these aspects have been discussed repeatedly and repeatedly. The last such attempt was a supplement to the party law presented by the Social Democrats in 2014, which tried to limit the annual advertising costs to EUR 500000. In no case (with the exception of the one draft drawn up in response to Indrek Teder's request) has the accompanying proposal to abolish the ban on outdoor advertising. However, in general, these initiatives have not revealed this complex that the original idea of 2005 will be addressed, the disproportionate restriction on outdoor advertising will be removed, but other, less restrictive restrictions will be imposed. That's more or less the end of my review. The faction of the Free Party found the last campaign to elect local governments and the re-emerging wave of outdoor advertising that it was best to come up with a draft that would, on the one hand, lift the restriction on outdoor advertising, but, on the other hand, impose restrictions on campaign costs and on the size of the visual tool, the poster. Those aspects that have been addressed here, as I said, repeatedly and repeatedly together, are useful to address together. If there were somewhere to be a circle of ideas that I have heard in the costaires that the proposal could only be supported by a restriction on outdoor advertising, then it would certainly be one-sided. The most useful thing is to return to this idea, which, for reasons unknown to me, I do not remember exactly, in 2005 was thrown into the trash bin and a total ban on outdoor advertising was introduced, which is probably now unusable by Estonian society and which, among other things, will also harm the interests of candidates who are campaigning with less money. For them, this type of A4 flyer they want to put on a stand somewhere, may be the only available means to inform people that they're also running. In addition, all this ban has caused a great deal of confusion in the Police and Border Guard Board, which must look for posters, their pieces and remains, and track their uplifters on the streets and elsewhere in public places, even though they would have something much smarter to do, to say the least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U110	I'm opening a round of questions. I would remind you that both rapporteurs will be able to ask up to two questions. Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U111	Thank you. Good colleague! I support some of the idea of your draft, but I myself think that there will be an advance vote ten days or two weeks before the elections, and that essentially means that the elections will be held then. You are suggesting that any visual and audio election campaign should be prohibited on election day. I mean, what's the point of doing this job in one night? When the elections are over, we'll take these papers and everything that's stuck on the wall or put somewhere else, in short, off the ads. There's no need to do this job in such a hurry. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U112	Thank you. This problem is not new. Certainly these things must be taken down and, as a rule, they will also be taken down after the elections. I do remember, and I do remember these discussions. In fact, on that last day, on the'real election day', there is a ban on agitation either way, regardless of whether outdoor advertising is prohibited or not. It has been discussed repeatedly and repeatedly, as I recall, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whether this ban is practical at all. Indeed, many people vote in advance and many people vote in e-voting, and at that time parties are on the streets with their tents and are campaigning. Why, then, does this ban have to apply on this last Sunday? I must say that these debates have so far come to the point that it is a tradition that cannot be broken, because people are, however, used to the fact that the election campaign is no longer being held on the last day. In some ways, it may also save candidates because they no longer have to run desperately on the last day. In short, so far, there has been such an approach that this last day should still be left entirely free of campaign. But I agree that these boundaries are blurry. If the general position in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs should tend to the fact that it is time to remove this ban as well, this is certainly not an obstacle to the realisation of all the other positive aspects contained in our draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U113	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U114	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Unfortunately, you were not in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to present this draft and, therefore, we did not receive answers to a number of questions. First of all, I have a question about terms. You didn't mention it before, just now when you answered, you finally mentioned the pep talk, you talked about outdoor advertising all the time, and you used other terms. Why does this term come in, and why isn't it being unraveled, what is it? The second fundamental question is per square metre. Historic insight was quite good in the sense that apparently this square metre of law came out of it well. In the Commission, our former colleague, Ivari Padar, said that he too may have been responsible for this, perhaps he then fled to Europe. But my question is why the 1 square meter that actually doesn't relate to real life is chosen, even in bus waiting pavilions, this area is 1.5 square meters. If we put the poster on the side of the road, that 1 square meter isn't an indicator. In fact, it is possible to use option 10 x 1 or 100 x 1. What's with the square meter approach?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U115	Thank you, Mr. Hallemaa. I think that this square metre approach came from the fact that, in the first draft, when it was launched here in January 2004, we were still based on the notion that the time for large-bought outdoor advertising would begin to pass without a ban and political culture would be very useful if it were replaced by posters available to everyone on public spaces, notices, even programmed documents. In order to set up these small posters on an equal footing, no one needs a surface larger than one square metre. So the candidate may only have to bear the printing costs and nothing else. If there is any deliberate proposal to change that size, either increase or perhaps even reduce it, then it can certainly be spoken of. It is quite remarkable, however, that in all the drafts I referred to above, since the first draft of the Fatherland Union, but also in the subsequent draft, including those submitted by the People's Union, it is within 1 square metre. Maybe it's just a nice round size, besides everything else. As regards the term of the election campaign that we are using, your argument is not true, because I mentioned it once in the report. I guess the old habit is inside, just like the terminology of the previous drafts and the current law. But in our opinion, 'defeat work' is a beautiful Estonian word. Indeed, in the first paragraph, where we are talking about restrictions on the promotion, we use a concept such as the visual instrument of the promotional work used in the election campaign (poster, electronic display, etc.). I think it's pretty clear what it's trying to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U116	Tiit Terik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague! I will continue the issue of Hallemaa somewhat, and I will also come to this one square metre. To date, such reasonable formats have actually developed (the bus waiting pavilions mentioned above, 6 × 3) and it seems to be based on sober peasant wisdom. I guess those who put posters the size of a lifetime will be judged by the voter. How do you feel about the idea that some advertisers have already pointed out that, if the legislator really imposes this 1 square metre limit, they will be able to divide a large surface into 16 nice 1 square meters squared areas, where it is possible to place posters side by side so that it still forms this one and beautiful 6 × 3?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U118	Thank you. First of all, I think it is highly debatable whether, in this case, it is a visual instrument of 16 different types of exhilaration. In my opinion, it remains one instrument. If necessary, this may also be specified in the text of the draft. But I can't help but point out that you have been fixed to these bus waiting pavilions and their paid surfaces. Go around, even in Western European countries, and see what is happening there during the election campaign. There is no such thing that it will be paid for the money we are taking from the state budget (even at second reading of the state budget tomorrow, this amount will be included in the budget) and will be bought advertising space to sell ourselves to the voter. This isn't right. It is recalled that Tõnu Kaljustel once had a pretty remarkable post on Facebook where he compared visual advertising in Jordan and Finland. It's like night and day. We belong to the same cultural area as Finland. Indeed, this may be further written in this draft, so that the municipalities give these surfaces and that they are reasonably small. This, in my opinion, is where Estonia should head in the future if we remain on the path of an evolving democracy and a fully-fledged cultural people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U119	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The draft law also introduces a clause on the limitation of electoral expenditure. In preparing this provision, did you also look at, analyse and assess the link between the electoral expenditure and the result achieved? What could it be like? Do you have an overview of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U121	Thank you. I do not have a very precise overview here, of course, but it is obvious that this connection has been startlingly large in Estonia. The link between the money spent on the electoral campaign and the result of the election is completely and clearly there. I recall one research carried out by political scientist Allan Sikk, which proved that it was more than ten years ago, but just when this solution was sought and a very wrong solution was apparently found that the correlation between the money spent in the elections and the result of the election was very high in Estonia. What else was done at the same time as the restriction on outdoor advertising was introduced? At the same time, the funding of political parties from the state budget was increased several times. Obviously, it only contributed to this tendency. A bit of raising your tail here might say that the election campaign of the Free Party 2015 is perhaps one of the most outstanding examples that has worked against this trend. But it doesn't give me any guarantees. If we do nothing, the trend continues that there is a very close link between the campaign costs and the election result.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U122	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U123	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress, in your presentation, you gave numerous examples of the various initiatives that have been sought to take in order to optimise the costs and opportunities of reaching power. Have any of them been accepted and realized, apart from setting a dry field advertising campaign limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U124	Thank you. Very little has been received. As I have pointed out many times, much has been said about exhilaration, the size of the visual instrument and the ceiling for campaign costs. These proposals have been tabled repeatedly and repeatedly, but without consequence. Still, one thing comes to mind. It is that already in the draft that was presented by the then Group of the Fatherland Alliance in January 2004, there was a thing inside which was called the Political Advertising Commission. In the draft submitted by the People's Union a few years later, this was also in my opinion. In any case, the idea of something like this, which has come true as a committee for the supervision of the financing of political parties, went through these first drafts. Sometime later, this proposal was indeed adopted. In my opinion, this committee has, at times, worked quite well and efficiently, even surprisingly well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U125	Helmut Hallemaa, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U126	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You have this encouragement here as a term in three variants: in the title of § 61, it is in the form of a 'election campaign cheering', in paragraph 1 there is a 'visual and audio electoral campaign' and in paragraph 2 the visual instrument of 'election campaign cheering'. In fact, this confusion with the terms I wanted to draw attention to is very big. My question is about funding, which my good colleague, Krista Aru, has already pointed out, but my question is a little different. Three completely different elections, i.e. municipal elections, Riigikogu elections and European Parliament elections, have been summarised here, where there are already different districts and the number of candidates varies enormously. You've taken and hit $500,000 with one table. Why like this? Political parties and electoral alliances have also been put in the pot. For example, political parties who stand as candidates for local elections are all-Estonian, i.e. they have all-Estonian costs, electoral associations only have costs in specific municipalities. Why are they the same here, and can they be taken the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U127	Thank you. I'm gonna answer that question right now. But I still don't think it's a terminological confusion. When we talk about what we have so far called "in other words," it is obvious that it is audible, visual, etc. These clarifications, I think, what is being used here and there, in one place or another, should be unambiguous. Now, out of this EUR 500000. I also read above, for the sake of history, which orders of magnitude have been used in the past, if restrictions have been imposed on campaign costs or so on. I'm also pointing out the differences here. This is certainly something that should be discussed together, which road is most appropriate. For example, the draft submitted by the social democrats during the previous term was not about campaign costs during the period of active agitation, but was about advertising costs that were to be capped by calendar year. These are completely different things to be counted together, but the goal is the same. I'm not ready to tell you who's actually smarter and more effective. They used the same amount, EUR 500000 that we are offering here, per three-month period, to sum up all campaign costs, not just advertising costs. I guess he's a little bit of an estimate, isn't he? This can be said of all the sizes that have been offered. However, as far as it is concerned that electoral alliances and political parties of the same size are being measured, there is still no doubt that it would be too high for some electoral union of 500000. I may well see behind this question, perhaps, that the electoral alliances and local elections should perhaps have a lower limit. That can be discussed in principle, too, but I don't see that big a problem here. As far as the draft is concerned with the local elections, the Riigikogu elections and the European elections together, that is correct. This has been generally the case in the past in solving such problems. I think we will make this whole thing too difficult if we start setting different criteria for election alliances, political parties, different elections and perhaps referendums.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U128	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U129	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! This draft is sympathetic to only one point concerning the end of the ban on outdoor advertising. There have been problems with this ban from election to election. Even during the last elections, there was a very serious problem for the police who had to subjectively assess whether or not this ban was being violated. The problem is, of course, that there are many other points embedded in this good goal, which, I am afraid, do not find majority approval in this Chamber. So I'm asking you, don't you see a little contradiction here? On the one hand, we want to put an end to the pointless restriction, i.e. the ban on outdoor advertising, at a time when this advertising goes elsewhere, such as TV, and at the same time we want to impose a new restriction, which is a 1 square metre limit on outdoor advertising. For example, there are billboards at the bus stops with a space of 1.8 square meters for the poster and the Free Party itself campaigned there a few months ago. Where does this 1 square meter come from, and how do you justify it? How can you avoid skirting to place, for example, several posters side by side?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U130	Thank you, Mr. Jaak Madison. To answer this question, I must probably return to the objectives for which the restriction on outdoor advertising was introduced. At the time, we were talking about reducing the share of money in achieving political power, reducing campaign costs and ensuring the equality of candidates. It is simply this solution that has not met these objectives, which does not mean that there are other possible limitations and solutions to meet these objectives. We are of the opinion that the ceiling of campaign costs and the size of the visual stimulus tool could be these tools. As I pointed out in my comparatively long historical review and presentation, these ideas have been presented in various drafts before. Among other things, the People's Union, or the predecessor of your party, has done so, which is why we are very much counting on the support of the EKRE in terms of posters of 1 square metre, and perhaps the setting of a ceiling. As I pointed out above, we want to replace a non-functioning and very rigid restriction with less stringent ones, and we think that it makes every sense. All the more so since all political forces represented in this Chamber, with the exception of the Centre Party and the Reform Party alone, or at least their predecessors, have offered such solutions themselves in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U131	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U132	Thank you. Clearly, it is not possible to imagine or understand whether such a visual device is visible. The square metre poster is not visible. But what I want to ask you is about the $500,000 that your proposal should be the limit of the election campaign. You have said here that a party or an individual candidate must not spend more. Why have you not considered it necessary to impose this restriction on the electoral alliances? Why has such distinction come about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U133	Thank you, Mr. Pier. If the 1 square meter poster wasn't visible, you wouldn't be visible to me right now, but you're visible. [[Laughing.]] Okay. On the other side of the question concerning the possible distinction between electoral unions and political parties in this solution, I answered above. There's a steinogram coming. If you weren't in the hall, you can see that answer from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U134	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U135	Thank you. In itself, I very much welcome the relaxation of advertising restrictions, because following them and controlling them is really very resource-intensive. The resources could be used elsewhere. But I wanted to ask you more specific. You referred here to a study which explained that there was a link between advertising costs and the result of the election. Are these relationships also causal? Perhaps it is just that a rich party has been in power and done everything well, and he is re-elected, i.e. the result of the election is good because the job has been good, not because there has been a lot of money for advertising. Have any causal relationship been demonstrated in these studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U136	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I have to say that we must probably look into this article by Allan Sik. I dare say these connections are causal. But they're not absolute. It didn't work out either, so this correlation was 100%, I think it was 90%. So perhaps, within this 10%, other aspects are really playing a role, but this correlation is obviously very, very large. Certainly, as I pointed out above, the fact that the parties represented in the Riigikogu also receive financial support according to the number of mandates clearly cements it. I would suggest that you take out the data, perhaps some politicians will someday also study which political forces in this Chamber are most intensively presenting drafts, amendments, works in the Chamber and on the Commission at all, and whether this is related to the result of the election.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U137	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good colleague! You want to reduce the amount spent on political advertising with this bill. Looking at the table in your bill, we can see that more than 1.3 million were spent on television in 2015, just over 0.5 million spent on outdoor advertising. Don't you think that if you start limiting, you could start with the most expensive articles? Perhaps the idea could be that television advertising could also be limited, for example in 5 or 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U139	Thank you. I think there's a point in itself. It could be that all participants in the elections, or at least those who, for example, have placed a full list in the elections to the Riigikogu, either give public television some equal amount of space to mediate their ideas through advertising, or it is given equally fixed on commercial channels, which are not really there. But I have to make a statement about the table in the explanatory memorandum. The table is entitled 'Promotional expenses of the departments in 2015'. Indeed, it was an election year and the two months that preceded the election day should show how much was spent on advertising on television, on radio and on the Internet, on outdoor advertising, on advertising in the press and on publications. But if we think a little bit about the situation we were in, we all know that the field commercial was done before New Year's Eve. Perhaps the share of outdoor advertising should actually be significantly higher, but during the active campaign, there was a ban on outdoor advertising, so it wasn't really there, or it was only really at the beginning of January. So if we were to take aside the 2014 table, these reference numbers would probably be significantly different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U140	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U141	Thank you. For me, the term "outdoor advertising" is in many ways unsympathetic. It's just because he's in my mind that in one book there was a colorful figure, Field Priest Katz, it always comes to mind. The second question here is, what are the opposites, whether outdoor advertising is opposed to outdoor advertising or against non-field advertising? There's a whole bunch of questions. But we have one argument about what these things really cost political parties and the taxpayer. Could the Riigikogu do a commission that would help us find out that if we had just seen very large posters, as 'Others promise, we will do' or posters praising our team, how much did it cost the party to keep up for one week like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U142	Thank you. I don't know what it's supposed to look like. There could probably be a call for all of these sums to be made public in a row and in this row, etc., and then for us to look at them together. I'm sure it would be interesting to know. Indeed, why not collectively share such information? However, if this is not the case, I would say that the Political Financing Monitoring Commission will also take stock of the campaign costs and usually fix it when there have been some kind of misdemeanours or some kind of cross-border events, such as election advertising, but this has been paid for by the local authority, as has happened in the past in the case of the Centre Party. The most clear database, I think, is the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, which, I expect, is now taking stock of after the elections. But in order to develop better solutions, it is to be welcomed that parties themselves would show at what price they received, bought, obtained, purchased, one or the other outdoor advertising. If this comparison shows that prices have been different to one higher than the other, then the question must be further asked whether this is not a prohibited donation or an advantage in the form of price differences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U143	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U144	Thank you. Good waitress! As regards the opinions of the predecessors of most political parties and the proposals made in the past, I believe that the same ban on outdoor advertising is proof that even more than ten years ago was thought very misguided. So it also devalues all the other proposals that were made at the time, be it a 1-square meter surface of the poster or other nonsense. This is not the argument that these proposals were ever made. We're just creating a new problem for the old one. I have a question, too. If I put five side by side posters, all of which are 1 square meter and they have a 5 centimeter difference, who should start checking if it goes or doesn't go under one poster? Who's finally gonna check to see if the policeman who's in control of the ban on outdoor advertising is in control? That's another thing. What are we going to do, for example, with a party that spends 2 million euros on the campaign, exceeds the pre-set threshold four times and already puts the EUR 50000 in advance, which, according to your bill, is a fine for such a thing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U145	Thank you, Jaak Madison! If I remember correctly, there is a point here somewhere that the money that is being spent more than this ceiling will simply be deducted from the state budget support in the future. So this thing is solved here. But who's gonna solve these things? It is the same Committee on Financing of Political Parties that has been set up for this purpose. While I am of the opinion that an error was made with the amendments in 2005, this original draft was not so misguided. If you have a different conviction, you just have it, I'm not going to argue any further here. EKRE seems to have the conviction that everything that has been before us has been done foolishly and wrong, regardless of exactly what that decision was.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U146	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U147	Thank you. In the last elections, we had somewhat less posters in Tallinn than ever before, and yet we received negative feedback. We received it first or, in fact, only because many people felt that we were not campaigning. It was seen that the posters of the Centre Party were five times more, and we were criticised for not seeing our faces and promises in the city's picture that people did not know who was running in a particular part of the city. So this argument has gone through, too. We are certainly not in favour of restrictions; we are not in favour of new interesting restrictions. I've seen these square-foot posters in other countries. This town picture is pretty ugly when all the poles, pipes, and planks are full of square-foot posters. In fact, this volume limitation does not work in the sense that campaigns are simply getting longer. On this occasion, the local election campaign was already held in spring. Do you really not appreciate the risks that, although your desire is sympathetic, the result is the opposite?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U148	Thank you, dear Arto Aas. I think the solution is basically there. If it is the local authority that issues these surfaces, then it is likely that the municipality will have enough reason to do so in such a way as not to disturb or disrupt the city's image. As for what you have pointed out, as the Reform Party would not have been seen, we have not created some sort of strange habit for the electorate with this massive advertising paid. The most appropriate means of weaning from this is still to establish an equal campaign cost ceiling for everyone and to reduce equally the amounts from the state budget. As I continue this line of thinking, I find the Reform Party in Tallinn to be very sympathetic: you did not go into competition with the army of city officials recruited by the Central Party in terms of the length of the list, but presented a list in a perfectly reasonable proportion. I think this is one step towards a better political culture. This step could also be taken in the field of visual incitement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U149	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U150	Mr. Waitress! Mr Asa's question about situations where desire and result conflict with one another is very important. In all of this so-called outdoor advertising and other topics, there have been at least this kind of declared wishes, I would call it, in the absence of a better one, Res Publica's own political technology, that greater equality will be declared, but smaller competitors will be banned from putting their posters, or more justice will be proclaimed by preventing donations from legal persons and directing donations to the floor. Are there any dangers in these ideas that we need to keep in mind all the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U151	Thank you, dear questioner. I think there's still danger. It is often the case that the legislator is unable to grasp these dangers at the moment he does the job. But apparently these risks are significantly lower than what the ban on outdoor advertising itself has created. As I pointed out above, we believe that this hits the most acutely the candidates who are short of funds and want to know whether they are applying for a personal car or a small advertising tool or something. What we are trying to do, either through the ceiling of campaign costs or through the maximum harmonised size of posters, should ensure this equality better. One of the dangers that I see in this case, however, is that it is still not mentioned in the round of questions and answers, is that it is not so easy to charge the election campaign costs that we say that there is a ceiling in that country, and that is it. One of the temptations that will surely arise is to sneak, hide real costs and spend more than this ceiling prescribes. That's the kind of danger I see.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U152	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U153	Thank you. You have repeatedly used the term 'political culture' here. Does the disparage and claim of the questioners, as if the EKRE were always against the earliest, give a good overview of the Free Party's understanding of political culture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U154	Thank you. No, I admit it. But the question was presented in a rather aggressive tone. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U155	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U156	Thank you. I'm coming back to the rationalness of these restrictions. It is, in itself, quite safe to deal with outdoor advertising, because I believe that its share of time is decreasing. It's a bit of a 1990s thinking that posters are the most important. With this restriction, the campaigns got longer, but the posters aren't gone. When we say that local governments should guarantee these surfaces, unfortunately local governments, at least in Tallinn, do not have any such surfaces. I don't know, maybe these theater plans are on local government soil. I think it would be unthinkable for the city to make some poster space for the parties. But I'll come back to the question. Don't you see the danger that this 90-day limit, half a million, will make the campaigns even longer? Exactly as the ban on outdoor advertising went: campaigns start earlier, even four months earlier, the emphasis is placed there and it is never banned or regulated, and the effect is exactly the opposite of what was intended to be achieved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U157	Thank you. It could be a threat. But if we do not set a limit, that does not mean that this completely open space will not be used. Perhaps the restriction has nothing to do with whether or not the money is used earlier. However, as I pointed out above, one of the possible solutions is to simply set a limit on advertising costs, which is spread over a calendar year. This is also the way to approach. There's always danger. But if you look at it as you put it, I do not think that the risk is that we are extending this time limit. The danger is, however, due to the great temptation to fill the public space.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U158	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U159	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Here today, on several occasions, the perception that the more money you spend, the better the result. If you look at the same fine table of party advertising costs in 2015, you can see that the Centre Party, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Social Democrats spent equally on advertising. According to the number of MPs, the election results are relatively different. But here's the question. Do you see such a development that the more intense the advertising, the more annoying it is, as we see now in the electronic media and on the Internet, in the media, the more likely a situation will arise where a person ignores it in the first place, it will create a block in front of it? How do you see the future in this sense and the promotion of elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U160	Thank you, dear questioner. In fact, in some way, both aspects have already been through the discussion. I pointed out that, with all this ban on outdoor advertising, one of the goals that apparently materialized was the release of public space, but it was realised during the active campaign period, not earlier. Certainly these 'house-sized posters' and all this turning over cause voters to become alienated, abandoned, maybe not going to elections, given up. There is certainly a danger. With regard to the first half of this line of reasoning, the link between the 2015 elections and the money and the result of the election, when I answered Krista Aru's question, I pointed out that in 2015 it was probably much smaller in the views of several parties than in previous years. But it does not give any guarantee that it will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U161	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Andres Herkel! The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U162	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Andres Herkelis is more thorough, and I'm not trying to compete in this category. The members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who were in this Chamber, too, were now able to ask the questions that they did not ask Mr Adams in the committee, so I do not think there is anything to open here in terms of content. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, listening to the initiator of the draft, whose representative was Jüri Adams, decided after the debate that on 14 November, including the discussion of the draft, it was also decided to propose that the first reading be closed (in this regard we had a consensus) and to set ten working days for the submission of amendments, i.e. that the deadline would be 28 November (an important day when the majority of the members of the Riigikogu will certainly be in the house) traditionally at 5.15 p.m., after my watch. Now I'm just gonna abuse your time for one minute, I'm almost like a negotiator too, which I'm not supposed to do, but then I won't come back here. My clear understanding is that there is more or less, in different forms, in this Chamber, but the common understanding is that this ban on outdoor advertising is out of date and that it should be stopped. As you have even understood, there are differences in spending, size, etc. But as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and rapporteur for the Commission, I am determined to be the kind of frontman in your draft so that perhaps by the 100th anniversary of the Republic, this bill would have become the law as much as it has become the law and should not be allowed to be disturbed by the draft law of the Free Party, and the coalition will present its and, in fact, the full view. So that's the approach at the end of the day. Let's get to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U163	Questions. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, thank you for supporting at least one aspect. But I immediately have a logical question as to whether the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has discussed and how the coalition intends to comply with the point contained in the coalition agreement, which is this: 'Let's make election campaigns ideas-based, not money- and volume-based'?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U165	Thanks! Within the framework of this law, there is certainly no proposal here in your draft. Whether they're coming for this bill, I can't afford it. But if you look at all the areas that we are trying to regulate here, none of them precludes coming up with ideas, it's election debates or the same slogans, either 1 square meters or 40 square meters, where the most important ideas can be written down. Maybe the whole surface shouldn't be spent on your nice chest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U166	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U167	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! My question is about your additional statement. Would you define what the coalition's true whole view is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U168	In my additional speech, I meant above all that I would try to find a common understanding across the hall and contribute to this draft. But you, who you are, or so you, are beautiful to say, who you are in politics, I don't know, for 140 years now, know that the usual opposition bill opposition is that the coalition always has a full view to offer. But we're not going to stand out on this one, we're going to help with your bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U169	With that answer, everything was said. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U170	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party has come into Estonian politics to change Estonia's political culture. One of our slogans is 'Let's get the nation back to the people! '. It has been called a populist slogan, but in fact, we have also completed a'state return' programme. It is a very large document, which consists of several links. Part of this is also the restoration of political competition or the 'normalisation' of political competition, the reduction of money in political campaigns and the reduction of their volume. The aim is to repair the system of Estonia's democratic state or state. This draft law on restriction of outdoor advertising is actually one very small step, but still an important step in the whole programme or the road we have taken. The coalition agreement states that electoral campaigns will be made content-based rather than money- and volume-based. That is one very good promise, but if we look back at the local elections campaign that just took place, we will see that there has actually not been one step in this direction. The campaigns were large and very voluminous, and the coalition parties had put a lot of money in it. The notion that money will gain power is regrettably common throughout Estonia. It's clear you can't do without the commercial. We need to spread our messages, we need to make it clear to people what we are doing, but it should be done in a reasonable and substantive form, not as laundry powder is advertised. Someone here earlier asked if it seemed that if there was a lot of advertising, it would have the opposite effect. Advertising psychology tells us that the more things you beat into your head, the more that knowledge or that brand stays in your subconscious mind and directs a person's behavior at the moment he has to make choices, precisely in the direction that this ad has been designed to pursue. It is clear today that the time limitation of outdoor advertising has not achieved its objective. It was good, but it happened the other way around. It is particularly sad that those who have less money for the election campaign, or new arrivals, have suffered the most, and the big old parties have won the most, who regrettably have also brought "criminal or semi-crime" money into politics. Today we can again read the details of the so-called plastic bag scandal of the Reform Party. Very often we have also seen public money misusing the Centre Party or another party. Our aim is still to end this understanding and also to give all the so-called old parties the opportunity, in a non-criminal way, to raise money to come to power and be... I'd like an extension.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U171	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U172	... in this fight, in essence, not with money to kill democracy. We have been told that what you do with regulations here could simply establish good practice on how to make an election campaign. Regrettably, I have to say from experience that good practice is something that works in societies with a deep political culture. Let me give you some examples of good practice. Some time ago, I tried to bring in good practice or lobbying rules. I was basically laughed out in this hall. It is particularly sad that one of the main authors of the good practice of the members of the Riigikogu Kaja Kallas participated in the last municipal elections as a decoy duck, i.e. he clearly deceived his voters, knowing that he would never, or at least now, as a result of these elections, do not go to the Tallinn Council. In other words, good practice is not an option in today's Estonian political situation. On the other hand, we like to do a lot of restraint in this Chamber. Lately, any restrictions have gone very well. If we are restricting, for example, alcohol advertising or tobacco advertising, for my sake, financial services advertising, we could also put a warning on political advertising that, dear voters, we warn you that a wrong decision can have an impact on society's health for a very long time. I am absolutely convinced that we cannot put such a warning in this situation either. For all those who have asked questions here today, I suggest that we make such proposals so that not only the time limit on political outdoor advertising is lifted, but that it also involves reducing the funding and volume of political campaigns and making these campaigns meaningful. Let us think about this and do not simply criticise our draft. We expect you to come up with good proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U173	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U174	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Personally, the Free Party is quite sympathetic to me. This idealism or the will to make things really better, more transparent and more honest is extremely sincere, I believe. I may be the youngest in this room, maybe several times younger than some experienced fellowship, but my idealism is a little smaller. With regard to the proposals that have just been proposed, they want to make the elections more equal and reduce the inequality between "large, rich parties" and younger, smaller parties, especially in the light of the fact that certain political parties take around half a million euros of taxpayers' money each month. Is that fair? I don't think that's fair. However, the proposed options are rightly criticised. After all, it has been said that the campaign will not be missed if there is no outdoor campaign for 40 days before the elections. It's just going elsewhere, it's going to other channels, be it the headlines of newspapers, mass television commercials, direct mails, etc. You can't blame me for that. The aim of every political power is to campaign, to bring its message to the voters, whatever the message. It's already the voter to assess whether or not he likes this message. If we use the slogan 'Strong Estonia' or 'Let's fire! ', then it's our choice. That is our choice, and whether the voter likes it or not is up to him. But it's not justified if I forbid a campaign. I therefore fully agree that the current restriction is unnecessary and creates new problems. This has also given rise to a very heavy workload for the police, who had to go out on a regular basis a few weeks before the elections, when a member of the so-called competition party with weaker nerves had made a panicky call to help him, he saw an outdoor ad somewhere. Then the policeman had to assess if it was a field commercial when it was flashing out of the window or not. But the same problem arises with this new restriction that the Free Party would like to do, I mean precisely this 1 square meter. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when this bill was on the table, the representative of the Free Party, Mr. Jüri Adams, was indeed a retired, experienced person with the best knowledge of the Constitution in this Chamber, was not able to answer the question of why this restriction is intended to be implemented. It is said to be a personal ambition or wishful thinking of a member of a group over long years, but he does not understand it. Nobody understood. It's just, if we set a limit of 1 square meter, this is the next perfect way to do this. I can push tens of square-foot posters side by side, and then maybe a member of the Free Party complains that you see Madison has some kind of big campaign in place, it violates the electoral law, then the policeman comes in and has to assess whether there are 5 or 10 centimeters between the posters, so they're not counted as one poster. Whoever appreciates it afterwards, and for what it takes, I don't get it. Another such thing is putting a cap on the campaign: 90 days before the elections, no more than half a million euros can be spent. Okay, I'm gonna do a mass post 20 days before the election, push a million euros down there, so every family gets my flyers, newspapers or anything else three times a day, do whatever it takes to order TV commercials. Who will, after checking how much each candidate on the list of political parties or electoral alliances made personal expenses, who put it under EUR 1000 and who put it at 3000? Who's gonna check these bills? Have you thought about what administrative burden this will create if we put a restriction on which it is very difficult to monitor compliance? I don't see any point in that. What's the purpose? The aim is, of course, to reduce inequalities. What's the solution? One of the options is where we have agreed with the Free Party: reducing the amount allocated from the state budget and thus reducing inequalities. I couldn't agree more. The taxpayer does not have to fatten political parties with EUR 5.4 million. Not at all. Nor could it be quite drawn, because then we would create a situation in Latvia where each oligarch goes to the door of a head office, as was the case at the door of a party in 2012 and was offered a pot of money somewhere. That, too, is a problem. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U175	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U176	We don't need that either. Therefore, the solution is that the parties themselves must start to worry that their members pay more membership fees. I think that no party in this Chamber is satisfied with how much its members pay for membership. There's a lot of people who haven't shown their face in years at a meeting, not to mention paying a membership fee. This is one of the tools for getting additional resources into your budget. Reducing the amount allocated from the state budget to political parties is the basic solution that I have already mentioned. The third solution is the search for private grants, which must be transparent, so that we know exactly which person donated to which party. It is perfectly normal for interest groups to support a party that supports their worldview. However, if, for example, we are to reduce the money allocated to political parties from the state budget, with which I fully agree, we should allocate additional funds to the Political Financing Monitoring Commission, who will have to check where the party money comes from, which are the channels from which they receive their campaign money. It must be transparent, and we must at least know that this money comes in the honest way. This will help eradicate political corruption, not just by creating two new pointless restrictions, although the original aim was to end the absurd situation of actually going past the outdoor campaign and making this massive campaign in other channels. Therefore, as far as I am aware, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which I myself was present at the meeting, has proposed that the first reading be stopped, but I am pretty sure that the second reading of this draft, if the draft is in this form, will not be completed. The only option is to make this draft edible for all political groups and to base itself on common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U177	On behalf of the Helmut Hallemaa Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U178	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This is another case when I have to say that I had no intention of coming to this remote control, but in the course of the debate, there was a desire to say the word. I've already explained my reasoning with questions. The main point is: indeed, the first part of this draft, i.e. the abolition of a pointless restriction on outdoor advertising, is excellent and probably also finds support. This weakness was brought out very nicely by my groupmate Valeri Korb. It is that, in fact, the time to participate in the elections is in part so different that we could really, I agree with Mr Herkel, also on the last day. But the main thing is still what I think the previous speaker said very well, that the Free Party is all sympathetic and the fight against political populism is good, but in fact there is also a great deal of political populism in this bill. I still think that this 1-square metre limit, which Mr Herkel, when speaking of, very well, referred to the historical connection, is not consistent with life. If the real areas that make sense to use, even the bus waiting pavilions, which are also used for all other adverts, are actually larger, then you should think about what is still the number of square meters that are in line with reality. One more thing comes out very nicely of the explanatory memorandum, though, in terms of financial volumes. The election campaign is being conducted in very different ways. Clearly, no one is going to put out their program on one square metre, and there is going to be a slogan. It must have been used by all parties. There is a particular slogan or a sentence that sums up the entire programme, and from there the person is directed to the more detailed content of the programme, including the entire electoral programme. Election programmes also have very different options. One is a sympathetic seven - step option, where these things are brought out in larger blocks and moved on from there. These things aren't really single-table. This introduction of EUR 500000 in particular is, in my opinion, completely unthinkable. The electoral alliances were also mentioned here. They are allowed only in local elections, which means that parties already have, in essence, 80 electoral alliances across Estonia, if we compare these things across Estonia. If we really start comparing local governments, we can compare these things. This line doesn't make sense. In fact, it has also not been considered how private costs of individuals or candidates are taken into account in these amounts. After all, they are also reflected in the expenses of political parties, and these things will not be known until after the elections. These things cannot be limited in this way. After all, on the proposal of the Committee on the Financing of Political Parties, they are no longer separately withdrawn, but they are looking at the costs of political parties during certain periods, on a quarterly basis. That's a life-confident summary. It certainly needs the support of the bill at one point; in other points it can become fatal and processing can be very long. I understood from the answers of a good colleague, Mr Andres, that I, too, have read from the answers of my own, in this 500000 case, have not very seriously thought through all the nuances. So power for us! It is certainly a good thing to remove the restriction on outdoor advertising, to work very hard with other parts of the bill, and these are not things that are done with simple solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-14_U179	There's no more calls. On the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the first reading of draft 504 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 28 November. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.51 p.m.
