ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 3rd working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session. Today there is a reason to wish Thomas Väinas a good new year of life. Is there a desire to pass on enquiries or draft laws? Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U2	Mr President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I have an inquiry to report to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas on behalf of eight members of the Free Party. This is about the nonsense of administrative reform. For example, Vastseliina, where the so-called voluntary merger has resulted in a number of geographically and historically illogical mergers. The councils have made their decisions, on the one hand, by forcing the whip, which is a claim of 5 000 inhabitants, and, on the other hand, by forcing the carrot, which is entitled to financial compensation. We want to know from the Prime Minister what he thinks of the future of Võrumaa Vastseliina municipality as head of government. As we all know, Vastseliina has historically been the heart of a much larger parish than the present municipality. However, the current Vastseliina parish is clearly overpowered by the requirement of 5,000 inhabitants, even if the historical boundaries are restored. The various parts of the historical parish have joined other accession areas. The possible merger of Vastseliina municipality with the municipality of Orava in Põlva County would not save anything. There will probably be a forced merger with Võhandu rural municipality, where Vastseliina will be the periphery. That is what we are asking the Prime Minister four questions about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U3	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. This procedure is decided by the Management Board on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. Now, please, do the presence check! Eighty-four members of the public are present, no 17th.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U4	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on the 'Constitution of the Parliament's Problem Committee for the Development of Developments of State Reform' submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Pulbica Union. In the name of the initiators, please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Ivari Padari!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, the Social Democratic Party Group, the Centre Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union have submitted a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Parliament's Problem Committee for the development of developments in state reform'. Speaking about this possible committee of problems, the composition has been taken into account where one member and one alternate would be represented of all the political groups of the Riigikogu. The tasks of the Commission would be to monitor and analyse the implementation and achievement of the objectives of the restructuring of administrative reform and regional administration; to propose the reorganisation of the public authority organisation with a review of the functions and tasks performed by the public authority; to assess the impact and sustainability of the activities carried out in order to achieve the objective of restructuring the public authority organisation; to propose to the Riigikogu and the Government of the Republic. The Commission shall have the right to request from the Government of the Republic and the authorities of the executing State the information necessary for its work, as well as to request the participation of officials and other persons of the government authorities in a meeting of a member of a committee of a Member of the Government of the Republic in order to obtain information on matters falling within the authority of a Member of the Government and to invite officials and other persons of government to attend a meeting of the Commission for information and advice. The Commission shall submit a final report on its activities to the Riigikogu on the closure of its activities. The mandate of the Commission runs until the end of the mandate of the XIII Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U6	Thank you. You have questions too. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U7	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress Ivari! Would you let me know if there are interim reports and if so, what they might look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U8	Interim reports must certainly be discussed by the possible Commission, which will meet. I believe that there may also be a need to draw up interim reports on certain parts of the work, but how exactly and if at all, it is difficult for me to say this at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U9	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! I recall that about a year ago Vilja Savisaar, who had already left the Riigikogu, tried to form a problem committee to solve a very serious problem. Talk about HIV and AIDS issues. That was not the case at the time, because the coalition, including the Social Democrats, found that there was no money and no new problem committees could be formed. Is there much more money now with the help of the sorcerer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U11	Thanks for asking. There must be political will to set up all analogous problem committees. It all depends on whether or not the Riigikogu has enough political will to do so. In this case, the political parties in the government coalition have found that it is necessary for the Commission to analyse the issues of state reform. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U12	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Riigikogu formed the Centre for Development Monitoring. How seriously have you come to think about involving the Centre for Development in the work of the problem committee, and how do you even see this relationship developing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U14	Thanks for asking. I find it very difficult to answer in this sense that I am a waitress for this particular draft in this case. However, since this issue, the creation of this committee of problems, has been up for some month and a half, I have examined what has already been done in this area. And actually, there is quite a lot of, and quite a lot of, the basic or basic material to be dealt with in the Commission. However, all of this would require intelligent analysis and implementation in both the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Finance and other government institutions. At government level, a number of decisions have been taken which are now being generally implemented. You mentioned this so-called basic work, which has been done at the level of the Riigikogu, which must certainly be taken as a basis for the implementation of decisions. It would be extremely irrational not to use all the work that has already been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U15	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I understand that there's no point in killing the messenger and not even beating it, but since it's a coalition initiative, maybe you're talking a few words about what your vision is. What reformed country is ultimately being reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U17	This topic arose after the conclusion of the coalition agreement. The Coalition Agreement strongly states that state reform needs to be actively pursued. Your question was what is the formula for state reform, what is the theorem underlying state reform? There isn't much of a formula. A quote by Jüri Raidla, which I read here, may be suitable for the state reform. This may best sum up what the reform of the state is. I quote Jüri Raidlat: 'I understand that state reform is a reorganisation of a public authority organisation with a revision of the functions and services performed by the public authorities and an adjustment of the mechanisms of action. In order to avoid ambiguity, I would add that public authorities both concern central and local authorities, which is why the administrative reform is part of the reform of the state. ' In this sense, we can talk about administrative reform and state reform together. And we're talking about things that actually come up very quickly. In fact, there is no government cabinet meeting where administrative reform and state reform decisions do not need to be taken. Let's be honest, it's pretty difficult for coalition ambassadors to follow this whole decision-making process. The fact that today all the political groups represented in the Riigikogu have been given the opportunity to be informed more about what is already being done and what is being planned is, in my opinion, very right and good. If public reform activities are to be planned, this should undoubtedly be done in view of the fact that any coalition is a coalition, there are certain activities that must definitely be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U18	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I ask you this: what do you think is the most realistic result of this committee's work? As a result, what clearly changes apart from the fact that a number of rows are written on the paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U20	I think these are the realistic results. In the summer, we'll have free weeks, and there will be no decisions by the executive that we don't understand. Then something might happen that we, as members of the Riigikogu, are asked: 'But what is going on there? " Last summer's example was the subject of the Road Administration. Then you will see who should be dealing with these matters in the Riigikogu, which commission directly. In my opinion, this issue has spread to three or four Commission areas. This is an example that we have a direct need to explain to our voters what decisions and what options are in this whole process, which we can call the common denominator 'State reform'. This is a pretty important subject for me. There are undoubtedly issues that are so-called sitting between the two committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U21	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U22	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! During the previous coalition, a state reform group was working through the summer. We formulated six central objectives for the implementation of state reform. You said in the committee that only one of these six will actually come: an efficient and flexible state apparatus. Why are the other five excluded now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U23	Thanks for asking. Once again, I cannot give exhaustive answers on what the Commission is finally going to deal with. However, if I look at this whole issue and at the Commission today, and if we also look at what preliminary work has been done in the working group that was working with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and where the draft principles of state reform have probably come from, you will probably think about it, then we will see that it is chapter 4 on the organisation of public administration that is pressing quickly. The way it is now is that action is already in progress. This is where the question of the Vastseliina municipality was raised. The possibilities available from Vastseliina and Orava are also included in the Administrative Reform Act. But I see opportunities now, not for the next municipal elections, but rather for the next municipal elections, when some of the most appropriate steps in the course of administrative reform have perhaps been improved in the next phase of the reform. In my opinion, the most sensible unit is the Great Võrumaa. This committee should certainly discuss how to proceed with the administrative reform. But I am not a member of this committee, I stand before you as a representative of the initiator of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U24	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! It must be acknowledged that one small mess with this is exactly what both the government and the new coalition are aiming at in the area of state reform and on which the focus of this Commission is focused. Is there a desire to address major and long-term issues, including constitutional institutions, in their restructuring? Are there any proposals to update our constitution, or is there a desire to deal with simple and popular issues such as the opening hours of the Road Administration offices in some areas? However, can you explain once again whether the objective is that this committee deals with major issues and assigns tasks to the government, or whether it will rather analyse and comment on the proposals made by the government in the area of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U26	Thanks for asking. I can only say my own personal opinion. My personal opinion is that both sides are undoubtedly important. I very much hope that all the so-called smaller executive decisions have been made sensibly and have in some respects been framed. There should be a bigger picture of where and how everything is going to happen in Estonia, in which cities will be offered public services in the future. I do not see any possibility that the action of this committee will not go beyond what might be called constitutional amendments. In my opinion, the work of this committee could last until the end of this Riigikogu. The constitutional changes must also fit within the framework set. I have studied across Estonia from a number of respected opinion leaders what the reform of the state should be, and a large joint part of their opinions is clear: the Riigikogu must be smaller. It's that simple! I'm sure the debates will get out there. I do not see the possibility that state reform can be dealt with constructively unless big decisions are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U27	Tanel Winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U28	Thank you. Dear waitress, Let me remind you that the previous coalition has already decided that Parliament must adopt the fundamentals of state reform. To this end, a working group on state reform was set up within the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has done quite a lot of work. Could the new Committee on Problems take advantage of this work and do you see any cooperation with e-Estonia's support group, for example? This would perhaps provide the basis for reform of the state apparatus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U29	Thanks for asking. As I replied to my colleague, Mr Ernits, the work that has been done on the basis of the state reform is certainly one of the materials that the Commission can base itself on. When we talk about e-Estonia and the reform of the state, these are interrelated things, and it is undoubtedly necessary to cooperate in this area. Once again, there are a number of decisions already taken by the government, there are a number of analyses at the disposal of the government that have been carried out. All of this can be taken as a basis. And the public debates organised in the Riigikogu, where we have talked about these matters, must also be taken into account. I'd like to finally get to a reasonable state order. Not that our regime is very unreasonable now, but time demands and time needs to go along and things need to be improved. It's a time requirement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U30	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, The working time of the committee ends with the working time of the XIII Riigikogu. Since it is expected that the country will not be ready by then, did the government coalition not entertain the idea that this committee could be permanently changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U31	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U32	My colleague, Mr Aas, also asked how broad the Commission's area of work could be. I think this area of work will be so wide that the workload of the permanent committees of the Riigikogu will also be discussed. Maybe there's something we can fix and make it better. When we talk about the future of the Riigikogu, I think that discussing the future of the Riigikogu could begin with analysing the internal work of the Riigikogu. If, from this point of view, there is a proposal that the Committee on State Reform should be permanent, then we cannot rule that out. But somehow I wouldn't want it to be such a permanent activity where everyone has legs in the air and is being reformed for reform. At one point, I would like some things to be in place: the administrative arrangements would be in place, the state arrangements would be in place. I don't want respected officials from the Riigikogu to the Riigikogu to have their feet in the air all the time and they don't know what's going on and what's not going on. Such a cease-fire could come. That's right!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U33	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U34	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good waitress! It has been said in the media that Ivari Padar is the chairman of this new committee, and I therefore think that the questions that are being asked to you are very legitimate. Looking at the explanatory memorandum, I am concerned that the last one is the possibility to initiate legislative amendments if necessary. Will the Commission become a government pendant, or would it be the one who manages the government's activities? If we are here on the main topic of monitoring and analysing administrative reform, then we are several steps behind the government either so or so. What is the role of this committee? Is it to guide a change in the governance of the country, which should actually include a change in our economic environment, because it is very important for the effectiveness of the state reform? The IT sector is also important. It's all connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U35	Thank you for your question. You have now also raised the question that, when we talk about the work of this potential committee, how many stratifications there may be. For example, you included yourself in the economic direction. There may be a lot of stratifications that can be contained in these frames, but after all, nothing can be done. For this reason, I think that the reorganisation of the public authority organisation should begin. These things are just running faster right now. Hopefully, we will also be able to move forward with the ambitions that will be addressed in the future. In view of this committee, I will say that there are currently six political groups in the Riigikogu. There would be three representatives of the coalition and three representatives of the opposition in the Commission. So it certainly wouldn't be a roller coaster from this committee. It would undoubtedly be so that the Commission's decisions could be very carefully considered by all its members. It was said here that perhaps the mandate of the committee would end with the end of the mandate of this Riigikogu. I believe that then it would be that if this Riigikogu was to complete its work, representatives of all political groups would have a very clear understanding of what has taken place in the administration of the state during this period, what changes have been made and what tasks should be passed on to the next Riigikogu or to the next coalitions. Since the force ratio would be exactly 3:3, I hope that this committee will do everything in its power to ensure that decisions are as robust as possible and are able to guide the process of state reform. But the end result would still depend on a good spirit of cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U36	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U37	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! When reforming the state, it is certainly important that the country does not lose sight of the people and that the people receive the necessary services in the best possible way. When we discussed this in the Commission, you also admitted that one of the best examples so far is the reorganisation of the Road Administration's car registration centres. I could tell you I really liked your way of thinking. It was certainly not just about regulating opening hours. This was a much greater change and a non-human reform agenda. Are you also saying here that it is important for you, as for me, that when we implement the reform, we consider that there is a country, that regional policy, regional development, is at the forefront, not always and only efficiency?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U38	Thanks for asking. Indeed, it is possible to contrast efficiency and regional interests by carrying out a state reform. We want to call the current reforms a state reform. But once again,'reform' is a very unholy word here. Reforms were carried out in Estonia during the last Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia. All other activities are major or less in-depth restructuring. But well, if the word reform likes people, then God forbid. All right! But it's indisputable that scissors are formed. The effectiveness of government is undeniably a challenge. The number of people of working age in Estonia is decreasing and expenditure on the public sector needs to be reduced. On the other hand, the regional dimension is really at stake. Services must be available everywhere and Estonia should be a diverse country, not just the face of two centres. And now I say one thing: I consider it extremely important to strengthen the so-called 'backgrounds'. It's about the county centers, the strengthening of the county centers. As a general rule, this must be the case, and we should be very careful that we adhere to this principle. Up to the point that, at one point, we are developing administrative units the size of the current counties. That's usually the case. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U39	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! If we focus on an effective state apparatus, we come to the Riigikogu. If we were to work on the actual drafting of drafts rather than submit government drafts, the Riigikogu could even increase. Unfortunately, we've turned into a rubber stamp, and the rubber stamp doesn't have to be that big. From your point of view or from your point of view, could the Riigikogu begin to reduce? Can we come up with a proposal like this? Jüri Raidla's ten proposals for state reform are the first.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U41	If I wanted to be a very popular guy and look on the front page of every page, I could come up with a great number and fly. But basically, as I would like to say in a previous reply, we should first and foremost examine the tasks of the Riigikogu, the duties of committees, the burden on committees. It is clear that the current situation is somewhat different than it was 25 years ago. And there should be a conclusion on what is the optimal Riigikogu: is the optimal Riigikogu, for example, less members of the Riigikogu and more assistants and advisers to do more substantive work? I don't have a very clear answer right now. There's a whole series of buts and questions in my head, just like yours. I hope that the work of this committee will provide answers to a number of questions concerning the future functioning of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U42	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U43	Thank you. I ask what will be the administrative capacity and support of this committee. As a minister, I have been dealing with this area for some time and we had a small team of at least 10 people there, but a very effective team who did this job well, I believe. There are probably no such opportunities in the Riigikogu, but there is nothing. Are there people who can help organize this work? Is there any budget money to order analyses and other studies from outside this house, and how is this work organisation even planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U44	Thank you, very good question. As I said in previous answers, there is already a lot of material that wants to be analyzed. In the Riigikogu, of course, it is extremely difficult to compete with teams of ministries in administrative terms. But when we talk about this Commission, where there are supposedly two jobs, we can effectively analyse all the material that has already been discussed in the ministries. That's a lot of material. Of course, there is also the eternal problem of my colleague, Peeter Ernits, who asked in this key, what is this Riigikogu, whether the Riigikogu is one big rubber stamp or is an alternative to executive power, the legislator. It is clear that the Riigikogu should understand very clearly that once the law has been passed, what will result from it, for example, from implementing acts. If there is such a commission, the Riigikogu will familiarise itself with these matters and will certainly be a good advisor to the ministries in making one or another decision. But yes, the question of whether the Riigikogu can be a 'competent alternative to executive power' in all matters is difficult. It's not that easy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U45	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Murphy's law says if you want to kill any idea, you set up a committee. I've experienced in my life that this is a very correct observation. I would point out that we have a Minister of Public Administration with his apparatus. We also have some sort of social reform Radar or whatever it is called, and we have a whole parliament with our committees. And most importantly, if the coalition really is planning a credible state reform, then the coalition will have ministries to assign starting tasks to develop plans. Everything can be written into a coalition agreement and brought here to the Riigikogu for discussion and approval or rejection. Unfortunately, at the moment when I listen to these answers, I get the impression that one Commission is being set up simply because the Commission is being promised to someone and someone is also being allowed to be head of the Commission. I'm sorry if I'm wrong! Are you gonna confirm it or disprove it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U47	Listening to everything you've said, I want to say one more thing. All of this really exists, and still it is that, as read through, all the things that have been presented to the cabinet, all the action plans that have been drawn up as a result of administrative reform and state reform, I dare to confirm that at the level of the members of the Riigikogu there is little understanding and information about all of this. I do think that if there were to be one person from each political group in this committee, I, as the representative of the opposition party, would be very pleased if I had a constant opportunity to get information on what is going to happen and how it is going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U48	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In one previous reply, you said that the word'reform' should not be sucked. But don't be afraid of it. In the last elections, the Estonian people most supported the Reform Party and in this sense could go hand in hand with the Estonian people. But my question is, can't this possible problem committee become such an operational management body? And does the information not move in the coalition, so that a new Commission is needed so that Parliament can get the results of the analyses and also information on the changes ahead of it in time? The word 'problem' has the same meaning in Estonian as 'problem'. We're worried about the kids and we're worried about everything. Can't we look at things in a positive light? The number of taxpayers is decreasing, but it's not worth throwing a gun in the bush. We just have to deal with topical issues every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U50	In answer to your question, the Reform Party in Võru County did not win, and it could have been a mistake in a whole range of counties. In this sense, do not associate this'reform' word with the Reform Party, our long-standing respected coalition partner. I also pay tribute to the Reform Party for the fact that it took 16 years, but at least during the previous government, very active action in this area began. By the way, I'm the person who was at the meeting when the President of the Reform Party told the Chairman of the Pro Patria Union in 2001 that there would be no administrative reform now, that the presidential elections would be held. But you asked if information had moved between coalition parties. As the previous government practice has shown, yes, it hasn't moved. In the middle of the hay season, decisions came up that they had to ask me what it was. I said I don't know. And it still tends to be that information does not move, all the more so since the pace of administrative reform is very rapid. This pace is due to the decisions we have taken during the previous coalition. And in autumn, the municipal elections will be held.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U51	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U52	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! Having looked at the views on what the committee would be dealing with, I have come up with this question. Why can't the lead committee be one of Parliament's current committees to work with other committees? This committee could involve the necessary specialists, ministerial staff and other experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U53	Undoubtedly, that would be one option. However, when the coalition agreement was concluded, the coalition's parties felt that it would not be enough so that we could not put enough emphasis on it. That's why I'm doing this report today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U54	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is based on your claim that members of the Riigikogu's understanding of state reform is not very good. What is your statement based on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U56	There's no way I've said it's a bad idea. But let's just say that there's a huge amount of information that moves in this area. Let us also see how quickly the executive must react now, make decisions. In practice, many things are not discussed at the level of the Riigikogu with sufficient seriousness. And when we, ladies and gentlemen, go to our constituents in our electoral areas, we sometimes find ourselves embarrassed because we cannot explain the decisions made. It's not a very pleasant feeling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U57	Urve Tiidus, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U58	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear waitress, I understood from the questioners that you would most likely be chairman of this committee. Very reasonable! Could it be that, in a few years' time, we can say that the Estonian regime is a little like Mr Padar? But the second question I also have is: as a small country, does Estonia have an example in this area from Europe or from somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U59	I do not know whether Ivar Padar would be chairman of this committee or not. This is still the subject of the following options. But I'm sure my grandchildren would be very happy if they ever heard them say that this state reform was also Ivari Padar's face. I say that there is not really a beginning or an end to the reform of the state. The country has to change all the time, keep going. What was the second question? [[There's an answer in the hall.]] Uh-huh. You see, this example is very complicated. Take, for example, the subject of administrative reform. Latvia did well to implement the administrative reform during the last recession. Of course, it is there to see if anything went wrong, whether something went wrong. One can't copy the situation in any country. Latvia's peripheralization increased completely. The administrative units came big, the forces disappeared from the smaller settlements. That's right. But the experiences of all countries need to be explored. Well, I guess there's a way to get underfoot everywhere. The Lithuanians have, as far as I know, a two-tier administrative reform, two levels. At the same time, I know from my experience and practice that other countries have found, when assessing our administrative organisation, that we have very beautiful things to show us, with which we are more of an example. I remember an example I've been involved with for years, this is the Office of Agricultural Registers and Information. For years, the Agricultural Registers and Information Board has been operating in Estonia, with administrative costs accounting for 3 to 4% of the sums paid out, while figures for the following places will start at 7% in Europe. In fact, we have a lot of things to be very proud of and that give us reason to say that we've managed well here. We've done a lot of good things. This does not mean, of course, that we should stop now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U60	Honourable waitress, there are no more questions for you right now. I would like to ask Peeter Ernitsa, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U61	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the creation of a new possible committee on Tuesday, 17 January. Almost all members of the Commission were present, except for three. Ivari Padar told the Commission almost everything that we have here today. He explained that coalition partners have come to the understanding that it is best to set up a problem committee to work through developments in state reform. The task of the Commission would be to monitor and analyse the implementation of the administrative reform and the achievement of the objectives of the restructuring of the regional administration, to propose the reorganisation of the public authority, together with the review of these tasks, to assess the impact and sustainability of the activities carried out, and then to propose to the Riigikogu and the government to initiate the necessary legislative changes. The rapporteur, Ms Padar, pointed out that this year would be a very tight time in terms of all possible decisions concerning the further stages of administrative reform up to the state reform. He found the formula for state reform very difficult to find and, of course, he came back to Jüri Raidla and his ten commandments. He also stated that the Commission would have six members. I'm not going to tell you everything, but Ivar Padar also said that state reform is necessary to create a bigger plan. Otherwise, ministries and other public authorities will each come up with their own reform agenda and they may not match each other. Member of the Commission Mart Nutt asked how much legal space the future state reform should include, for example, whether it should fit into the current Constitution or whether it should change the Constitution. Ivari Padar stated that the future committee should decide where to draw the line when dealing with different topics, and that the proposed changes should all reach the table of the future committee, including those concerning the amendment of the constitution and the work of the Riigikogu itself. I recalled the same steering group on state reform that was working on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs since the summer of May and asked whether this committee had any intention of taking these lights into account. Ivari Padar noted that, of course, our mid-term report in October would be discussed, as would many other materials. But he stressed that not everything can be dealt with in the implementation of the reform of the state. In this way, the Commission should focus on only one, fourth, chapter of this new central issue in our interim report on a flexible and effective state apparatus. So a large part of the steam should go into discussions on a flexible and efficient state apparatus. Mr Adams, my colleague, asked what the budget would be for the committee to be set up. It doesn't turn out from the record that I said it should be EUR 200000. But Ivar Padar couldn't answer, and we asked wiser people to comment on it. And I have in my hands a paper to prevent questions from coming from the Financial Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu. In fact, I remember correctly: when we formed the committee of Mr Vilja Toomas and another committee here, there was talk of EUR 200000. But I was wrong about EUR 200000 for the two committees. And according to the paper of the Financial Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, it is worth 102200 euros for this one committee. In this amount, the salaries and special allowances of the chairman, vice-chairman and officials serving the Commission would be EUR 78000, the economic costs would be EUR 24200. This year, two problem committees have been assigned EUR 200000 from the state budget. And if you count a little bit, it turns out that there is still a deficit of EUR 4400. I do not know whether the Chairman of the Riigikogu or any minister should give up one month's salary or whether we will find this amount elsewhere. So much to prevent possible questions. Jüri Adams, a colleague, felt that it would be good if the draft at first reading in the Riigikogu plenary had the answer to this question, and now you have it. My colleague, Mart Nutt, pointed out that the cost of the committee of concern would certainly be higher than the only costs associated with the chairman of the committee. There is a need to order a wide range of expertise, which certainly cannot be done by public officials, as the expertise should be independent. And the services of independent experts are more expensive. Consequently, for this EUR 24200, my colleague, Mart Nut, does not believe that a competent expert opinion can be commissioned. Ivari Padar noted that officials of the Ministry of Finance have so far produced some pretty bold ideas on the subject of state reform. Mr Nutt continued to argue that the interest of the Ministry of Finance is to design the so-called "super ministry" from the Ministry of Finance and that all other ministries should be subject to it. Ivari Padar found that the first phase of the creation of the super ministry concerned real estate in particular: the four ministries were placed under a single roof. And it's a pilot project. My colleague, Helmut Hallemaa, expressed doubts that if the reform of the register offices of the Road Administration last summer was not successful due to very poor impact analyses or other reasons, then perhaps the reform of the state will repeat the same. Ivari Padar replied that the reason for a possible failure may be that different laws are intended to capture different regions of Estonia and that reforms have so far been very chaotic. In his view, a state reform in such a chaotic situation that we are in could put something more secure into place. The Commission's aim would be to limit chaos. And the first specific topic of the state reform could be the future of rural governments, what will be the horizontal level that arises between local governments and state authority. Whether this horizontal level would be represented as a regional authority in four or six regions, Ivari Padar could not say that. There is also the possibility that the Ministry of Finance will set up appropriate departments, which will be in the centre of each county. Anyway, there's a lot of questions. Colleagues Hallemaa found that county cooperation is an important issue, that is how it is, and that the provision of various services could take place at county level. One possibility is that supervision will be carried out by the Chancellor of Justice. Ivari Padar pointed out that since the State Budget Act is already being drafted and is very closely linked to the task of local governments and the distribution of money, the reform of the state is very, very urgent. So we are dealing with a very urgent matter right now. My colleague, Jüri Adams, pointed out that he did not see anything that would require the Commission to be present in the duties of the committee of concern mentioned in the draft. This also came out repeatedly on today's issues. According to Adams, it would be sufficient to set up a working group with a specific permanent committee to carry out these tasks. I was interested in what would be the final output of the emerging problem committee in what form it will be presented to us, the Riigikogu. Mr Padar replied that a final report would be drawn up on the closure of the Committee on Problems, which was the result of our Rules of Procedure Act. According to Ivari Padar, the problem committee should probably take a number of decisions in the meantime, which can also be called a report. I asked if the Committee on Problems would bring the implementation of the state reform to the discussion as a matter of national importance also in the Riigikogu's plenary session, as the task force on state reform, which worked through the summer at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has proposed. Ivari Padar replied that the issue of state reform would, as a matter of pre-requisite, be discussed in our plenary at this session. In the end, it was decided to propose, after an hour and a half, that the draft be placed on the agenda of the meeting on 24 January (this was a consensual decision), that the first reading be closed (by 6 votes to 1, with 1 abstention; Jüri Adams and impartial Jaak Madison were opposed), that the deadline for amendments be set at 3 February (also a consensual decision) and that I be appointed rapporteur. This too was decided by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U62	The first question is put by Andres Herkel to the co-rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I read in the fifth point of the decision that the mandate of the Commission should continue until the end of the mandate of this Riigikogu. At the same time, it can be assumed quite firmly that such committees will not work at a time when the main problem that politicians are dealing with is the electoral campaign. How do you feel about that? Did the session also discuss the possibility that the Commission could present a final report in the second half of 2018 and then close the work nicely so that there would be no feeling that such a committee must exist in each Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U64	Thank you for your question. This issue was not discussed. Many things were discussed, most of which I introduced. It was said that as soon as this Riigikogu ended, a point would be put. But that's all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U65	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U66	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Was it reflected in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that Parliament really wants to deal with state reform as a whole? Was there any motivation or breath in it, or is it a pity to say, wishing to create posts? Did you feel that breath or not? I'm afraid otherwise it's gonna be another government pendant that doesn't create new value. We need to create a new value to move forward with the reform of the state. Does Parliament have this wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U67	Thanks for the question, good boy. We are both among the six people who worked on the subject during the summer, and whether there was any breath, you could ask the same question. You know it was, too. Having searched this breath during the summer while others were resting, it seems to me that there wasn't much of it. But maybe it's because you and I have been more involved. At the same time, the will is, and by the signs I cannot say, I am not Igor Mang or the psychic behind the desire to set up a committee, whether it is intended to be created in order to get a wage supplement for anyone. We have to act, that's clear. As a maximist, I had the impression that the focus was on the task of ensuring the efficient and flexible state apparatus that we proposed. The rest of the points wouldn't really be focused. I would see much more tasks ahead of me, but two years is not a long time and it would be good if this committee were at least to be set up. My point of view is that. I don't know what else to say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U68	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U69	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Was the commission also discussing ordering a possible report to determine whether it was necessary to set up a committee of concern?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U70	Thank you for your question. No, it wasn't discussed. So much was discussed that, for EUR 24200, we could have expert analyses and reports drawn up, but, as I mentioned, my colleague Mart Nutt, who is an old fish in the Riigikogu, thought it was too little money, for which there are no adequate reports. I don't know if the money's too low or not. But yes, there was no such questioning in the Commission within an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U71	Thank you, honored waitress. No further questions for you. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? On behalf of Jüri Adams Estonian Free Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U72	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ernits, mentioned that I voted against this draft. That's right. What are the reasons why I voted against? It is certainly not that I believe that the Riigikogu should not deal with this issue. The reason for my vote against was that I am not convinced that the form that we are being offered is the best and most sensible way to deal with this issue. In this composition of the Riigikogu, I have tried quite systematically to oppose what is expressed in Estonian by the image that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp. I would like to give the Riigikogu back the lost roles that once existed, but now have changed. I do not see that the draft we are debating today would produce a positive result in this respect. However, we will do with this draft and the accompanying draft, which is on the agenda on Thursday and will talk about the second problem committee, a little about the history of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure. When the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu were adopted in 1992, one political decision was that there are quite a few permanent committees in the Riigikogu and that, if necessary, various ad hoc bodies are set up. The initial starting point was that there are ten permanent committees in the Riigikogu. These were supplemented in the following years by three special committees to carry out various supervisory functions. They differ from the permanent committees in that there is equal representation of all political groups, which means that non-attached parliamentarians are as good as not able to participate in such committees. After joining the European Union, a commission was formed in the Riigikogu, which, according to the acronym, is called the ELAK, the European Union Affairs Commission. So there are 14 committees in total, and the question before us is whether this 14 is now a limit or not a limit. About a year ago, two attempts were made in this Chamber of the Riigikogu to form committees of concern. Formally, they were like problem committees, but the idea was that they would remain like this until the end of this Riigikogu's mandate, i.e. until the beginning of March 2019. The Riigikogu rejected these ideas. People's representatives Mikko and Savisaar-Toomas were carrying ideas back then. Now the same idea has brought before us a new coalition of government and the content is exactly the same: the creation of two new committees in the Riigikogu. If we know now that we have 14+2 committees, then this means that the next Riigikogu has 14 plus, I don't know, some x-number committee. In any case, this x is going to be greater than 2. That is the content of the current problem. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U73	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U74	We have a number of vices in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, including the cost benefits, that we, as members of the Riigikogu, have become slaves of a group and that we have been deprived of the right to say in most of this Chamber. And now we're going to add another vice. I think that the members of the Free Party will probably table an amendment to this draft, the content of which is that the committees of this type should certainly not work in the Riigikogu until the expiry of the term of office of the members of the Riigikogu. There is no reason to believe that one such Commission could not do its job in, for example, a year or a shorter time. So shifting the deadline is one of our proposals. Ivari Padar, a representative of the people, said first of all that there is political will here. And that's right! What, though, is the content of this political will? One aspect is that there is a political will to waste money. The current government will undoubtedly go down in the history of Estonia by being a cool government of wasting money compared to previous governments. They have enough money and spend it in every possible and impossible way. It has been said that this committee, together with the Commission to be decided on Thursday, would cost around EUR 200000 per year. The same result can certainly be achieved without such a cost of money. So I invite you to think about it. In 2015, when I had the opportunity to enter into negotiations on the formation of the then government coalition as a representative of the Free Party, I heard a lot of interesting things I didn't know before. Among other things, representatives of the Reform Party, who were later ministers and are now in this Chamber, had such a common joke or a humour that if any of us said that it was an idea to spend taxpayers' money on something, they said: 'No, it is not like that. Taxpayers' money is only the money that will remain in the hands of taxpayers after they have paid their taxes. ' Especially the repeated repetition of this joke, Jürgen Ligi. I'll probably remember his lousy laugh for the rest of my life. Why do we have to go this way? Let us do the work that we need to do, but let us do it in a sensible, Estonian way without spending money pointlessly and without always creating additional committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U75	Mart Helme as representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U76	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It was quite a fun listening, and the idea that occurred in this connection was that the left had always criticised the right-wing for the fact that the right-wing had grinded the country into a terrible thinness. Now we see a clear attempt to fatten this country up again, creating all kinds of committees, spending taxpayers' money. And what do we get in return? I can take the poison, unfortunately, the Chancellery of the Riigikogu has not put the poison pot on the remote control so that I can take the poison, so that no villa is born there. This was also evident by listening to the answers to the questions now that there is no vision, there is no stated objective to be reached, which issues will be resolved. Is it intended to solve the issues of state governance at the top level, i.e. whether it is necessary to change the structure of government, merge ministries or subtract ministries, reduce the number of officials or I do not know what to do? There is no vision, there is no starting point, and there is no goal that should be reached, neither is there. But we create a committee, we create a commission under Murphy's law that does nothing really and rolls nicely for days until the elections. And we'll see what happens after the election. During the elections, we share promises, talk about how huge grandiose plans are being developed in the Commission to make Estonia big again, just like Trump in America. And after the elections, it turns out that Estonia cannot really be made big, because there is still no money left for it. People go away, people are disappointed, people don't even come out in elections and dance on in the new cycle, as it has been for quite a long time. So, respectables, first of all, make it clear to everyone in this Chamber and to the public as a whole what you want to do, what you want to achieve after just state reform. What is the reform of the state? Define what a state reform is! So let us start thinking further, and maybe then it will also make sense to spend some EUR 100000 to support this committee. But in this form, there is no point, and let's just say, as Mika Waltar Sinuhe says in this great book: 'Your story is like the buzzing of flies in my ears. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U77	Urmas Kruuse, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U78	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, After this speech, it is nice to continue. The Reform Party Group and the Reform Party certainly support the idea of sustainability in the country. As far as state reform is concerned, no matter what we call it, the number of people who pay taxes to the Estonian state is decreasing, and we must take this into account in one way or another. We have heard words here that Parliament wants to get rid of the rubber seal. But if it succeeds in this way, I dare to doubt that, especially knowing how much money has been allocated to the work of this committee. This leads to one thought: If you only have the will, but the instruments are missing, you cannot achieve the goal. I agree with what Mr Adams said that a clearer outcome could be achieved if the Commission's duration was clearly defined, as well as the specific tasks or objectives that the work of this committee seeks to achieve. At the moment, all of this may simply remind us of a ticking clock, which may not stop before the expiry of its term of office. But even if that watch stops, no one may notice it if we implement it in the Commission's work as planned. Of course, any discussion about what our country should be is welcome, but it should be based on need. Whatever it is, we have to be busy every day. It is now proposed that the work of the Commission should be open-ended. This could give a clear signal that there is no specific objective. It cannot be supported as such, purely as a means. But the idea that reform of the country in a broader philosophical sense is necessary, we certainly support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U79	As there are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 368. First reading is over. I shall set the deadline for the submission of the 368 amendments at 12 noon on 3 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U80	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft law amending the party law initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 325. I ask Andres Herkel, Member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair on behalf of the initiators!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U81	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! With this draft, the Free Party Group will add another topic to the finales, the more general name of which is the over-financing of political parties from the state budget and the rather meagre use of this money in election campaigns. In essence, taxpayers' voices are being caught with taxpayers' own money, the money that has been collected in the state budget. It is often passed on to pay off campaign debts over a long period of time, as the state budget is used to obtain money. Or rather, they'll take it. I think that the whole Free Party approach with which we came out in 2015 and which was largely based on the view that too much taxpayers' money is being given to political parties in Estonia is one of the few examples of getting into parliament with such a non-popular programme. And, unfortunately, the overfunding of political parties is a purely objective fact. This has been one of the main pillars of the fact that Estonia's political landscape has been carteld. Last week, too, there was a discussion here during the debate on a draft, whether there is a cartel or not. This model of party funding is certainly a cartel. Now, this is not the draft with which we want to halve the state budget funding of political parties in order to make it even more proportional to what is happening in other European countries. We have tabled this draft long ago, and we are only expecting the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu to take it out of its drawer, because the first reading was completed. The new coalition could now clearly express its will. And this is not the draft that we want to eliminate the injustice that prevails over local electoral alliances. I am thinking of reducing the possibility of competition by allowing the lists of political parties to participate in the support of political parties, but the electoral alliances created by the citizens' initiative do not have any such support. That's the bill we're gonna put forward. So, the ambition of this bill is less. We want to remove one very unfortunate provision of the current party law and propose a regulation that will keep the parties back for the fact that electoral campaigns are owed and paid off afterwards with state budget money. I would like to draw attention here to the absurdity of the current regulation and then to the replacement that we have proposed. In particular, § 129 (6) of the current Political Party Act says so, I quote: 'If the value of the party's net assets at the end of the financial year is negative for three consecutive years, the party will request the party funding monitoring committee to submit proposals to overcome the economic difficulties, restore the party's liquidity, improve its solvency and ensure sustainable management. ' When the previous composition of the Riigikogu dealt with the amendment of the party law, the Political Financing Supervision Commission, which was already operating at the time, drew attention to the inconsistency of this provision, also sending a letter to the then chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Maruste, which said that it would give the supervisory authority a completely new and inappropriate function of assisting the supervising body as an advisory or remedial body in its economic activities. This goes against the principle of independence of control. In essence, this provision entrusts the ERJK, or the Commission for the Financing of Parties, with the role of an auditor and, in principle, may also give rise to a situation in which it must carry out checks on the appropriateness of its own recommendations. Our proposed wording is that if the net assets of the party at the end of the financial year are negative for two consecutive years, the provision will be suspended from the state budget for two years and the corresponding funds will be transferred to the State's Stabilisation Reserve. It actually puts in there what must be there, that is, a reasonable sanction. I would also point out that it was actually on the agenda to seek a similar solution in the previous composition of the Riigikogu when the amendments to the party law were discussed. But then there was the creation of a non-saying bubble, the content of which is what I described: the monitoring committee was given a function that it could not essentially perform. The aim of the draft is therefore to create an effective sanction to prevent political parties from falling short and the electoral campaigns that have been made in debt. If the value of the party's net assets has been negative for two years, the payment of the state budget contribution should be suspended. We are of the opinion that parties who cannot manage their own finances reasonably cannot be trusted to organise public finances. We can understand when net assets in one year go negative, but if this happens for several years in a row, then this is a chronic problem that is expected to be solved by means of the cash flow that comes after, i.e. as I indicated, the state budget. In fact, in our view, the state budget support should also be earmarked to clearly identify what operating costs are and what training costs are. And the payment of campaign costs should not be a first step, much less the payment of campaign debts. We believe that funding political parties from the state budget is a great privilege. This great privilege also requires a great deal of responsibility, and we therefore believe that, given this great privilege, the sanction we have proposed is reasonable and necessary. You might ask, of course, that if the state budget support stops, what happens to the political parties? But, you know, political parties don't have to be state parties. They must, in this case, first and foremost be the expression of the will of their constituents, their supporters and, if they are willing to contribute with their support, they will also come out of very difficult situations, not counting on the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U82	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U83	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! At first glance, a sympathetic bill, but I think it focuses on a very small matter instead of a big one. You propose that if the value of the party's net assets at the end of the financial year is negative for two consecutive years, what you are offering will happen. What, though, does the big picture look like? As far as I know, the red state in European countries is rather a rule. What's the picture like anyway? Or is that not so? Paint us with such a more general picture of the countries of Europe!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U84	Thank you. We would not make this proposal if the major problems had been solved if political parties were financed in a reasonable proportion and if political parties and electoral alliances were treated equally on the policy field. In that case, we would probably not make this proposal. However, since political parties have been granted a special status in Estonian law, we consider that there is no other way to limit the debt of campaigns than to impose such a sanction. As far as other European countries are concerned, you are probably right in the fact that as a general principle, the net assets of a normally functioning civil society can go down, but this can be positive and the matter will be dealt with. In that case, there would be no point in imposing a sanction. However, in this big picture, we must bear in mind that, given the amount per taxpayer, political parties in Estonia have been very luxuriously funded. The analyses that Mr Riho Kangur from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu prepared for us were true, that was a few years ago, and perhaps they should already be updated, clearly showed that political parties are financed in Estonia in the most luxurious and actually unbiased way. This is not the way it is done in other European Union countries. I can give you a few examples. Lithuania's population is considerably higher than Estonia's, but a few years ago, when we had the sum of 5.4 million euros, they paid 4.35 million and it was one of the largest in Europe. Ireland paid 5.6 million and their population is more than three times that of us. The Czech Republic allocated 3.46 million in 2010, with 10 million inhabitants. We can find these comparative tables and send them back to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to refresh memory. In the previous composition of the Riigikogu they were before the members of the committee to solve quite a number of problems, but unfortunately no conclusions have been drawn from these tables. In Estonia, political parties are funded per capita, for one person much more luxuriously than in other European Union Member States.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U85	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U86	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Has it been taken from another country to resolve this situation, or is it your own fiction? It's also the idea of punishing who's in trouble by taking away the money. Maybe it's bankruptcy proceedings and that's the end of it, but there's no money. Any sign of it? How has the situation been resolved in other countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U87	Thank you. In other countries there have been procedures for the liquidation of a party, but the question is whether it is reasonable to start eliminating one part of the policy field. As I said in reply to the previous question, our proposal is still due to Estonia's unique situation in which political parties are overfunded. As long as nothing is done about it, this would be one measure to limit the debt of campaigns. I think that it is more sensible, Mr Põldaru, to leave the opportunity for party supporters to come out of a difficult situation. Perhaps the path of compulsion would be too drastic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U88	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U89	Thank you. Honourable waitress! The main course of your report, which you started, is that the parties are overfunded, the parties have too much money. At the same time, in this bill, you foresee a penalty for those who are financially in a difficult situation who are short of money. You're proposing to take the money away from those who are already short of it. On a philosophical level, it sounds like interesting, but if I try to understand your point of view on a practical level, economically speaking, then I come to the conclusion that it should be exactly the opposite: those who have money lying around with money and who cannot do anything with it should be taken away because they are, like, overfunded. Overfunded are not those who are in a difficult financial situation and in debt. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U90	Thank you, Mr. Kisler. I understand your party would probably like to get more money, but I don't think it's wise to give it. The proposal has to be understood in such a way that this sanction is applied when money has been mistreated. If such a provision were to apply, there would certainly not be long-term debts. We want to prevent this problem. I repeat, we are not just talking about a small debt here. And that is why I also pointed out that the main problem for us is that the funding of political parties at all is too high. This could be reduced by at least half.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U91	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your presentation, you gave some examples of how it has been financed in other countries, and you have repeatedly pointed out that this area is overfunded in Estonia. But is it better or worse than the fact that the state gives a certain guarantee to democracy than a situation where state funding is small and the raising of power by the oligarchs is completely real? Which one do you think is better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U93	Thank you. Both are bad: both when money is given too much, which is causing so-called state parties, and what you referred to. This was a problem for our southern neighbour Latvia some time ago when no state budget money was given to political parties at all. I think that state funding, or guarantee in itself, is quite common in European countries. I also think it's perfectly reasonable. In order not to reverse our ideas, I would stress here: the Free Party has never spoken of political parties not having to receive support from the state budget. However, the level of support should be reasonable and the money should be divided in such a way that political competition is open. That's not what our system does best right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U94	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I heard that parties in Estonia are financed three times more per capita than in Europe on average. At the same time, it is a very sad and surprising fact that if the Emergency Act were to be implemented, the money would be thousands of times less than in the neighbouring country of Finland, for example. It should make a lot more bell ring. Do you think our entire funding system is out of order? Right now you're talking about parties, but if there's some big accident or something crazy, maybe we should look at the whole funding system from this point of view, which is most important?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U96	Thank you, Mr. Ernits. This topic goes beyond the limits of a specific draft. We have clear views on state budget issues, but I do not want to go too far from the subject. You have given an example of the implementation of the Emergency Act and such examples in various areas can be cited more and more. If the funding of political parties were to give up half of the sum of 2.7 million, then of course the whole country will not be improved. It is not enough to patch up the bottlenecks we have in dozens of areas. But much more important than all this is what the political elite set the example. And this example, given in Estonia by the funding of political parties, has been demoralising in nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U97	Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, They say if you don't want to feed your army, there's gonna be a risk that you're gonna feed some foreign army. It's the same in politics. Yes, of course, the value of the net assets is negative and we will stop financing, but you understand perfectly that a situation where the value of the party's net assets suddenly becomes negative may also arise in such a way that it is not dependent on 10000 or 15000 people who are in a political party but on one or two persons. Do you realize you're practically breaking the political system right now, you're not fighting? When such a thing comes, the Estonian political parties will be dependent on the oligarchs that have already been spoken about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U99	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! No, we are certainly not breaking the political system. It doesn't have to be like this either. I understand that it really happened in the Centre Party that one person was subject to some kind of warranty letter, but in a democratic system, no party should really make its decisions in this way. We are relatively protected from individual madness in the event of democratic governance, and the entire board is responsible for financial matters. How we're safe from collective insanity, I don't know what to say. But if a party gets really crazy together, it's probably not really necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U100	Siim Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U101	Thank you. Good waitress! My first question you deliberately misinterpreted. I did not try to argue that the funding of political parties should be increased. I've been trying to understand your logic of whether you're making any economic sense. How will it help to combat the overfunding of political parties if those with a lot of money are given money from the state budget, but to those who lack money, they should not give money from the state budget? That is the content of your proposal, actually. You didn't answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U102	I'll explain it one more time, even though I already touched it in the report. The main objective is that electoral campaigns should not be made indebted to be hindered by this precautionary mechanism. Your point may have a point in that if we look at who has been in the minus with their net assets, we can see that it concerns the political parties represented in the Riigikogu, who have probably made an estimate that the election campaign costs from the seats of the Riigikogu will be paid over time. In a much smaller scale, there has also been a non-parliamentary party in the last few years. It should probably be borne in mind that this regulation should not necessarily concern those parties that do not receive such support from the state budget, i.e. non-parliamentary parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U103	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Have you, in your debate, ruled out the creation of possible jock schemes in order to avoid the situation you described? And did I get it right that you were worried that Estonian political parties were buying election ads for taxpayers' money? And what do you think is worse: is it when a taxpayer buys an ad for his own money or when he gets an ad for someone else's money that he doesn't know?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U105	Thank you. Unfortunately, I didn't understand that last question. What if somebody buys a covert ad for the parties? I guess that was the idea. I think, in principle, that the Commission was also asked about this, that, in fact, our approach could sound quite well with the idea, which has long been put forward, that we should try to set some kind of ceiling on the costs of an election campaign. So far, it has unfortunately collided with the opposition of the Reform Party. Sorry, I forgot the first part of your question. Ah, yokk-solutions. No, I have no ambition here to say that we see all things ahead. Any restrictions will always seek to find solutions to circumvent them. But that doesn't mean we don't have to try to fix these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U106	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I cannot fail to say that this is a draft whose content has been poetically described a thousand times in history. Maybe the most famous scene is where Othello calls out, "Dead you! ' and strangles Desdemona, but regrets it later. The question, however, is this. You see, a party's value is not its net asset. The value of the party is in its ideology and how many people support it. Is it possible to link the value of the party politically to its economic value, to its net worth? I don't see how that's even possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U108	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! The political value of a party without economic responsibility can be very dangerous. That is why we are proposing a solution so that we do not go so far as to take on long-term debts with this political value, which can be heated up during the election campaign. We're maddening a lot of voters and taking on long-term debts, but we'll regret it. By the way, 'Othello' I went to see in Tartu a week ago, Vanemuine plays it, and there's really this scene.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U109	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U110	Thank you! Dear waitress, Listening to your answers, it slipped into my ear that you think parties should receive half the funding. It reminded me of the anti-alcohol ad 'Downward! '. At the time when the system of funding for political parties changed, you probably voted in favour of it too. But, in fact, you know perfectly well yourself that when corporate donations were banned, only private individuals and public funding were left. Now you have brought us comparisons with other countries. In larger countries, political parties are financed significantly less than the state budget. However, all of this cannot be considered to be ripped out of context. Do you also have data that confirm that companies in other countries, for example, cannot donate, only private individuals can donate and there is also public funding? The systems are still much more complex, but it is not enough to name a single number.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U111	Mr. Marrand, first I must grieve you. You have expressed the opinion that I supported this funding restructuring scheme, but you are obviously wrong. I don't know about this year's number, but it might have been the last session before Christmas 2003. I can withdraw from the verbatim and send you the speech I made on that occasion. I did not consider this change to be very meaningful or reasonable because the amounts involved increased. As far as corporate donations are concerned, this is an issue of its own and I would not open it today. But I'm a little skeptical about how it's turned out. After all, entrepreneurs donate as individuals. Indeed, this restriction is not common in many countries, but I do not want to touch on this issue in the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U112	Please, Marko Šorin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U113	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good bill representative! The funding of political parties has been a matter for a long time for all parliamentary parties. When a party recently chose a new leader here, they were also asked to forgive old sins because there were other times. However, I would like to learn from the view of the Free Party in this key that, if there is a current system on one side and black plastic bags on the other, which option would you choose?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U114	Thank you, Mr. Šorin. What am I gonna do with the question of stopping drinking cognac this morning? I don't think either thing makes any sense. Obviously, with our development, these black plastic bags are becoming more and more of a thing of the past. And I believe that more and more of this rivalry and killing using the volume of the election campaign remains in the past. What should happen, however, and what there is very little in the Estonian political party system, that is the ownership of the members, the ownership of the members, is that they are members who pay the membership fee. Moving that way is our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U115	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U116	Thank you! Dear waitress, I do not agree at all with your view that we are completely excluding the financing of companies. This would be misleading and taken out of context, based on the argument that public funding in other countries is much lower. In fact, it's all about the compote, the collection of money that political parties can have in order to operate in the first place. This is a complex issue and the state of things can be compared by looking at everything in a complex way from where and how much money is received. I agree with your position that, in some respects, the rule is that companies cannot fund parties, artificial. Business money also comes from business, so it is almost the same. However, I ask why you do not want to look at this entire financing system in a complex way. The money from the plastic bag will rather come back with less funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U117	Thank you, Mr. Marrand. What am I gonna do with this question? The way companies can fund political parties, we are not involved in this draft. As I have pointed out, we have more general initiatives here that would concern the restructuring of party funding in a more fundamental way. I would also throw up the idea here that, in fact, we really need a new party law that does not grope about contradictions. At present, we want to amend § 129 (6) of the Political Party Act, but there are severalteen of these steps in this section. I think that party law as a whole needs critical analysis and remediation, we could do that. But in order for this to really happen, the members of the Free Party Group and the advisors will probably be a little short. We are trying to demand wider political support for our perceptions, so we can do these things together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U118	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U119	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think that the arrangements for funding political parties in other countries should suit us, because there are other options elsewhere, different budgets. But your bill says we'll give the party money and then we'll regulate how to use it. I believe you agree with me that the election campaign is an important part of the life of all political parties. I mean, maybe give them a lot of money, but you said in your speech you couldn't. Am I right to understand that your proposal is to cancel the financial support at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U120	Thank you. You must have misunderstood something. I don't think there should be any state funding. I think it's too much. As regards the amount of the campaign and other costs, when the state gives money, it should provide it for certain specific purposes, not so that all this money can be spent on the election campaign, and then we will start to form separate foundations for the development of democracy. After all, a few years ago, the topic was raised so that they could receive separate funding for training activities. I believe the parties have, apart from an apology for expression! be able to wash the drivers' brains with flat advertising, really a very necessary folk lighting function. So when money is allocated, there should be different headings: so much for training costs, so much for operating costs and so much for campaign costs. This money is currently completely untargeted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U121	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I call on Helmut Hallemaa, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to give a presentation to the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the discussion of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and I will certainly mention the decisions at the end. The Free Party Group submitted the draft to the procedure on 8 November last year. It reached the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 17 January this year and the minutes are shown under number 93. The subject is certainly important, as was seen in today's round of questions and answers. This is something I emphasised myself and was also emphasised in the Commission. Of course, getting money from the state budget places responsibility on the political parties, in which the drafter can only be accepted. And it is also important that the self-management of political parties, as political entities receiving money from the state budget, is exemplary. As at the time of the presentation in this Chamber, the debate in the Commission was much wider than the scope of this draft. We addressed restrictions on the volume of election advertising and other issues related to election advertising. There was also funding for political parties in general: why they are financed from the state budget, etc. Jüri Adams, Member of the Commission, highlighted the problems of party law in the Commission. He, like Andres Herkel, pointed out here that this law could come back to the table in the future. Since there are a number of accounting things in the party law, I think it is natural. This bill also deals with one thing, or financing, so that accounting is directly linked to it. The nature of political parties as civil society organisations was also addressed. The Members of the Commission, Mart Nutt and Ivari Padar, took the floor at length, who considered that the parties were civil society organisations, but they were special in nature and role, and there should probably still be a special regulation, even though there are countries in Europe where the functioning of the parties is not regulated by a separate law. At the other extreme, there are countries where political parties are public entities. We do not even have municipal associations at county level in public law; they are also ordinary civil society organisations. And we, too, reached comparison with other European countries in terms of the nature and action of political parties as well as in terms of financing. I myself summed up, and so did the other members of the Commission, that, in fact, one comparison to one is not conceivable. This is also not conceivable for civil society organisations. Unfortunately, both civil society organisations and political parties operate on the basis of completely different logics, and funding and management models are also completely different from country to country. The key issue in the Commission's debate was the same as in this Chamber: how much and whether political parties should be financed from the state budget at all. Three members of the Commission spoke about this. Ivari Padar asked whether parties could be compared to ordinary non-profit organisations. After all, the specifics of the parties are quite different, and before increasing the funding of the parties from the state budget, the problems were different again. For example, suspected corruption involving political parties was much more topical. I myself, as a Member of the Commission, pointed out that the explanatory memorandum to the draft text stated • and that is what the rapporteur said here, 'the funding of political parties from the state budget is a great privilege, and that means a great deal of responsibility'. I have already stressed the responsibility, and I fully agree with it, that it places a great deal of responsibility on the representatives and members of political parties. But can this be called the privilege of changing the system of funding from the state budget? The main objective was to make the functioning of political parties independent from other sources of funding. In the later discussion, a good colleague, Jüri Adams, noted that it is not quite right to use the word 'privilege' in legal documents. There is a privilege and a special right. It is clear that political parties have no prerogative, but a special right is due to the fact that political parties receive money from the state budget. But so will other civil society organisations. The subject was finally summarised by Commissioner Kalle Laanet, who said that when funding from the political parties was increased from the state budget, it was because contributions from legal persons were previously allowed and no one knew who was behind one legal person or another. He thought that no one had been able to come up with a clearer system so far. As regards the sums of money to be allocated, it is indeed a matter of political agreement. In the context of a specific draft, I believe that a very substantive question was asked by the chairman of the committee, Ken-Marti Vaher. He wanted to know why the initiator decided to set the limit for just two years: if two years are negative at the end of the financial year, a relatively severe sanction will be imposed. Mr Herkel replied that it seemed to the initiators that two years were long enough to introduce sanctions. There was also a discussion about this, as said here by the initiator of the bill, that we should actually consider that this regulation cannot be implemented next year. If any, it can be implemented one year after the problems arise, as annual reports will be submitted as of 30 June next year. In fact, there was another important issue, which was wider and does not directly concern this draft, but there was also a comparison of the funding of Estonian and other national parties on the table. I do not remember whether Mr Herkel or Adams pointed out in the Commission that Iceland has more funding than we do in terms of per capita GDP at present. This is not reflected in the table drawn up by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In fact, the Commission also had relevant figures, but unfortunately they have been available since 2010. For example, Cyprus had funding of 4,35 million in 2007 and Cyprus is significantly smaller than us. That year, we paid just under EUR 6 million, or EUR 5,7 million. So it's actually quite the same size. The following countries, based on gross domestic product and population, are Lithuania, Poland and Austria. In addition to direct aid, all of them have received separate funding for electoral campaigns. That proposal was also on our table. In addition, Mart Nutt noted an important point, which the rapporteur also pointed out when replying. There are NASA and NASA, or world-view foundations, and foundations for the development of democracy. When the previous parliamentary assembly discussed this, it was found that Estonia would not implement them and would stick to the direct funding of political parties. We'll be paid as a direct grant without putting on a tag. As has been said, electoral campaigns have been funded separately in many countries. Finally, despite a long and in-depth discussion, the Commission made relatively short decisions. There's three of them. Firstly, it was proposed to put the draft on the agenda for today's sitting. Here he is now on the plenary agenda and this debate is coming to an end. It was also proposed to reject the draft and a waitress was appointed in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U123	The first question to you, Honourable waitress, is asked by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U124	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! It is a pleasure that you addressed this issue so widely in the Commission. Did you also come to the question of the principle that, from the state budget to pay money to political parties, they do not have to submit any applications, any vision that will happen in the current or next year? It is enough to be successful in the parliamentary elections. In January each year, the Minister of the Interior gives an order stating certain amounts. We ourselves attended the Village Elders' Forum on Saturday, where on several occasions the topic of why civil society organisations are not equivalent to political parties was raised. Political parties are like senior associations; they are not comparable to civil society organisations. But even in the case of regional support shared by the Riigikogu, all recipients must submit an application setting out the activities and the plan for spending the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U125	Thank you. We really went to the village elders' forum. It covered quite interesting topics, including political parties. This is precisely in the context of the approaching elections, of how many electoral alliances and how many political parties will come out. I think I'm a little different. I think that political parties are making quite large-scale applications, and this is actually also linked to elections and election results. In many countries it is exactly the same. But there are very different options indeed. In Europe, regulation is from wall to wall. However, it is not quite the case that money is simply given, in fact it is precisely the result of the election. And the result of the election is largely dependent on the presentation of its positions, principles, plans and, consequently, on funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U126	There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U127	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We are now discussing a very grateful subject. Its gratitude lies in the fact that this issue will never be resolved, and we can talk about it for years and decades. It's kind of like the sophists in the Middle Ages were arguing with each other, which was before, either chicken or egg. Strangely enough, they left a rooster out of this system and, well, under that condition, they could spend centuries arguing. It is a balance, and I would compare it to a competition in which armor and a projectile have been involved for decades. At the beginning of World War II, the German army's main anti-tank cannon was 37 mm, and it was enough to march half through Europe. No tank could resist it, and it was thought to be a miracle weapon. By the way, the Soviet troops started with a 45 millimeter cannon. It doesn't really matter, does it? And it seemed to be enough. After suddenly it turned out that the Soviet Union had introduced a T-34, and this German 37 mm cannon did not take this armor in any way. It's like a cannon was shot with peas. But then the new heavy tanks came from the other side, the same Tigers, and the Russian 45 mm cannon was of no use. Then the cannon ZiS-3 76 mm emerged, it has been recognized as the best cannon in World War II. And that's how the competition works all the time. There's always a counter-argument to some argument, and the scales are getting thicker and thicker, aren't they? At first, it was like a stain-like, 8 mm, but it finally reached about 400 mm. In the end, however, it has become apparent that no engine can carry on and that a balance has to be found. It's just like the shells. Maybe in the meantime, the metalworking industry has taken such a big step forward that the projectile simply doesn't pass through the metal. Then they come up with a new projectile with low-enriched uranium in it, used by the Americans, for example, in Iraq. But then it turns out, yes, from the tank's armor, it's gonna blow, but it's also gonna cause an ecological disaster. But when you fight, you must also think of the time of peace, of what you will do afterwards. So the race is going on all the time, and we have to take part in it no matter what. It is very gratifying that you came up with this idea, but I have something to say about it. I still do not understand why, at a great moment, legal persons were banned from supporting political parties. It used to be that you took the list of supporters, opened up and immediately realized what it was about, who was supported by one or another big company, and why one or the other bill pops up on this remote control. It was immediately clear who was being lobbied. I think it's one of those things that weakens the shell. That is one question that could be discussed, but those who do party work have a lot of such questions. Is it right to link the party's net assets to financing? Everything happens in life, and you don't know what the economic situation is in a month. We can't tell you what's gonna happen in a minute, let alone what's gonna happen in a year or three. Can I have a minute, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U128	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U129	That's the last question today, and we have until 1:00 to talk about it. The question is whether we are not overreacting with this bill. Logically, it was concluded that the height of the tank should not exceed 3 metres ♪ this is the maximum, otherwise it would be too good a target. I would remind you that during the war, the Americans made a tank that was nearly five metres high, and thought that this was the best solution to see far away. We are discussing a very sensitive subject today. The solution proposed by one political party cannot be taken at risk, it needs to be discussed for a long time, to find mechanisms to protect both political parties and voters. At the moment, we cannot support this bill. That is what I said on behalf of the Centre Party Group. My personal opinion is that it is not fully thought through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U130	On behalf of the Jüri Adams Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U131	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we discussed in the Free Party Group whether a representative of a political group should be speaking here with a speech only allowed to be spoken by authorised representatives of the political groups, we also raised the question of what this representative should be talking about. I suggested that I speak briefly once again about the basic facts in the history of political parties' public funding, and I also mark the main problems. In the meantime, there have been a number of changes in the composition of the Riigikogu; there are a number of MPs who did not belong to Parliament at the beginning of this Riigikogu. In fact, I think we've been discussing this issue to my annoying point. We once asked questions about the funding of political parties to the Ministry of Justice with our signed petition. We have submitted at least once a draft on the reduction of public funding and a similar draft has been submitted by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. There must have been more. I can't tell you how much we've raised, maybe half a dozen times already. People's representative Marrand here, through his questions, revealed that he had never heard of these problems. But it is a joy to admit that perseverance and diligence are undoubtedly things that have great benefits. Finally, we have also reached the level of consciousness of Mr Marrand, and the representative of the people who, so far, have had much more important matters to attend to, and who have not found a way to pay attention to the problem of funding political parties, is now also familiar. It is, in itself, very positive. Now about the legal problem. The legal problem is that there has been a dispute among Estonian lawyers and in Estonian constitutional law, which are political parties: whether they are private associations or whether they are essentially public law associations. In view of their particular purpose, they are considered to be private parties only. It has its basis: political parties have already been called the bearer of special responsibilities and increased accountability in the Constitution. When we read the articles on this subject and the constitutional comments, we see that there is a strong tendency to regard them as 'quasi-state institutions', which are state-owned and also perform some of the tasks of the state. This dispute will not end until a clear decision is made in this Riigikogu, and this decision should probably be more in favour of the private party. If we come back to history, the most important years in the history of this problem are 2003 and 2004. The state's financial support for political parties is, in my opinion, already in 1995 but then it was relatively small, starting from EEK 5 million and reaching EEK 20 million by 2003. And then things started to evolve. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U132	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U133	So, what was the development in 2003? In 2003, a coalition government came into power, which was now led by Juhan Parts, who went from us to work in Europe. This led by Res Publica, whose partners in this government were the Reform Party and the People's League. From our point of view today, the most interesting thing was that the 2004 budget proposed a triple increase in funding for political parties: from EEK 20 million to EEK 60 million. The Minister of Finance was then Taavi Veskimägi. I do not know what was behind this decision. In 2003 Ken-Marti Vaher was the Minister of Justice and Urmas Reinsalu was the chairman of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. They made changes to the party law in cooperation. I had other acquaintances back then at the Ministry of Justice, who remember more or less who the young people who went to draft this bill were. It is believed that Kristen Michal was among them and Rain Rosimannus. The main content of the amendments was that any restrictions and bans on the use of money were abolished, but at the same time a ban on donations from legal persons was introduced. Why? There are a whole series of urban legends that give one or another of Res Publica's seniors pre-election promises that if we get power, we will first pay back all debts if you give us money, and secondly, we will make sure that no private operator in Estonia will ever have to give money to political parties again. The last few words are about the cartel. The term "cartel" certainly has different journalistic meanings, but in the Estonian press it is the common denominator of the four parties who have very different opinions, but absolutely the same position on the state funding of political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-24_U134	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft 325 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 325 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 44 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, 8 against, 4 abstentions. The proposal was supported. Draft 325 has been rejected at first reading. Honourable members of the political groups of cartel parties and members of the political groups of the artillery parties. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.18 p.m.
