ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U1	Question Time. Incoming check, please! Forty-two is here, 59 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U2	The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, and Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration are members of the government. I'll give you one more question. First, Jürgen Ligi asks, and Jüri Ratas answers. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U3	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! We had Ardo Hansson in the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday. He confirmed with his stories and drawings what we've been talking about here and writing for a long time. It's high-conjuncture now. It'll be worse in a couple of years. It is worse because the economic cycle is worse, it is worse because euro money is dwindling, and it is also worse because the budget has to be brought out of the structural deficit. Neither you nor your finance ministers have said anything constructive to the Riigikogu. But what would you say to your successor and, for my sake, to Eesti Pank? Why are you doing this, why are you pulling nominal and structural minus at a time when the economy and budget are all good? Why are you leaving yourself in a worse position than you could possibly have?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U4	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, first of all congratulations on the election of the Chairman of the Group. I had very constructive debates with your predecessor here, and I hope they will continue with you. Now, in answer to your question, yes, we can say that economic conjunction, economic outlook and prospects have improved. This is also demonstrated by the first two quarters in terms of growth indicators. However, I think it is certainly too early to draw final conclusions from just two quarters. Now, the euro, which you mentioned. I think one step is that we must also be able to realise our projects. We need to finance their volumes as much as possible before the end of 2020. I mean, for example, Rail Baltic. But in this sense, I agree with you that euro money certainly does not grow in our case, but rather is in a downward trend, particularly because our standard of living and our economic situation are improving. Now, structural minus. At present, 2018 is the budgetary position: nominal minus 0.1% of GDP, i.e. 36 million euros, and structural is 0.25% of GDP, i.e. circa 61 million euros. You're asking why we do this. First of all, I very much hope that the budget will reach a balance by 2020 and the surplus by 2021. But really, next year we need to solve a lot of important issues of state life related to the health insurance fund, which is linked to our defence capacity, local authorities and also to the increase in the tax-free minimum. And all the issues that need to be resolved are on the expenditure side of the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U5	Jürgen Ligi, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U6	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! I don't think you noticed my question. I did not say that the economic situation and the budgetary situation would improve, I said that they would deteriorate. And that's what Ardo Hansson says. I wasn't talking about putting euro money away, you said that. My question was, what do you say to your successor, to whom you have written the inability to continue these fine solutions, and who will have to cut back, because then there will be a poorer conjunction, less euro money and a structural minus. What do you say to your successor, to whom you have left a very bad budget situation, acting like a one-day host?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U7	Thank you, good questioner! I started with good will. I started by giving an answer to all of these points, and there were at least four of them, which you dealt with in your first question. I gave you an answer, but it didn't suit you. Once again, public finances are certainly in very good order, and the state budget for next year has certainly been made in a very responsible manner. If you are asking about euro money, it is not about earmarking now, but about whether we can finance these projects from euro money, whether we can complete the projects and whether we will receive as much co-financing as possible before the end of this budget period. Now your rhetorical or political question, which will be taken over by the next government. I think he takes over a lot of things that have been resolved during the current government and will certainly be resolved before the next regular elections. Since your question is so specific, I will also give you a specific answer. Point one, he will certainly get a society where doctors and medical staff do not have to say at the beginning of each year that if the government does not solve the substantive issues of funding, then we must come to the streets. He's gonna get a deal that's written in the law. Point two, our farmers do not say every year that Estonia does not pay the top-up subsidies that other countries of the European Union pay. Estonia pays the grant. I am pleased that yesterday, when the farmer of the year was announced, the farmer of last year also said that it would be commendable if it was paid at the maximum rate. Point three, the state gets that people earning low and average wages will earn more from 1 January next year due to an increase in the tax-free minimum. Point four, higher salaries for teachers, kindergarten teachers and, of course, cultural workers, as well as in the field of internal security. These are some examples. Thank you for listening attentively.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U8	But now Aivar Sõerd is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U9	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! The things you are talking about are all one-off fine things, but the long-term sustainability of the budget is also a value in itself and very important to the economy. At the moment, we have been introduced to more recent data, that, compared to the forecast of the Ministry of Finance, the latest more accurate forecasts show that the economy is growing beyond its potential, more than we had in summer knowledge, when the Ministry's forecast was made. I mean, it shows even more that in any case, the nominal minus is also small. I ask you this: is it not too late to reach the nominal balance according to your plan in 2021? All the more so because you have always complained that too few reserves were collected in the years before the crisis. You indicated that the budget was then structurally negative. But we raised a reserve of EUR 6 billion each year. Please tell me if the year 2021 is not too late in this changed situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U10	Thank you, good questioner! I certainly want to support and protect your group chairman here. I think you're attacking Jürgen Ligi for nothing. He was asking for specific things, what does this budget give, what this budget solves? This is what he solves, what I said: treatment queues, local government revenue base, direct payments to farmers. I'm sorry, but I think it is not right to upset the Chairman of the Group here. Now, what else is this budget going to give? It provides firm input that the debt is foreign and that the level of debt must be lowered. If we saw last year that the debt ratio in Estonia was 9.4%, the current budget will go very far into this order to reduce the debt burden. We want it to be 7% by 2021, not 9.4%. You said that we wanted to strike a balance by 2021. No! The current government wants to strike a balance by 2020 and a surplus by 2021. We'd like to do it even faster than you've just given me the question, according to your senses. Now, on the deficit, you brought, say, an example 10 years ago, from 2008. So let's take this ten-year-old example of 2018 and 10 years ago it's 2008. The budget deficit was then 20 times higher than in the following year. 20 times! This deficit is certainly not being tolerated by the current government. And that is actually why we have halved the structural deficit in the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U12	Now Artur Talvik is asking Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U13	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear George! Wide-spread defense is the kind of thing that keeps changing names. They're talking about one and the other, once he's wide-spread, once he's broad-based, once he's a wide-ranging defense. But this is something that requires a great deal of cooperation between different ministries, between different institutions. In my understanding, the biggest obstacle now is the lack of cooperation. Wide-spread national defence is viewed as a view of the so-called silo towers, i.e. there is no cooperation. How big do you think this is? Are there any solutions to trigger this kind of cooperation? Wide-spread defence is a very important issue today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U14	Thank you for that question. Indeed, broad-based national defence is an extremely important issue, especially in a situation where we are faced with hybrid threats other than purely military threats. When it comes to military operations, we must, of course, keep civil society running. In my opinion, wide-ranging national defence has now acquired a pretty clear basis for planning. There is a national defence development plan that takes into account only one of six parts of defence activities as military protection. And I think it is also very important that there have been several types of exercises that will help to practice this scheme. Such exercises are undoubtedly essential for the organisation of defence activities, including its civilian side. Perhaps it is important to remember that only one part of this activity is to be carried out by the Ministry of Defence. Because the Defence Forces must be the first line in military action, especially in the event of a military conflict. Currently, the State Chancellery has taken over the coordination of this work. In my opinion, the silos are no longer a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U15	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U16	Yes, it is understandable that the Ministry of Defence is likely to cover one sixth or a little more of the wide range of national defence. But what's worrying is that there are plans somewhere, there are plans somewhere, but the population doesn't know them. What has been done in order to explain to the people of Estonia the idea of broad-based national defence and how they can participate in it? After all, this basically means that each of us is the protector of this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U17	Yeah, it's true. There is certainly still a great deal to be done here, because the protection of the population is an important part of broad-based national defence. Of course, the entire population, as well as the local authorities and ministries, must be very well informed about their responsibilities. At the end of this year, the concept of population protection should be discussed in the Government of the Republic, which will allow the tasks of the various institutions to be quite precisely rewritten. This does not mean, of course, that daily work is not done to inform the population. The Ministry of Defence acts, for example, through national defence teaching, i.e. national defence teachers receive relevant information. We are also working on the preparation of a new national defence textbook, and it will come into a separate chapter that specifically concerns the protection of the population. So the teaching of national defence gives the younger generation today, but in the future, an even better insight into what protection of the population means and what their tasks are. Of course, this is a very wide range of topics, and there is certainly much to be done here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U18	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U19	Mr President! Dear Minister, You raised the issue of population protection, that's what I'm talking about. There is a need for the issue of population protection as a concept to be legally regulated. The protection of the population is not being and is not being adequately explained and spoken about in society at the moment. There should be a management body to deal with the issue of public protection, but it does not yet exist. Public protection tasks are not defined as national defence tasks. Nor is it clear who is responsible for the protection of the population in some situations. What has been the role of the Ministry of Defence and cooperation with other ministries during this time? How do you feel about such an issue as setting up a leadership body to protect the population?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U20	Thank you. Let's just say that the subject is very thorough and requires a very systematic approach. This civil defence approach of the Soviet era is, of course, no longer working. There is a great deal of resources in the hands of private companies and in the hands of different ministries. The Defence Forces are literally only dealing with national defence, that is our main and can be said to be the only task. The most sensible thing is, of course, to coordinate the protection of the population with some kind of central management. Which is exactly what the concept of population protection should put in place. At the moment, there is a great deal of population protection related to the Emergency Act, and this is clearly the Ministry of the Interior, but there are very many issues that require the involvement of other ministries and other institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U22	The next question is from Mart Helme to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As we know, the Prime Minister of our southern neighbour has informed the European Commission that Latvia will not accept more quota refugees, apart from those who have already been agreed in advance. Does your government intend to follow the example of Latvia and limit itself to the reception of already agreed refugees, and also to state that our capacity does not allow us to accept more refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U24	Thank you. I understand that you are talking primarily about resettlement. No, the government hasn't changed any plans. The plans are exactly the same, i.e. no number has been raised. Estonia's position has always been that when we talk about the refugee of war, their adoption must be very specifically regulated. We want to do interviews in the country where the refugees live. As we know, this has taken place in Greece and Turkey and has gone well. Negotiations are still ongoing with some of the European Union's countries. This means that the Police and Border Guard Board, the Defence Police and social specialists must be present at the interview. So no, no quotas have been raised by Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U25	Mart Helme, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U26	Thank you. We are currently the Presidency of the European Union. As is well known, further development of the quota system, and of the mother of refugees in general, is also on the agenda and under discussion in the European Commission and in the European Union at the level of ministers and other leaders in general. Has Estonia taken a completely passive stance on this issue? That's how I understand your answer. Is it when it is decided that the redistribution, resettlement system must continue and that countries must receive a new number of refugees in a compulsory manner, that is what Estonia will accept, without shaping any of its views?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U27	Thank you. No, you don't get it right. As President-in-Office, I think that Estonia has taken an active stance to resolve and address the root causes. I may be wrong about the date, but it was probably the beginning of July 3rd or July when a concrete step was taken before the Estonian Presidency and it was decided that the European Union's very strong focus is on tackling the root causes outside the Union, the root causes of the migration wave, or the countries of origin. It is humanitarian aid, it is the fight against human trafficking, it is participation in peace-building missions, but it is also the same African trust fund. This is the same concrete example: at the beginning of July, the Estonian government decided to give another million, in addition to the EUR 450000 already in the African Trust Fund. If we count this amount of money at 1.45 million euros, which is a very large sum per Estonian population or population, then Estonia is certainly one of the best contributors to the African Trust Fund to address the root cause of migration. Now, the second topic, you asked what the Estonian Presidency was doing. In the second half of that summer, I visited Turkey. There are refugee camps in the area of the city of Gaziantep, and I visited one of them. This is, in fact, what the European Union has done, and it has contributed financially to, the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. So Estonia has tried everything in its Presidency to resolve the refugee issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U28	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U29	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Thank you, Prime Minister. Now you just fell in instead of answering. Here's our question. At present, changes to the Dublin system and the establishment of a centralised distribution plan are on the table in the European Union. That is the proposal that has been made. A number of countries, including our southern neighbours or, for example, the new Austrian government, are categorically opposed to this. The Visegrad countries are categorically opposed to this. Estonia currently holds the Presidency of the European Union and the Commission has a desire to resolve this issue during this year's term of office. Now, under the Presidency, the government does not come in its positions as a Commission for European Union Affairs, and therefore the government does not have any 'official' position or mandate from Parliament. I want a very clear answer, try to answer so that it doesn't hurt to be specific. How, then, is our government's attitude towards reform of the Dublin system and a central plan for distribution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U30	Thank you. If a member of the Riigikogu asks me about the Estonian Presidency, what Estonia has done, then of course I will reply very clearly and with respect to Mr Mart Helme, what Estonia has done during its Presidency. So I don't want to miss his question here. On the contrary, I want to respond specifically and directly. Now, in reply to you, I repeat my first response to Mr Helme: we have not increased any numbers or quotas of any kind. This will be discussed in the study session in November-December. This is certainly not what Estonia is doing to increase its initial number. We still have enough to go to this initial decision. So the answer is, no, don't be afraid, there won't be any number increases. The 50000 you are talking about, what the Commission is proposing, it is voluntary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U32	Maris Lauri is asking Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! We have now heard for a few days that Estonia has achieved a great victory with the Posted Workers Directive. While I look at the reactions of entrepreneurs or employers, they are, say, skeptical, even quite vicious, and I have seen only one positive reaction. But I haven't heard at all what the government's position is. What is the purpose of the Estonian Government with the Posted Workers Directive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U34	Thank you for this question. Now I don't know if there was an assessment on your question or not, but if it was an assessment, I'll share it. I think that the step that the Estonian Presidency was able to take in the agreement on the Directive on posted workers between 28 countries is important. Several presidencies have tried to do this, but have failed. In any case, my firm support and recognition goes to Mr Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, who discussed this topic for 14 hours. It has always been on the verge of the European Council on a strong table and also at the Council's debate. So I really share your opinion when it was your opinion that this is one of the important milestones of the Estonian Presidency, one could even say the cornerstone, i.e. one of the most important agreements. In view of what is at all the key role of the President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, that is, to be able to agree, to find consensus. As we know, the issue of posted workers, apart from the French Presidential elections, was even stronger on the table, where much more consensus was sought. And when we look at the end result, it's certainly much better than what was expected some time ago. Four countries said no, three countries abstained and the rest were in favour. The position of the Estonian Government is, of course, that we support the agreement of the Minister of Health and Labour. We think it's a good deal. In June this year, Estonia's position was complemented and supported by the European Union Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U35	Maris Lauri, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U36	Thank you. Prime Minister, I do not think you listened exactly to my previous question, because I certainly did not approve of this agreement. What is good, however, is that you finally said that the government would support the agreement reached. I now understand that you are against Estonian entrepreneurs and against the position of companies. And I understand that you are actually also against those workers who are now losing the opportunity to work, for example, in Sweden or Germany, because, let's say, if, in a posted situation, you have to pay the salary, the social benefits and, in addition, the travel allowance, the hiring of Estonians, for example, in Germany and their posting will become pointless. They're probably gonna start hiring people there. I think it is sad for the workers. You really didn't think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U37	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu Lauri. I was just thinking about the first sentence of your question, do you get it right? And I thought that at the last debates, I think we have found a lot of common language with regard to the Estonian economy and Estonian fiscal policy. But now, again, you get the wrong idea. I am absolutely not against Estonian entrepreneurs; I am for them. I am willing to act actively to ensure that Estonia's economic environment grows, that Estonian entrepreneurs do well, that we are able to focus more and more on our exports, and that we also receive more foreign investments in this country. Yesterday, Maris Lauri, a respected member of the Riigikogu, I was in Finland, Helsinki. I met with Finnish entrepreneurs who invest here and create jobs across Estonia. Now, you are talking about those people who are going out of Estonia to work somewhere else, earning a lower salary there, and that we are against these people. It's not against these people! Estonia has taken a very clear line: of course we want more innovation. I do not think that your question was linked to the fact that the Reform Party is opposed to innovation; I really do not put it that way. On the contrary, I think you too want innovation, more exports and higher profitability for the country. True, we cannot say that the Posted Workers Directive has now been finally agreed, because it still needs to be negotiated with the European Parliament, but it is a separate issue. The transport part of the Posted Workers Directive also needs to be agreed separately at the level of transport ministers, in this sense work will continue, but this agreement, which has been reached, is certainly very signicant.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U38	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U39	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! A little more generally, of course, the employers are not satisfied with this agreement. And Estonia's own position before the last amendment was such that the minimum scope of this agreement must be at least 24 months. The government actually withdrew from it and gave the Minister for Health and Labour the authority to agree on anything in principle. As this agreement concerns 0.7% of the circa workforce in the European Union, I wonder whether you are satisfied that both the government and the Minister of Health and Labour have said that it is the biggest breakthrough or success story in Estonia during the Estonian Presidency. Does it not seem to you that it is a bit like running under the bar, or setting too low targets for the Estonian government? Do you also confirm that this is the biggest success story of the Estonian Presidency?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U40	Thank you. Of course, I will begin, Honourable Hanno Pevkur, by responding to your congratulations on the position and duties of the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu before the Estonian state and the Estonian people. Good luck to you! First of all, Estonia's views on which you asked. In principle, Estonia's views supported the Commission's proposal. Those views were confirmed by the European Commission on 23 September 2016 and supplemented on 12 June 2017. Now, if you will allow, I will resume the objective of Estonia, as President of the Council of the European Union, which was confirmed at the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 29 June and had previously been discussed with the Riigikogu, as I mentioned, on 12 June. As President-in-Office, Estonia set itself the minimum objective of agreeing a general approach in the Council and, if possible, reaching agreement with the European Parliament by the end of the Presidency. You asked if this was really the biggest job win. I think this is really one of the most important job wins, given what is currently under discussion between 28 European countries. I'm sure you have your senses from your co-workers, and I have my own sense from your co-workers. The European Council has really had the issue of posted workers, as I said, on the table, but it has also been a very strong topic in conversations between itself. When we had always thought that it could be a breaker for the East and the West, we finally saw this I also spoke to Mrs Lauri in reply to the fact that only four countries voted 'no'. I think this is indeed a very strong message during the Estonian Presidency. An agreement has been reached. I do not want to give any less importance to the aspects of digital issues or to the digital summit in Tallinn, but in the last Council these conclusions, which I have spoken about, were certainly one of the most important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U42	Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, answers and asks Küllik Kübarsepp. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U43	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Jobs in rural areas are a very important issue, and the country is one of the most important tools in this respect. At the same time, the legislator has expressed its will that administrative reform and the reform of rural governments should be implemented as a matter of urgency and that a number of tasks should be transferred to local governments. As I walk and meet and talk to people all over Estonia, I see that the big problem is the lack of knowledge as to whether they will be able to perform all functions by 1 January. What are the duties of the government and your subordinates? How do these helping hands work? Will all legal obligations be fulfilled correctly, lawfully and clearly by 1 January?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U44	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. Definitely an appropriate question. Only recently could we say that the local elections were over. With this, the administrative reform of local governments has, in principle, reached the final milestone. Yes, there is a lot of work to be done and there are still many unresolved issues in the municipalities. Nevertheless, a lot of preliminary work has been done. If we look at the process that has been involved in the administrative reform, the rural government has so far helped to negotiate and agree on new structures, how the new government will start, etc. We are constantly assisting eight administrative reform consultants in the regions. These are quite strong experts and specialists who have, let's say, knowledge of the theoretical base of local governments as well as practical experience. They will continue their work until the end of next year. In the current period, two months, i.e. until 1 January, as stated in the law, municipalities should implement new structures. I believe that, where more work has been done, this is how it works. Where less work has been done, problems may arise. But the decision-maker is now in place, the new council is elected, within the new borders. The Council must also decide. I'm sure we'll help with the consultations. For example, we have already announced two information days for the secretaries of the municipalities and municipalities who receive advice from them. The land secretaries continue to be responsible for the drafting of decisions and legal support, as well as the State Administration Department in the counties as of 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U45	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U46	Thank you. Thank you for your answer. Yesterday's news revealed that the municipalities have another problem. This is linked to the rapid access to the Internet in rural areas and actually connects with the government's plan to build massive rental houses. As it turns out, the government lacks a clear understanding of what a local government is in terms of the European Union. Why isn't it? When will this be achieved? Is the local government the object of the punishment, the object of the ban in the sense of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U47	Thank you for your question. Yes, in the light of the development of information technology and the construction of this so-called last mile of broadband, which we have heard about, I say that the municipalities and municipalities, in cooperation, have very closely mapped this network. It has been viewed what exists, which does not exist, and how many more developments would be needed so that high-speed internet access can reach most people in Estonia. So, certain preliminary work has been done. I'm sure it's the administration of the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, he'll solve it, but I'm also trying to keep up with these problems. There have been no final decisions. I know there have been some questions about state aid. If this is done for a limited sector, i.e. if the municipality has some partners who would like to develop the network, then the question is which rules apply to it. I believe that we should discuss all this seriously in the near future and make the relevant decisions. I very much hope that this preparatory work that has been done by the municipalities will not go empty and will be involved. I know that there will be a debate on 6 November with representatives and developers of local governments who have worked with them, and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will also want to discuss this issue more widely and talk about problems there. I hope that there will also be input into the final decision on how money will be distributed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U48	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I, too, cannot fail to relate to this topical issue. My question is this: do you have an overview of the amount of municipal expenditure for preparatory work on this high-speed Internet project, let us say, from the beginning of the year to today? Are you going to ask the government to compensate for the damage caused, if there is one?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U50	Thank you for your question. As you can understand, this problem has now been raised in recent days and has been new information for the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. As I have already mentioned, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wants to discuss this issue in the light of the same problems that raised the issue of state aid with the municipalities that have done preparatory work. So far, there has certainly been no record of how much local governments or their cooperation partners have spent on this preparatory work. If necessary, this calculation must be made. First, however, we need to make a fundamental decision on how to proceed with this project, how specific procurements will come, who will be involved and how the municipality will be involved, and then see if someone has been harmed or if someone has contributed something to the preparatory work so that it will be completely empty. I don't think that's the way it is. But it's a topical question. I certainly want to keep an eye on this too, along with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, because it concerns municipalities. What is a municipal policy is the responsibility of the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U52	Henn Põlluaas asks Secretary of Defense Jüri Luige. Please, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U53	Thank you. Estonia joined the NATO programme SAC in 2009, which allows Estonia to organise the transport of persons and technology to the operational areas of Boeing C-17 and back to 45 hours per year. The total cost of participation in the programme is EUR 43 million and will be paid over 26 years. How effectively has this opportunity been used? Does it make sense for us to continue to participate in this programme on the basis of real needs, or should the unused amount of the programme be set at around EUR 30 million after that, even though I can't say exactly to cover some other protection needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U54	Thanks to the questioner! Indeed, it is a NATO programme designed to boost NATO's strategic mobility, and it is primarily used by countries that lack the capacity to do so. Of course, Estonia is among these. C-17 is a large transport plane that we use to transfer our fighters to international missions, but not only. We have used it, for example, for the transport of armoured vehicles CV90; we have also used it for the transport of anti-tank missiles Javelin, for example, so we are using it quite actively. In 2016, we took advantage of all our flying hours and we are very likely to take advantage of all our flying hours in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U55	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U56	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Secretary of Defense! Here's my question. If we have brought these allied forces and allied forces technology here with these flying hours, and we have also taken our fighters on missions, how real is it that we can use these flying lessons even if there is, say, a risk of conflict with Russia? Do we have a plan, or is there a condition in this programme that this transport can also be used in situations where this country may be attacked? Does it have air security on it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U57	Thank you. As regards the use of this transport facility in times of crisis, there are no restrictions. One thing is military crises, but we are also able to use this transport plane during civil crises when we need to bring a large number of citizens of the Republic of Estonia out of some area, for example in the case of a natural disaster. In this sense, it is certainly a necessary ability. We haven't used it to transport allies' military equipment, which they've all arranged and paid for themselves. We have used this technology, for example, to transport our Estonian technology from abroad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U58	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U59	Thank you. I'll continue on the air defense. Lithuania received or receives Patriotic missiles from the United States, and according to the press, there will soon be 70 to 80 defence or battle helicopters arriving in Latvia. After all, our problems are exactly the same, we do not have air protection and coastal protection. Do you have any similar good news for the Estonian people to help strengthen our defence capacity? Unfortunately, we are on the same boat as our Baltic neighbours and the situation is not very cheery.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U60	Thank you. Indeed, air protection is a very important issue for us. Estonia itself has only short-range air protection capabilities. As far as Latvia's example is concerned, there is no such thing as a complete false information about the 70-80 Latvian helicopter. As far as Lithuania is concerned, the Patriot missiles were taken there for the purpose of exercises for a very short period of time and have already left them. But there is a problem in itself. It's upstairs, and we'll deal with it as much as we can, as much as we can, and as much as we have financial opportunities. Of course, we are also negotiating on this issue with our allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U61	The question is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U62	Now Andres Herkel is asking Jüri Ratas. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! When we last talked about local government corruption, you got so carried away in your answers that you started inviting me to the Centre Party. No, I'm not going. But my question remained unanswered at the time. Its content was as follows: what steps are the Government of the Republic planning to ensure better compliance with the anti-corruption law, the functioning of internal control in local governments and better transparency in all kinds of transactions? Could it also include steps such as a restriction on the application of people convicted of corruption crimes? On the list of the Centre Party, they applied to the Narva City Council. Is there a plan to prevent them from being employed by the municipality? Unfortunately, there are also examples of this. All you said last time was that we must act forcefully and courageously. What are these powerful and courageous steps? What can I do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U64	Thank you, good questioner! I remember this conversation very well, too. I suppose you yourself did some research into this possibility, at least that's how it seemed to me, and you wanted to improve the Centre Party. That's why. You've been in politics much longer than I have, Mr. Herkel. I am sorry about this from the President of the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu! just the expression that never say never. Well, I don't know. But all right. Now, if you answer your specific question about the need to act forcefully and quickly, then, of course, corruption has no place in the local government, at national level or in the public sector. It must be condemned together and very unambiguously. So what's done? The Prime Minister, and I believe that the whole government, in terms of reducing corruption in local governments and raising awareness of this kind, is based on an anti-corruption strategy and an implementation plan designed to implement it. A wide range of activities, such as internal control, are underway. There is guidance material under preparation, the need for which has also been stressed by the audit of the National Audit Office. In my opinion, cooperation with the National Audit Office and hearing them is very important. The guide should be available after s. By the end of October, I hope in the last months of the year. According to this schedule, the Ministry of Finance has been working on the development of the guidance material and it has to be ready in time, as far as I know. That's one thing. Another thing, the Ministry of Finance develops the application of Public Money, which allows for the analysis of the financial situation and activities of local governments. Now my time is up, but I hope we can continue this conversation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U65	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U66	Thank you, Mr President. I also have a very specific question. In particular, the Civil Service Act precludes the public service of a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally in certain cases. Have you checked whether or not Alar Nääme's recruitment to Sõle Sports Center is covered by this section? Are you willing to make a legal and moral assessment of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U67	Thank you. I will answer the last question to the end first. In the public money application, the accounting data of the general government units from the 2004 to 2017 period have been disclosed. The aim is that local government accounting data can also be published there. The operational deadline is set in 2018 according to the strategy's implementation plan. Preparations and the search for solutions are ongoing and by the end of 2018, the part of the application concerning local authorities should be completed. Your question specifically about Alar Nääme. I say this: as Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, I really do not deal with who is a champion/trainer in one, another or third municipality or who is a person working at one, another or third school. It is still the competence of the municipalities and their assessment. When you ask me if I have checked whether the recruitment of someone is in accordance with a certain paragraph, I very much hope that all local authorities will be guided by the law here, but not only by this, but also by the principle of fairness.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U68	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U69	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! If you understand this problem, it is not just a question of what you can do as Prime Minister, but also of whether you, as party chairman, are tolerating the fact that the Centre Party is overlooking ethical and legal aspects. Can your party be trusted if you have to enforce the laws of the state? Has special anti-corruption training been given to the candidates of the Centre Party so that they can understand what legal area they live in and what are the principles in force in Estonia? If you have brought here that guidance material is being prepared, will it now remain silent or will it also be trained in order for the message to reach people and have the opportunity to sign, so that yes, I am familiar with this material and I stand by for such misconceptions not to occur?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U70	Thank you, Honourable Küllik Hatter! There is always so much energy and flying in your question, and there are various aspects that I have to think about. I understand that you also work well together to prepare questions, which is commendable in any case. No, he's not gonna stay quiet, like you said, or collect dust. On the contrary, it must become a reality and go into action. You asked again about the Centre Party. Yes, the Centre Party is governed by the laws that exist in the Republic of Estonia, and members of the Riigikogu will certainly also take into account the oath of office that has been given here. I think that the aspect of fairness and ethics, which you also mentioned, is also very important. Of course, I would like to thank you for being able to rediscover the Bureau of the Centre Party and the Board of the Party again. I think it's a good thing you're interested in them. But I'll still come back to it, too, you know, where the smoke, there's the fire, that maybe you and Mr. Herkel have an interest in coming to the team, in a good way, and making a contribution. Of course, it is absolutely clear that the background of all people who are candidates for the election of local governments, the election of the Riigikogu or the election of the European Parliament must be impeccable, it must be clean and tidy. If mistakes have occurred, we need to learn from them and get on with the lessons.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U71	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U72	There's five minutes left. Who wants to ask the ministers anything else? Arno Bridge wants to. First of all, you have to tell who gets the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I just have a little proposition, maybe he's not that much of a question. Yesterday, in the Committee on Rural Affairs, I raised the issue of the current alarming spread of jackals in our republic. Several hundred head flocks of sheep have already been put at risk because of this. The Minister for Rural Affairs said that this is not his line, but it is the administration of the Minister for the Environment. So I have a proposition for you: bring them together and we'll think about what to do. Otherwise, the story that happened with the disease of the pigs is that we're gonna be late with our things. Maybe they've spread all over the country before we start doing anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U74	Thank you, Mr. Arno Bridge! I'll come back to the end of your question. I think this principle, which you said, is quite correct. It does not have to be that something very amazing happens in the Estonian country, and only then will we act. On the contrary, we are trying to act proactively. And what you say about jackals is actually a problem. I have heard about this too in several places in Estonia. You were talking about sheep herds. Yes, I also know that in Pärnumaa, going southward from the city of Pärnu, this is a question. So we have to act. I take your proposal seriously. I will try tomorrow to bring together two gentlemen, Mr Kiisler and Mr Tamme, to sit between them in a good way and say that this is a member of the Riigikogu, say, an emphasis and a major problem in Estonian society. There is no way to say that this is the responsibility of one or another minister or ministry, but it must be resolved. I'll do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U75	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U76	Thank you, Chairman. The question is for the Prime Minister. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer to the last question, the last question. I'm in the same position. And I can respond to my colleague Küllike Hatter that, just as in all other political parties, as in the Estonian Central Party, all candidates are writing a statement that they meet all the requirements laid down by law. But my question concerns corruption. Corruption, be it in the municipality, in the country or also in the private sector, is deplorable. I deplore that, too. But here it has been appreciated and so have the state officials, that two thirds of the local governments of Estonia have been corrupted. Can such assessments be made? Can a large part of the Estonian public sector be insulted and appreciated in this way, without finding out these things and explaining the research results to the end?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U77	Thank you. I find it very dangerous to wave on this subject without relying on facts and analyses. When we talk about local governments, we actually know very well that there are very many Members of Parliament who are from a local government background and who have worked in various occupations here too, in the honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu. I think that most people working in local governments do their work primarily with their hearts and responsibility. They help the people of their village, their municipality or their city. So I will answer your question this way: no, I think that without analysis, without serious and, let's say, solid facts, it would not be worth waving corruption in one direction or another. If there are any manifestations, you have to respond to them. The country will certainly also react and do so decisively.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U78	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, ministers Jüri Luik and Jaak Aab! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U79	Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Bring in the precepts, the enquiries and everything you need to hand over right now! The Hatter will be the first.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U80	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Free Party will report an inquiry to Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. The subject has been puzzled yesterday by the fact that it has suddenly been decided to withdraw EUR 20 million of support from the local government, which was intended to bring the ultra-fast internet to the rural population at last. Municipalities have taken the Internet connection message very seriously, creating cooperation projects, spending and collecting 50,000 applications. The fact that the government representative, who should implement the amendments adopted at the beginning of our year, has so far not understood what a local authority is, for example, in the sense of the European Commission is a source of astonishment. It is only today that we find it unfair to come up with such knowledge. At such a critical time, when there is administrative reform, the reform of rural governments and the transfer of all tasks to local authorities, the question arises as to whether it is time for the government or any member of the government to take responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U81	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of six members of the Free Party, I have an inquiry to report to Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour. An inquiry is about the availability of specialist medical care. A draft law amending the Health Insurance Fund Act has been sent to us from the government, which sets out a number of very important objectives, such as ensuring better access to health care for Estonian people and the sustainability of the health care system. There is no doubt that there is a need to change the financing model for healthcare, as a system largely based on labour taxes is unsustainable and does not meet changed needs. At the same time, we have an additional resource that raises the issue. Where does it go anyway? Do we have a different methodology for solving problems with specialist medical care? Is and how are there plans to make substantive changes to the system itself? Because simply putting in an endless pot of money without any change in the substance may not lead us to the desired goals. In our questioning, we focus precisely on specialist medical care, as a considerable amount of money is allocated to specialist medical care from the Health Insurance Fund's budget, i.e. 56%. We also want to find out, with five questions, how this EUR 200 million extra money is being used, whether treatment queues are shortening, which professions are shortening, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U83	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U84	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting yesterday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to initiate a draft of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Gambling Tax Board. As my colleague, Mart Helme, expressed his wish to leave this council, we now have to choose a member of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U85	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U86	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the party of the Reform Party, I will submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu, which will change the Riigikogu's decision to set up a special committee for the control of the state budget. We propose the appointment of Mr Aivar Sõerd as a member of the special committee in place of the current Member, Mr Jürgen Ligi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U87	I have adopted two drafts and two inquiries. We will continue to operate under the Home and Working Procedures Act. But now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 elsewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U88	Let's start working on the agenda items. Third reading of the draft Population Register Act 382 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. This is a bill that requires a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu. Let's go to the final vote. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft Population Register Act 382 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 85 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the bill 382, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Population Register Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U89	The following is the third reading of the draft Act on Supplementing Medicinal Products, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate, so we will go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft amendment to § 76 of the Act on Medicinal Products initiated by the Social Affairs Committee 481. Please take a stand and vote. There were 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 481; there was no one against, with one abstention. The Supplementary Act to § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U90	Third reading of the draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 487. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft 487 and 7 abstentions. The Law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U91	Draft law amending the Fisheries Market Organisation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 465. I'll open negotiations if you want. Looks like it's not, it's all clear. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 465. Please take a stand and vote. There were 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 465, no respondents or abstentions. The Law amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U92	We now ask for a presentation by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice of the Speaker's Department, who will talk about developments in legal policy until 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U93	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! A respectable representative of the people! Legislative procedures are at the heart of the implementation of good lawmaking, both in Estonia and in other parts of the world, because if they meet agreed standards, the quality of the content of legislation will also improve. Predictable, open, inclusive and evidence-based legislation is the key words that mark the way towards good lawmaking. In applying the principles of good lawmaking and the plan to reduce the volume of legislation, we have stressed that less legislation is not an end in itself, but better regulation reduces the volume of legislation. This can be observed by the number of laws being amended. In Estonia, 379 laws were in force as of 1 January, after which you have been amended, i.e. you as the legislator have amended 237 laws in total. However, the number of amendments does not provide information on the content or necessity of the amendments. That is why the Government of the Republic has focused, under the direction of the Ministry of Justice, on public consultation and analysis of solutions to problems encountered during the early phase of legislative drafting, i.e. drafting, and whether the problem can be resolved without changing the law. The more it starts with the intention of legislative drafting, the more likely it is that legislation will only be created if it is really needed. In this way, the number of plans to develop provides information, among other things, on the number of cases where the possibility of reducing the volume of legislation was considered before the rules were set out. There is a positive trend that in 2015 and 2016 the number of draft laws processed by the government decreased and the number of plans to be developed increased after the start of the legislative programme. As in 2016 the planned development preceded 45% of the draft legislation submitted to the Ministry of Justice for coordination, the result could almost be satisfied. Almost. It is such a threefold story, but there is a great room for development. Around one third of the drafts launched by the government can be dealt with without intention of drafting, as stated in the principles of good lawmaking, because of the urgency and transposition of European Union law. At the same time, the government must make sure that the public debate does not go unpunished for legislative initiatives that have an important impact and are objectively not carried out quickly. Since 2014, the number of plans to develop has gradually increased, but this year's results are more modest: over seven months, the share of plans to develop in lawmaking amounted to a quarter. Of course, this cannot be an excuse, but its objective reason was undoubtedly the taking up of the new government. Estonia's political culture is such that governments realise their political programme in the so-called 100-day plan and this is reflected in the pace of legislation. This year, more than ever, there were exceptions to the possibility of abandoning the intention to develop, for example, when the initiative is urgent. However, I would like to stress that practice has shown that if, due to haste, the plan for development has not been drawn up and the public debate accompanying it has not been carried out, then the procedure may not go well because the first stage has not been removed. Stakeholders do not understand where solutions have emerged that have not been discussed with them, the lack of public debate does not allow legislators to gather essential information on impacts, and the solutions proposed are open to discussion with the wider legal community and may not be legally competent. It will also certainly cause problems for the language editors, who must provide a clear, accurate and correct legal language. Good regulation is not born quickly. According to developments in legal policies, the proposed law must be effective and the effects must be assessed for this purpose. For years, the Ministry of Justice has developed an impact assessment system, both through control and training and international cooperation, as the authority responsible for the quality of the government's legislative process and drafts. Compared to the past, more and better-quality figures are involved and the effects observed are more widely, including those that are indirectly caused by the changes. Although the capacity to assess impacts improves every year, there are serious problems here, because when drafting a legislative amendment, the laws on the economic environment often do not consider alternatives or compare alternatives with such a high degree of generalisation that the decision-making process becomes opaque. Now I'm talking about general dynamics. One third of the draft laws dealt with this year will increase the administrative burden on businesses to a greater or lesser extent, while the burden will only be reduced by one in four drafts. The administrative burden on people is better. Only 5% of the new drafts will add new responsibilities to citizens in their dealings with the country, while 18% will facilitate communication. Statistics also show a trend that is less addressed but worrying: every other bill increases the workload of the public sector, and only one out of every third draft reduces it. Since we are constantly looking for opportunities to save both the functions and costs of the public sector in Estonia, legislation should reduce the workload or administration of the public sector, otherwise there could easily be a situation where officials cannot handle their duties. Although the number of drafts and drafting plans that have not been agreed by the Ministry of Justice has decreased, it cannot be said that there has been a significant improvement in quality. There are problems with a number of urgent drafts, which is why the comments are much more than usual. It is not uncommon if the draft itself is much shorter, sometimes even several times shorter than objective legal criticism in the form of comments. The Trinity drafts reviewed by the Ministry of Justice for coordination within seven months of 2017 presented major language problems. It is particularly deplorable that there were also two new draft complete texts, which require particularly thorough work from the language editors. It should be stressed that the problem is not the competence of the language editors, but, in particular, the fact that language work is obviously not taken into account when designing the draft procedure. The clarity and simplicity of the rule of law in addition to mere linguistic correctness requires time and close cooperation between the editor of the language and the legislator. At the end of last year, we organised a legal language day and discussions on the same subject have continued this year, under the direction of both the Estonian and Estonian Language Institute and the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. A study has been carried out at the request of the British Government which has shown that a large number of readers of laws in electronic form are not lawyers and do not know exactly how the law works and what the links between legislation are. According to this example, we are not in a different situation. After the laws have started to appear electronically instead of the printed edition, the law is available to more people. Our National Journal will also focus on user-friendliness, creating additional opportunities for people with special needs, improving the comfort of search and other applications, and it is very important to add links to the information published that help to find information better. The central addition is currently linked to the fact that the current law, which has been published in the Riigikogu's Official Journal, seeks to relate to the Supreme Court's judgments, the thousands of decisions that help people understand the interpretation of the law and see the instructions given by the Supreme Court to interpret the law. What is important is what we do as a member of the European Union. Half of the legislation that is taking place in this Parliament is, to a large extent, the transposition of European Union law. The legal policy choices of the European Union in the field of the quality of legislation are also the cornerstone of the activities of the Ministry of Justice during the Estonian Presidency. After Midsummer, the Ministry of Justice organised a good legislative conference in the margins of the Presidency, where representatives of the European Union institutions and the OECD were gathered. The subject of this debate was science-based, inclusive and non-regulatory legislation. Good lawmaking and its implementation in digital society have been one of Estonia's horizontal priorities under the Presidency. We have considered it important that the leaders of all the working groups of the Council of the European Union follow the principles of better regulation. So that it was not just a slogan and it wasn't about itself, the Ministry of Justice prepared a one-page guide for all the team leaders. The guide sets out guidelines for assessing the quality of the impact assessments carried out by the European Commission, where Member States are expected to contribute. In order to implement the principles of legislative simplification, the Guide will guide the search for options to favour and introduce digital solutions. In our view, it is also important to call on the next Bulgarian Presidency to continue this working method and the same culture in these working groups. During the Presidency, we have been able to lead the establishment of an impact assessment system for the Council of the European Union in the Competitiveness and Growth Group, focusing on the development of a standard template for impact assessment, on which the quality of impact assessments on-demand and the creation of assumptions will depend for the future development of the Council's impact assessment system. These developments in legal policy apply until the end of next year. This is the right time to start a debate on which issues the legislator should consider more clearly in the developments in legal policy to be dealt with next year. I consider this format, that Parliament determines the course of justice policy, extremely important, because it is actually one of the clear requirements of the legislator in the broad framework of justice policy, say, preferences that it can set for the government. This, in my opinion, is important for the role of the legislator in the supervisory procedure. In fact, it is also a tool for the legislator to dictate what these expectations are, whether in terms of formal requirements, effects or other aspects, which legislation should meet. It is universal, given the very high level of the technocratic element and also the high level of transposition of European Union law. It is inevitably the case that in all countries, the government remains the main regulator of legislation. I very much hope that we will have constructive cooperation. I imagine that the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee should be a strong partner of the Ministry of Justice. I hope that new developments in legal policy will take place in good cooperation and involving Estonia's wider legal public, all political groups and, of course, all sectoral committees. Finally, I will mention some of the key words that I consider to be important in future developments in legal policy. It would certainly be important to define the intention to develop as a clear parliamentary requirement at the beginning of the legislative procedure. This would help to avoid problems caused by the shift of governments and also by the light-handed use of the urgency argument. Secondly, it would be extremely important to put in place the principles of EU participation in legislation as the direction of our judicial policy. It would also be important to put in place the legislative policy that is expected to involve stakeholders. In addition, I consider it important that developments in legal policy include what the legislator expects from the ex-post evaluation (i mean the effects that have been attributed to one or another legislative act at the time of development) and the rules and requirements for ex-post evaluation, as well as how Parliament can use this ex-post evaluation tool more strongly. Political forces have different visions, which should be regulated and how in some areas of life, so it could also be considered that the research centre of the established Parliament would serve political forces in carrying out legislative initiatives, helping to carry out impact analyses. This would be the stage of the intention to develop, the fight for political ideas that will be realised in the elections, essentially 'completed', then we would have alternatives whose impact analysis has been carried out in advance. Similarly, the ex-post evaluation of the impact of the'second opinion', or secondary opinion, is very important. At present, the ex-post evaluation system is structured in such a way that the government itself, on a large scale, evaluates its own draft and explanatory memorandum and later organises the ex-post evaluation itself. In the context of good regulation in the countries of the world, it has also been considered to be an "independent impact assessment body." I do not call for the creation of a large institution where cars are driven into stairs and so, but there could be an institution that is not directly subordinate to the government sector. Certainly, the aspect that we should take into account in the future is also the requirement of legal clarity and effectiveness, i.e. how, in practice, we can set these requirements in the development of legal policies. In short, this was my review of the current developments in legal policy. Legal policy and regulation are not a matter of their own; it is very much about the competitiveness of our country and how well citizens' rights are guaranteed. Clearly, legal clarity is one of its preconditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U94	Thank you very much to the Minister. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, the Home and Working Procedures Act allows everyone to ask a question. Well, the Hatter's the first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U95	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I am asking about the inclusion chapter, because for whom we are going to make these changes, it is for the people. That's the kind of questions that arise. How many interested parties do you have to have at all, if you can say that we want you to be involved, that inclusion is not formal and that the resulting inputs actually reach the decisions? Will the tools that have been developed, such as the EIS, remain in their current form, providing only "information" but not a model of full inclusion? We have a lot of links, but there is no general responsibility that the interested party would also feel expected in this process, and that is necessary for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U96	Thank you. Involvement in the country is the competence of the State Chancellery. The Committee on Legal Affairs had a debate on the EIS. In itself, interest groups can also add direct comments to the EIS, which requires authentication with an ID card or mobile ID. It has to be said that the EIS is a rather outdated document management system. I am not creating any illusion here, but I am saying that it has not been renewed for a long time, that only minor developments have been made in recent years. The most important information function in the EIS is that it is not by its very nature the most substantive. So if you ask whether this inclusion environment is such that we have taken advantage of all the digital opportunities to create this dialogue, I say no. I think there is also reason to present these expectations to the State Chancellery in the process of developing developments in legal policy. I'm sure they'll try to develop it. Now it's stuck where it was years ago. The question of the extent to which the circle of interested parties needed to be involved must be. In the case of inclusion, one of the most important problems on which I have seen criticism in the views of stakeholders is that it is like the dialogue between David and Goliath. In civil society, people do this work of their own free will; there are limited resources and time when compared to a very large institutional machine. One of the main problems is that the law is too late to be heard when the stage of drafting the draft is over or when the draft is on the last round of coordination. Look, I've been saying that once the draft is ready as a text, it's rather complicated. Officials will also be forced to do so. If the administration has an idea to resolve a matter and it has already become a form, then it is no longer possible to debate the principle but only the nuances. It is therefore very important that the format for active inclusion be launched precisely in the idea phase. This is also what the State Chancellery has considered important for inclusion, and we certainly want to force the State Chancellery to be guided by this logic. Of course, inclusion can be done in a formal way, but it can also be incorporated in a more substantive and active way. We have seen that on a number of very controversial issues, such as alcohol advertising, interest groups were very clearly in opposing positions and created... If you use the word 'latetes', it might sound condescending, let's say they created a social debate in a very large mass. The same has happened to some other sensitive social issue. In the case of such a debate, it is certainly important to include it in the debate. When a table of amendments is drawn up, containing the positions taken into account and not taken into account, and when the designer, supposedly the Ministry, has reached some points of view, he shall again give the parties involved the opportunity to state their position. Involvement does not require this, especially when it comes to conflicting viewpoints, that everything can be accounted for; it is already an arithmetically or formally exclusive task setting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U97	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question is a logical follow-up and concerns substantive inclusion. This can only be done if we follow good legislative practice and, of course, we are making plans for the development that I have already asked you about and I am asking you about today. It appears from the report that the intention to develop has been drawn up only for 25% of the drafts, which is still a very small percentage. All the more so when 32% of cases were justified by the urgency of the draft, it is very subjective, as you yourself said. This leads to the Minister responsible being able to say that the intention to develop would in no way contribute to legislation, and they decided so, but, for example, the target groups are asking for the law to be rejected because they were not involved at all and they have not been able to contribute. What concrete steps are you going to take to increase this percentage, when can you say that you are now satisfied with the situation, perhaps what is the action plan? How many drafts have you sent back from the Justice Department just because it didn't have a development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U99	Thank you. There are two logics to the drafts. First of all, it is clear that some parts of the drafts are, as I said, in particular, about the transposition of European Union law, which is a process that has been going on for a very long time, has been going on for years, the stages of inclusion have been completed earlier, and when the draft has, let us say, reached the final format, it would have been imitated by inclusion, the production of 'ballasts'. It can be said that a third of the drafts do not really need it, let's say, the aspect of the intention to be developed, I think it would be realistic according to the rule of thumb, but two thirds of the drafts do. I have also stressed that the intention to develop is not a formal issue. If there is a substantive impact analysis and the inclusion logic is taken into account in other ways than the formal form proposed by the government, then it can be taken into account in substance. No one is in favour of stellar chewing in order to produce more documents and technocracy like the thing in itself. While in government, whether in this government or in the previous government, my criticism has been universal. Yeah, I've left the drafts uncoordinated, I think, in 10% of cases. In my views, I have pointed out, and the general logic of the government is now that, if the government collegially decides in the Cabinet debate, on the basis of the substantive presentation of the substantive assessment or draft, that due to the urgency of the draft, this exception is necessary, the government must take a separate decision on this. But what is the reason why this proportion is now? The reason I brought up a change of government. In fact, in the political system, it is undoubtedly something that I cannot be satisfied with, because the normal quality of legislation is inevitably disturbed. There has been a legitimate political change and it is perfectly understandable that the government, of which I am a member, wants to implement its political agenda. But that is why I want to point out that this is a system error that we must jointly seek solutions to correct. In spring 2019, a new government will come with a similar agenda and a mandate to implement its ideas. Then there will be exactly the same problem because the government will change and there will be some sort of new approach. That is why I call for consideration to be given to how, above all, the debate on the impact of political ideas with more and more social impact can be held, so that this can also be taken into account when putting together political programmes. For example, if the Free Party had the idea to change tax policy in some form, such an analysis format would have been developed. In such a case, if this substantive "ultima ratio" test has been carried out, it can be used to prepare a draft form of inclusion. These draft laws, which have been without the intention of being developed, have not been uncoordinated, but each departure from the principle in a good legislative debate will certainly give rise to bubbles. It is obvious that all of this will then accumulate in Parliament, where people will express their concerns, but, as I said, the problem is that there is a paradigm created within which this bill already exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U100	I intend to give the floor to the Urve Tiidu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your report, you mentioned that one in three draft laws adds administrative burdens to businesses and one in four increases the workload of the public sector. You yourself have mentioned it, and many others have called it overregulation in society. To put it mildly, however, this is an increase in bureaucracy. I think that Estonia is not the first democratic country to state such a situation. However, how can we change this situation so that bureaucracy does not deepen further? Is there any risk that there's a limit to lawmaking anywhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U102	Thank you. No, I don't think there's a border. After all, the alphabet allows an infinite number of texts to be compiled when combining letters, permutating them. There's no limit, human fantasy is unlimited. But the law is divided into two parts. First of all, I believe that there is legislation that increases the competitiveness of our country, our economic environment, and second, there is legislation that inhibits it. It is not just a question of legislation as a technological tool, of how it is structured, but of course it is also an ideological question of a world-view debate: whether the new rules will lead to greater growth in the overall good or vice versa. I regard as one of the cornerstones of the so-called zero bureaucracy programme that the previous government started and that government has continued. I think there's a lot of sensible things going on. But what I want to say is that the government has set this as a goal of itself; it has taken as a political starting point how we will reduce the administrative burden. That's the goal. Another thing is that there are positive results in the area of communication with citizens, but the aim of reducing the administrative burden on businesses in this way has unfortunately not been realised. I think that these strategic expectations should be formulated precisely as requirements for the development of new legislative policies. When we talk about impact assessment and analysis, it works again as a very dry pulpit talk. But the real question is that if the impact has not been assessed in substance, it has not been made clear at all how much the administrative burden on businesses is. The public sector, the government sector, always has an interest in measuring the increase in its own administrative burden, as then hopefully in many cases this hope will be realised by increasing the budget, at least within the Ministry, for some kind of additional administrative task. In the case of third parties or non-government entities, this interest is much less vague.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U103	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will raise one additional aspect of the explanatory notes to the drafts, their readability and quality. It had recently happened that there were not only repeated reasonings, but repeated paragraphs, in the various parts of the rather extensive explanatory memorandum of one draft. They were pretty hard to find in a big text array, but that's how it was. The problem is certainly wider, the problem is called multiplicity and bad pulpit language. At times, officials are given the impression that they are paid for the length of the draft explanatory memorandum and not for its readability, clarity and quality. How about this? The better not only members of the Riigikogu, but all people can understand the drafts, the better the guarantor of this understanding is largely the explanatory memorandum, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U105	Thank you. The explanatory memorandum of the bill is important on certain issues, let's say, weight as a guide. When it comes to justice or even litigation, it may have a weight of evidence to explain and identify the will of the legislator, such as in the case of this judgment, when the increase in excise duty on beer was considered. That's a problem. The Ministry of Justice invites legislative lawyers to the round table and we have touched on this issue. There is a risk, by the way, that this also concerns the plans for the development of the text, that the idea is lost in the text, that the explanatory memorandum becomes a very long narrative or that the draft law is recounted. I don't know about this kind of thing, but I don't know that somewhere in the administration, it would be a very dangerous line and a ruble. But I think that there is also a serious problem for the legislator, if we can imagine just how to get the point out of a purely mechanical information array. Here is a good example of this, I also set this example in the Committee on Legal Affairs, in the annual reports and audits of the National Audit Office. Of course, Nemvalts cartoons may also be used, but the explanatory statement of the bill must be written in such a way as to give a brief overview of the key issue that is regulated or sought. But it must be acknowledged that the problem with most of the draft laws is that this brief summary is too euphemised or with too much generalisation. As we know, especially you as an old literate and poet, in many cases a short text can be much more difficult to produce than a long text. This is certainly also a question of skill. Let us put this expectation, as Chekhov said, that shortness is a gift sister. I think that would be the virtue of the explanatory notes, not the problem. I really think that if the explanatory notes have tens of pages in length, it is obvious that this is not an elusive order of magnitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U106	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your report, as well as in your replies, you were slightly concerned with the level of impact assessment. I dare say that in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, this part of the impact assessment is very far-reaching and that it is immediately understood that it has not been dealt with. As Minister of Justice, what do you think needs to be done in the country to decisively improve the quality of the impact assessment? Is enough involvement of our social scientists?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U108	Thank you. This is one of the themes on which we want to better formulate expectations, together with social scientists, in proposing the starting points for new developments in legal policy. As I said, this is a forward-looking area of lawmaking around the world, here we have nothing unique. But when we talk about expectations for impact assessment, it is clear that political logic means that there are two football teams, the opposition and the coalition, the coalition has put forward some kind of draft law, and it is up to the opposing team to make criticism, not in a bad sense, but it is the objective role of the opposition, and it is up to one team to do so. I think that the development of Parliament's own identity, where there are two teams in a good way: Parliament and the government, is very important. These relationships still change. Figuratively speaking, it is important for the committee to be demanding in its assessment of the impact, regardless of its political proportion or proportion. The starting point for the Commission must be that, where effects have not been adequately assessed, a second assessment is required. This is where I see the role of solving issues with a very high degree of generalisation, and I am thinking, for example, of the demographic problems of this strategy centre or of this unit of analysis that is transferred from the development fund. When we talk about the most practical tool that Parliament needs, it is actually an impact assessment team that can criticise and say that what is in the government's or any ministry's draft is bullshit, or at least it could put an alternative on the table for evaluation. Then it is possible to debate objectively whether the chosen path is rational or not. Ideological issues are subjective and solutions are voting and a political mandate. But the question is, what are the reasons for this ideological choice? I think it must be under objective criticism. You see, there will also be a real political responsibility component, there will be political responsibility for ministers, there will also be officials: you put this concept on the table with such expected effects, but as the ex-post evaluation shows, the results have been reversed, so something has gone wrong. Responsibility can come about in such a way that someone can fight, but also in such a way that things can be corrected. It is not taken in such a way that everyone is stuck in the truth of his God and is not able to correct it. Therefore, I should also be reasonable in the development of legal policies, so that in the future the implementing rule of the law can be such that the law enters into force at some date and includes an implementing guide that Parliament will be obliged to produce an impact assessment document in a year's time. I don't think there's anything weird about that. I think that would be a pretty good precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U109	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U110	Thank you. Dear Minister, I ask for your comment on one record, which has been written by Estonian newspapers in recent days and is now written by Finnish newspapers. How is it possible that one person is actually sentenced to 35 times in prison? It is not the 35th time he is punished, but the 35th time he is sentenced to a real prison sentence. Is there something wrong with the legislation, or is there something wrong with the trial? I'm not asking if it's normal, but is it possible in itself? My mind already has a very extreme sixth or seventh time, but a real prison sentence 35 times, can you comment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U111	The penalty imposed shall be proportionate to the offence. In some type of country, the solution could be to be found guilty once, but for a lifetime that would clearly be inhumane and would not be in line with the rule of law today. I read the Postman article myself. Of course, it is regrettable that man's way of life has gone like this, isn't it, in Viljandi, where that uncle stole the candy and what other things he had stolen there? I think the article included a thought that he just wanted to get warm in the fall. But, in fact, the core of criminal policy that we are dealing with is preventing repetition in order to avoid repeated criminal activity. There is nothing to say, the general dynamics are that what younger man gets into a poor path, and if we do not have enough leverage to stop him, the more likely he will develop a regressive pattern of behavior, and the more likely he will do so. The court shall rule on the law, taking into account or to a certain extent the person's activities so far. I think two things are important. I don't know how to analyze this particular person's case, but it's also clear from the age of the person that society's chances of influencing him to go on a law-abiding road are becoming more and more awkward. It is possible that greater attention should be paid to support opportunities for the social system for this person. I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice is planning to come up with the solution that, true to the persons who committed repeated crimes, we have been thinking about crimes against individuals, that this man must have had one of those incidents, that he attacked the dentist, that there was also an anti-personal behaviour, or that there was a danger to another person, that we could apply a mandatory post-detention behavioural check. Right now, it's like a person's sentence may be a month in prison, but if he's released before the deadline, he's going under behavioural control, under probation. (For this person, it is unlikely to be released before the deadline in view of his or her behaviour to date.) A person released before the deadline must, figuratively speaking, visit the probation worker every week and have some kind of supporter. But the most dangerous person, who is released from prison on time without being released in advance, has no supporter. Then there is all hope for the social system of the local government, but it is not built to serve this type of group of people. We have chosen the path that we propose in the autumn with the draft law that, above all, the more dangerous, likely to be more regressive, criminals who commit crimes against persons, must have mandatory behavioural checks after being released from prison, be subject to certain restrictions and should go to the probation officer. Since there is an objectively higher likelihood that he will commit a new crime, the state should therefore deal with him in the interests of the safety of society and other people, which would also be more reasonable and secure in terms of the person's own course of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U112	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U113	Good manager! Good waitress! According to the Constitution, we should lead the Estonian state and issue laws. But, Minister of Justice, you had a very interesting presentation, by the way! I'm reading that you're actually offering us some pretty suspicious stuff as drafts, not to say trash. 60% of the drafts we have adopted this year will be revised before spring. A quarter of the drafts have an intention to develop, while two thirds of these plans to develop are, to put it mildly, suspicious, not to say scum. In the case of 10%, there is a suspicion that the drafts are unconstitutional, that one in three is contrary to the stem laws of the sector, and that every other law that we adopt here will increase the workload of the public sector. My question to you, as Minister of Justice, is: what can we do here when we have this stuff on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U114	Thank you. Peter, thank you for this beautiful summary. First of all, you have to put this thing in the background system. It really looks like chaos and jungle all around. I think that if we put it in the right perspective, it is clear that the model we have designed, the 'quality model', is actually close to ideal. Figuratively speaking, the ideal model of an athlete is also how many human abilities can be technologically realised. Of course, practical action will always be digressed from this, for which there is a safety net in the form of coordination mechanisms, for example, concerning the violation of the Constitution or the controversy as to why the Ministry of Justice is still coordinating further. In legislative policy developments, Parliament has proposed a benchmark. Reference, 100%, pure gold, clean boiling point, right? My review was a passionate, rational assessment of the level of achievement of this standard. I could have embellished and said, "You see, everything works in general and so on." After all, the Estonian state is undoubtedly the rule of law, it functions, the whole system works in good faith, but if we want to improve the quality of life in our society, then the key word or aspect here is also the way we organise the rules of social life. It concerns the economic environment, it concerns the well-being of people themselves, it also concerns the optimum use of public resources. What should Parliament do now with such knowledge? I would like to say that it is precisely the political forces, the political groups, but also the committees in the field that are the starting point for formulating the level of expectations that we would like in the future and which we should make better in our legislation in a measurable way. The vague talk that laws should be better and better quality does not clearly contribute to change, but lands in the void, into outer space. That is why it is the starting point or the tool that Parliament has at its disposal, namely developments in legal policy. My call is for us to formulate these principles or rules in a measurable way in the development of legal policy, whatever government we have in the future, so that we provide the government with certain frameworks that it cannot deviate from. The developments in legal policy are now clearly a policy document; it is not a law-forced document. This political or administrative culture, which concerns the preparatory phase of legislation, can also be clearly realised by a stronger mandate if Parliament has an interest in it and is realised in these specific proposals and legislative developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U115	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice, thank you very much for your review. I have a question for you and I would like to know your personal position. We have very, very many development plans, we have different colour books, from greens to whites and other color books, which have been produced by professionals in the sector, but also by a very large number of stakeholders and social partners. They do this for another year, doing such preparatory work. Do you think it could be considered as a development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U117	Sure. If it meets the substantive objectives, there is no question here. There is no need to pursue bureaucracy; bureaucracy in itself is irrational. If the actual impact analysis has been carried out as a test in a document bearing another name, then it can undoubtedly be regarded as essentially that, once the stage of inclusion has been completed and the conviction has been reached that some legal regulation is necessary. But here it is a condition that it must meet its substantive objectives. I'm a long way from fetishing things as things in myself, that's not the point. What is important is that these effects have been assessed, they can be objectively criticised by social science and quantitative methods, that they are not just 'an ideological slogans'. It is important that stakeholders are also given the opportunity to express their views on the impact assessment. The burden of proof and justification lies with the draft designer, who must say why no position is in favour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U118	Hanno Pekvur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U119	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! It seems to me that your coalition partners are not happy with your work and, looking at the report you presented to us, you do not seem to be satisfied with yourself either. I read about this report that due to the urgency argument, it has been abandoned the intention to develop a number of drafts with significant impact and major changes: spring tax changes, changes to the draft state budget law, fundamental changes to the basic law of the state budget, the creation of a short procedure as a new type of procedure in the misdemeanour procedure, the proposal to grant the right to exercise direct coercion to municipal law enforcement officials, etc. This all took place during the first half of the year. You are also satisfied with what is going on in Estonian legislation, and do you not feel that you should tell the people of Estonia what you have done as Minister of Justice and what you are doing to prevent such nonsense from reaching this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U120	Thank you. 'Bullshit' is judgment. [[Laughing.]] I will do what I did in spring 2015, when I was also Minister of Justice. A new government, though in a different composition or a government with a different political mandate and a political programme, also took office. Exactly the same then was the number of things the government did quickly to obtain revenue or to implement its ideological programme. I have pointed out that this is a universal issue. There is no point in saying that this government is bad or the previous one was worse or is bad or what was the previous one or the previous one. This is a universal issue and a problem. In fact, when the new government takes office, the so-called fast cycle is intended to make socio-economic changes. The objective fact is also that when things are done quickly, quality gets worse. How Can I Find Balance? I proposed an 'ex-post' evaluation, an ex-post evaluation, that we correct this issue by means of a parliamentary consensus with legislative orientations. I would point out that this debate has progressed. If some drafts have not had a plan to develop, then the debate has simply moved on from the point of view of the draft, and then there is no debate, in many cases at least there is no debate. But the truth is that when we talk about how to achieve the quality of legislation, it must be borne in mind that it is not a quantitatively feasible step, but is part of the country's political and administrative culture, it is absolutely clear. It cannot be said that we will achieve the quality of legislation for this or for this date, for example, by 1 May, the festival of the working people. I can't. This is a constant effort with the help of various very strong social players, and this issue represents a paradigmical change in our legislative system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U121	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U122	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Police officers exposed to problems and issues related to the sexual relations of minors are in trouble because they cannot justify parents' expectations. A few years ago, you also said in the media that these issues need to be investigated and resolved. How far away are you with this thing? Are the so-called reflections on these issues coming to an end, or do you not think they are problems and they do not need to be resolved, and everything will remain as the law currently provides for, for example, the relationship between minors?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U123	Children's sexual immunity, their physical integrity, is certainly a crucial legal benefit. The Ministry of Justice is certainly planning to come up with amendments to the Penal Code in the near future, which, among other things, provides for the possibility to understand total relapsed paedophiles up to life imprisonment, as well as mandatory behavioural checks after release. What have we done? We've made some changes to the Penal Code. Although the limit on the right to sexual self-determination is 14 years of age, in fact, access to criminalised sexual relations with a young person under the age of 18 is also a person who is in a position to do so. This means, figuratively speaking, that if a boy or a girl tries to take advantage, for example, of his coach, who does so by taking advantage of his influence and authority, it is criminalised. The purchase of prostitute services has also been criminalised under age. On the relationship between minors, I remember you once asked me in Riigikogu Question Time. In one category, there was a rather peculiar competition in how to interpret one norm or another. The Ministry's criminal policy experts analyzed it quite thoroughly. That was the right question, the clever and complicated question you asked. We found one type of answer to interpret it. I can send it to you later in writing. There is still a wide protected area. But when it comes to two young people, we have to admit that there are exceptions in very many countries here. While a young person with a relatively small age gap is still entering into a relationship with another young person of prohibited age, some countries have found that it is not criminalising, that is the so-called Romeo and Julia provision. There is no such exception in Estonia. The debate in Estonia has also been over the fact that, if you look at the countries of our immediate region, you can say that the limit of the right to sexual self-determination, 14 years, is too low. It is, I think, a matter of a purely serious social debate. The right thing is that we are different from neighbouring countries when we talk about 14 years of age. But the starting point is the protection of minors' right to self-determination. This must be the framework in which the state realises its compulsion, also its banning and rule-setting powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U124	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U125	Thank you. I am asking about the law on weapons drawn up in the Ministry of the Interior, which has recently arrived in the Riigikogu. Several interest groups were apparently involved in the discussions and the drafting of this draft, the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Ministry of Justice were asked to give their opinion. However, most of these proposals were not taken into account, although there were quite serious complaints that this bill would create a considerable legal confusion, particularly as to whether a person would be allowed to acquire weapons for self-defence or extend the permit. All of this was left entirely dependent on the subjective decision of the official without any criteria being set. Despite all the comments, the draft was sent here. How do you assess such legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U126	Thank you. This bill was done for quite a long time. I am not going to go into specific details, I do not have such competence in subtleties either, but, according to my findings, there were quite a number of engagement circles or events, and this bill was prepared for years. Hanno can be more specific, but I think this initiative was done for three or four years. On the one hand, it was driven by the external environment, by the security implications that were to be taken into account in the new arms law, so that we ourselves can control who owns the weapon, also bearing in mind the people who are as hostile as possible to Estonia's statehood, the events of Ukraine, etc. The second aspect was there, wasn't it, initiatives to harmonise European Union law. The third perspective was that, I think, was still based on the security needs of society, be it defence or private security, security. In fact, the right to possess a lawful weapon is a security-enhancing, not harmful, factor. It's difficult to find a balance here. It seems to me that the Ministry of the Interior considers the consideration that more extensive restrictions will lead to more security, but (it is very interesting here this issue of impact analysis) we need to formulate precisely what type of security we want to increase. In my opinion, this is precisely the issue of these green men, which is, above all, the strategic security interest of the state. I do not know how to assess this in a remote view, but it is precisely in this draft that Members of Parliament could also, in committee, have a number of aspects here, that the views of both the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Legal Affairs could be seen to see whether the effects that have been hoped for have been assessed with objective social science logic. However, the starting point must be that you also pointed out that if red tape can be reduced, it must be done. I think that the virtue is that it is possible to do so on this draft. But I wouldn't beat up the law of guns in myself. I've met these interest groups, too, years ago. It seemed to me that in the end, certain groups were admitting this conclusion, but now that there is a practical catalogue on the table, there is a nuance that is to be considered again, Parliament will have this work to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U127	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will return to the language questions once again. I think it has already been mentioned here that one third of the drafts, which were reviewed in seven months 2017, had major language problems. How will work on these problems take place in areas such as cyber, which must also be covered by laws? There are many English terminology that are also reflected in the laws. This should be dealt with in depth, and these laws should be formulated in a simple Estonian language so that they can be understood and understood. What is the work currently being done in this area, especially in terms of terminology? Part of it has already been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U129	Thank you. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for coordinating the legal language; it has this coordinating role; the language editors and language lawyers of the field are in the Ministries of Speciality. We are organizing events on this subject, we are publishing a magazine with a distinctly very specific readership, Legal Language. A very good example is the Ministry of Defence, where sector terminology is very clearly and systematically established, where there is a corresponding terminology committee. It does not necessarily deal with legal terminology; it is simply the so-called Estonian-language development of concepts used in the Defence Forces. Sometimes it seems to me that it is a question of discussion, that sometimes linguistic incomprehension can also result in the temptation to use a new word instead of anglicism or a word for a loan. I've realized that sometimes it can be a problem. But sometimes we all have to read the paperwork in Estonian, but just don't understand, the words are correct, but they still don't understand. Then something has gone wrong in the language, whether the text is too long or something else. Since the text of rights affects people's lives in a literal sense, it affects people's freedom and wealth, the legal clarity of the legal text is most important in order to make the text unambiguous for those applying the rule. It can't be the way it was, "don't let go" where there are commas. Sometimes the linguistic clarity of the text fades away from the application for legal clarity. Then we have to admit that legal clarity is the most important interest. You mentioned new technologies or new areas. The draft cyber law, which should come to the government for discussion in the coming months, will certainly be the subject of this issue. The problem is, in itself, that Parliament has missed one tool that I think could be considered when drawing up new developments in legal policy. The government has such a thing as a legislative work plan. In essence, it will usually be ready for the second quarter, already in the current year. It states what the government's legal policy initiatives are and what laws it wants to change. I think it might be worth considering that if, according to the current procedure, the President and President of the Riigikogu are present at the opening session of Parliament, why should it not be the case that the Prime Minister also appears here in the autumn and introduces the legislative plan for the following season? This would also be the subject of political discussion or good criticism, just as when the government is presenting a draft state budget law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U130	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U131	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Unlike us, you have an opposition with a thorough experience of government. I have always hoped that you would also take this into account in the legislative process if you expressed an opinion on the drafts. We are not necessarily teasing, we may have a proper bill and we want to solve a serious problem. One of the things I started when I was in the government with you was the teacher's bill of rights. This was very closely coordinated, with a very comprehensive explanatory memorandum, taking into account international experience and legal analysis. Now when we presented it freshly, the government took a negative view of it. We did not claim to authorship, we argued that the pace would be fast. Nothing happened in a year, and we filed the bill. You said no. Will it be the automatic direction of legal policy in the future that the government gives a negative view because the author is wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U132	Thank you for such a pious question. I would be hypocritical if I were to say that Jürgen Ligi once held office as Minister of Finance gave a negative opinion only because the author was wrong. I don't think there were any cases. It would be absurd even to arbitrarily construct these cases here or to forge reality. But let's talk about ensuring safety at school, what's the purpose of this bill? We were together at the end of August and September with the Minister of Education and the Minister of the Interior to discuss this. The Ministry of Education has the concept of a bill. There are a number of important aspects, one by one, the principles of general order protection, the other by another, legitimate security considerations, as well as the practical application of all this in schools. We had a serious discussion. The Ministry of Education has promised to come up with its draft and proposals. I think the place of thrust is similar to the one you submitted, which was prepared in the ministry in its time with the help of experts, it has not come out of nowhere. The reason why the government did not support this draft in the proposed form is that in the near future, the government intends to at least this was the education minister's assessment of the draft. However, the government admitted to the problem and was not timid with words of praise or recognition. Undoubtedly, it was Jürgen's manly move, the right move. I think it also encouraged the government maybe even to pick up the pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U133	No further questions. Thank you to the Minister. You will have the opportunity to speak again if you so wish. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Jaanus Karilaid represents the Estonian Centre Party on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U134	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Minister for Justice for his thorough presentation on the implementation of the principles of good lawmaking. However, even better regulation and the pursuit of ideals should not go beyond real life. The reality is something else. There have been several drafts in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, the objectives of which have not been realised. For example, some drafts allow thousands of jobs and dare to add a time dimension when these jobs will be created, but when the allowed time comes, there will be no jobs and no one will even remember what the original purpose of the draft was. They say one thing and sometimes they do another. This is why there is a contradiction between high-quality legislation and political order or political will. Political will wants results now, high-quality regulation requires thorough and long-term analysis and consideration. However, good lawmaking alone does nothing if compliance with good practice is lost in the real sense of the change and in the relation to life. Rather, the concern lies in alienating legislation from life. For example, if you ask whether people receive high-quality legal assistance or if the legal costs are too high, the answer is that few can afford high-quality legal assistance and lengthy trials. What the quality of the legal assistance provided is, we must only begin to assess in a comprehensive manner. Since Estonia regained independence, we have successfully and quickly furnished the legal space of our country. There are currently 382 laws in force in Estonia. Certainly, the people of their country should be given the opportunity to feel more stability and legal certainty, not to change laws often, nor to reform just for the sake of reforms or a political signal. Let us not forget that the principles and rules of good regulation are an instrument, not an end in itself. The good regulation process is important, but this process must lead us to a better life. We should not be fascinated by our own imaginary tool, but we should measure and consider whether the work it does is effective. Parliament can use parliamentary control tools: the right to question and ask, which is mainly realised through questioning, questioning or asking a written question in Question Time. In addition, Riigikogu committees often organise parliamentary hearings aimed at getting an overview of the specific field and its problems. I would like the Riigikogu committees to place more emphasis on parliamentary hearings, because this is our opportunity to evaluate our work as legislators and to get feedback through implementation practice. It is a pleasure that due to the thorough preparation of the government, the lack of quality drafts are reaching the Riigikogu proceedings. The role of the Riigikogu is to assess the political choices and the quality of these on our tables. Riigikogu committees involve those affected by the choices in the discussions. It is important that the Riigikogu has sufficient time to involve stakeholders and to reach the best choices with them when dealing with drafts. I hope that there will be a reduction in the number of drafts that can only be processed in the Riigikogu for a few weeks due to the deadline for the entry into force of the Act. A balanced approach, a hearing of the parties, consideration of views and realistic impact analyses should ensure that legislation is based on the real regulatory needs of the sector and does not increase the number of light-handed legislative changes or new laws and avoid overregulation. Let us not forget that laws are only human rules. The rulebook, which has no connection to life, is useless. Finally. I think it is necessary for us to be able to start a parliamentary review of the legislation in force sometime, in a comprehensive manner and in cooperation with the ministries. This would be a clear, real and positive step forward. It's quite the end of a little statistical fragment. The laws that still apply, but come from the time of the Supreme Council, are five: the Housing Act, the Agricultural Reform Act, the Law on the Privatization of the Property of Gardening and Summer Cooperatives, and a few more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U135	Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I also read with interest the presentation on the implementation of legal policy developments in 2017. Yes, very interesting reading material. From the very beginning, there is such a good quote: 'The legislative process is at the heart of the implementation of good lawmaking, both in Estonia and in the rest of the world, because if it meets agreed standards, the quality of the content of legislation will also improve. " Very correct and conveying the whole point of the document! I guess it's so in every area that when things are done properly, they don't have to be patched or repaired right away. Says a proverb to measure and cut once nine times. Then we get a good result. As we know, the code of good regulation and regulation, or HAPPE, entered into force as early as 2012. The requirements set out in the design intention, concept, impact analysis and ex-post impact assessment were subject to a transitional period of two years after its adoption. So we could say that everything that was recorded in 2012 should already be implemented smoothly and smoothly. But inevitably, there is still a question of whether this is the case. In this sense, it is good to read this report that it is quite objective, does not embellished things and is critical enough, as areas where shoe still squeezes and development could be faster have been highlighted. As in previous years, it must now be acknowledged that plans to develop are not being carried out in sufficient or anticipated numbers. It should be noted that in 2017 the share of such drafts in the draft procedure even decreased. At the same time, it is quite right to point out that the legislation that starts with the development plan is more up-to-date, better quality and takes greater account of the views of stakeholders. Inevitably, the question arises again as to why this development plan is not being carried out if it is so good. The urgency of a particular draft is often referred to. I can give two examples that I myself have encountered in the Committee on Legal Affairs. First, the law amending the arms law, second, the law amending the law on military service and other laws. After all, discussing the need to amend both laws is a beard story. However, the planned work was not carried out, justifying the urgency of the draft act and the urgent need. That's not entirely true. Is it not a problem, however, that the Ministry of Justice is not demanding enough and has too raw drafts submitted to Parliament? It can certainly also be justified by the fact that the legal quality of the drafts is rather volatile and the legal language used in the drafts, the linguistic structures there and the drag of the wording drives mad not only the taintgeger, but also, in some cases, the Members who, at the same time, should understand in detail what we are voting for or against. The report points out that 9% of the submitted drafts identified a major or minor problem of constitutionality and that a third were contrary to the core laws of the sector. Does this not mean, to put it mildly, that the sector's legal services have an attitude toward their work? Half a minute more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U137	You'll get more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U138	In my view, the explanatory notes and amendments to the drafts are also a problem. At times, these texts are so long and shrivelling that when they come to an end, the point has already been lost. But the good news is that the Ministry of Justice has promised to start more effective and demanding controls in the area of lawmaking. All I want is strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U139	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Liisa Oviir, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U140	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, of course, I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a meaningful presentation. However, I will begin my speech with the words of the Chancellor of Justice from the Annual Review of his activities, which he introduced to the Riigikogu at the beginning of the autumn of this year: 'Every new law and norm should aim to make sense and justice, to make life in Estonia better. In the spirit of the Constitution, Estonia would be moving towards ensuring that all standards that organise life are understandable, reasonable and enforceable, and that in practice compliance with them is ensured. Legislation that cannot be understood, cannot be reasonably enforced and not guaranteed weakens the rule of law. What's more, they're not really needed. ' The Riigikogu's decision on developments in legal policy is an important document in the formulation of legal policy and compliance with it ensures better quality of lawmaking. The Minister of Justice also presented a description of good lawmaking in his presentation. At an early stage in the development of legislation, there must be a public consultation analysing ways of resolving problems and asking whether there is an urgent need to amend the law or whether another instrument is appropriate to solve the problem. The aim is to avoid contentless regulation. This is why the intention to develop is important as a starting point for legislation. In-depth and well-considered action at the very first stages of the legislative process is undoubtedly necessary and will contribute to ensuring legal clarity and high-quality regulation, but it is all the more important that it helps to prevent overregulation and the proliferation of red tape. However, as you can hear from the report, a number of ministries have shown reluctance to draw up plans for development and have found reasons why it should not be drafted. The cases in which the prior existence of various policy documents or the urgency of the draft could rule out the obligation to draw up a draft intention have led to disputes. I am convinced that this issue needs more precise regulation. For example, Green Papers are part of the policy-making process in Estonia. They describe the problems and the existing situation and analyse views and alternative solutions. It is also common for specific proposals, including regulatory measures to change the situation, to be drawn up on the basis of the views of the parties in order to address the problems. They will be used for discussion and consultation of the parties and will ultimately lead to political choices. As a result, I believe that, if any important issue has been analysed in the Green Paper and the essential elements of the intention to develop are already described, it is no longer reasonable to require the preparation of a separate plan for development. Nor should a programme of development be drawn up where the constitutional institutions have found that a specific rule of law is unconstitutional or creates an illegal situation and it is therefore necessary to amend the law. However, these specific bases should be clearly stated in the code of good regulation and regulation. The current situation, in which the government does not comply with its own regulation, is clearly regrettable. I am certainly in agreement with the fact that the failure to draw up an intention to develop does not exempt the public debate. The public must be informed of the reasons for one or the other of the regulatory solutions chosen and their effects, as well as the comments, thoughts and proposals that are public-sounding. Formal inclusion is not really inclusive, and it is clearly harmful in the long term. In his presentation, the Minister of Justice also outlined the subject of the ex-post evaluation of the law. He noted that, unfortunately, the ex-post evaluation has not yet become a natural part of the legislative process and is not actively engaged in it. We believe that an assessment of the functioning of the existing law is at least as important as the creation of a new law. We therefore hope that the government will pay as much attention to the ex-post evaluation of legislation as to new initiatives in the future. The Ministry of Justice's plan to start monitoring compliance with the ex-post evaluation obligation is certainly a step forward. Next, I would like to emphasise our constitutional right, duty, role and responsibility as members of the Riigikogu in ensuring high-quality legislation. I would like to remind you that the Riigikogu made the decision of 23 February 2011, which confirmed 'The Developments of Legal Policy until 2018', the Government of the Republic's obligation to analyse the necessity of all new laws and the desirable and undesirable effects of changes. In a parliamentary state, it is common for the government to initiate most draft laws and assess their necessity and impact. But our constitutional duty, i.e. the Constitutional duty of the Riigikogu, is to actively assess the necessity of standards and the alternatives to the regulatory measures chosen, and ultimately to make the most appropriate and useful decision to protect people's constitutional rights. It is the Riigikogu that can demand the comprehension of laws and the answer to the question how the new norm will actually improve the lives of Estonian people. If the norm is not understood or implemented or does not make life substantially better, then it is not needed. The constitutional law of the Riigikogu or, even more so, the constitutional obligation is in this case not to make these changes. We must remember that the law is an instrument, not an end in itself. The law must be accurate and understandable, in accordance with other laws, and must accompany life's developments. We must avoid legislation that our very best legal scientists have described as excessive, poor quality and, at times, a collective one. In the final part of the presentation, the proposed changes to the data protection reform will certainly need to be mentioned. On 25 May of the coming year, the European General Data Protection Regulation will enter into force, which, while directly applicable and not to be rewritten into national law, will require a review of our national legislation. The report states that the Ministry of Justice is drafting a new Personal Data Protection Act and therefore numerous other data protection laws need to be amended. At this point, I would like to put the Minister for Justice to heart that these drafts should be sent to the public coordination circle in good time, and the Ministry of Justice would seriously monitor that sufficient time is left for us, i.e. Parliament, to deal with them. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Justice for its commendable work on increasing access to legal information. In fact, consistent developments in the National Journal of the Network allow people to search for and find legal information more easily. Easy and quick access to existing law and legal information will certainly increase people's legal awareness. It is also worth commending the Ministry of Justice's plan to create additional opportunities for people with special needs by improving the comfort of search and other applications. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice and wish to continue to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U141	Hanno Pevkur on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U142	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Minister of Justice, I'm glad you've stayed to hear what Members have to say to you. But as I said in my question, and as I felt in the speeches, it seems that fellow coalitioners also have some reproach on you. I guess you have to look properly in the mirror to see what's gone wrong. I have some comments on this report. First of all, I am pleased that I have the courage to say what is wrong. But I'm not happy that I can't see from here what's going to be done to change these bad tendencies. I read here: 'This year, questions requiring urgent processing have mostly been approved earlier by the Cabinet. " It's as if it's an excuse why the intention to develop has not been made. That's definitely not a good tone. Let us look at the drafts that have arrived in Parliament. The changes made to health insurance and the health insurance fund reached this hall without having been negotiated with employers. How can that be? The logic of health insurance has always and mostly been that it is an insurance mechanism. Now the government is going to change it under the leadership of the Minister for Health and Labour. This is such a fundamental change that it would certainly have been necessary to develop an intention and negotiate it with employers. Let's take a look at that report. As I said in my question, if the tax changes, the draft state budget law and other fundamental choices are left without the intention of being developed, this is a very serious problem. The duty of the Minister of Justice is directly to ensure the balanced development of Estonia's legal space and also to avoid overregulation, but it seems to me that we have gone a little bit jealous with our development and legal policy. There has been bad legislation in this Chamber and sometimes even dirty legislation. It has also been tried to improve it here, but according to the coalition's will, as you yourself have admitted, the coalition has a desire to do something quickly, the laws are passed, even though the effects have not been evaluated. This has also been assessed by the President of the Republic, who sent the sweetened beverage tax back to Parliament. I am also concerned about what you have also mentioned in your answers: legal clarity and language clarity. That's the problem. We understand that legislation in general is not necessary for this hall here or for lawyers or lawyers. This is what we need as ordinary people and all the people of Estonia. They must understand this right. If we create a right whose language is so complicated that only a lawyer or even a lawyer can understand it, then that should not be the case. There is still a lot of work to be done with the clarity of the legal language. I don't want to talk for a long time here, and I'm gonna sum it up. Firstly, the problem is certainly that no plans for development are being made, that is being circumvented. Secondly, I mention inclusion. This is something that will help prevent dirty legislation. Third, language is important. The legal language must be clear and understandable for every person. Fourthly, I have a more general comment, which I also said in this Chamber in the spring of the debate on the business environment and the future of the economy. One could aim at 50% less legislation in Estonia after a while than today, with less bureaucracy and fewer restrictions on entrepreneurship. I think that would benefit everyone, both the Estonian economy and the business environment. This report shows that many drafts increase the administrative burden as well as the burden on the state. It is clear that this is not the direction we would like to see. Less legal space means less bureaucracy and more freedom in the economy. This is what Estonia should be moving towards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U143	Please, Külliki Kübarsepp on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U144	The debate on the quality of legislation could be expanded and discussed on what our political culture could be, more specifically, the role of the Riigikogu in society. The document submitted focuses mainly on the lawmaking of ministries, but the basis of our regime is different: we, the Riigikogu, should be the one who initiates topics, has heated debates and makes these decisions, and it is the government that implements these laws. But, unfortunately, our political affairs have become reversed over time and, therefore, the name 'gum stamp' has become very active; the Riigikogu is the rubber stamp of the government. We want to admit it or we don't want to, but that's the way it is. I think that we should deal with this issue more broadly in this Chamber, and we should talk more specifically about the amendments to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which has also been initiated by the Council of Elders, but which, in the two and a half years after this membership has worked, has essentially not been achieved anywhere. The previous speakers made a number of observations. I am very sorry that the members of the coalition who have spoken here today and who, in one way or another, have the power to change the coalition's activities in the direction they spoke about today have not done so. The political will to deal with people's needs is of secondary importance, and the path of faster solutions has been followed, which has led to a decrease in the proportion of plans to develop. If you look at the statistics, you can see that the proportion of planned development really is only 25%. The inclusion chapter shows that 23 out of 26 cases understand why stakeholders are or are not involved, and in three cases there is no understanding of why an intention to develop has been made. I'm gonna mark a bottleneck here. It is the processing of directives, which is quite confusing in legislation, because it is very technical and complex and direct translations do not take into account the practical situation. The most bizarre thing is that Urmas Reinsalu has failed on several occasions in the Committee on Legal Affairs to come before the committee, i.e. the Riigikogu, when the deadline for implementation has long expired, and then the Riigikogu will be forced to state that it is necessary to confirm it quickly. But this means that the quality of legislation is deteriorating, because there is no time to understand what we are talking about at all. Since the deadline has fallen, we must act. But these are not the foundations that guarantee high-quality legislation. I congratulate Minister Reinsalu on his honesty today when he spoke about inclusion and engagement opportunities that do not work. This is a major concern of stakeholders that Estonia wants to be a large digital state, an e-state, but we are even behind China in order to create basic opportunities for e-participation. Is this the image we want for our country? Although we have made many developments in cooperation with the State Chancellery, the latest is the popular initiative.ee, through which citizens can submit collective appeals to the Riigikogu. Since we were born there is a parta.ee, which could, of course, also be interactive, there is an EIS, which is the information system for drafts. But unfortunately, everyone feels that they are not working well and that they are too fragmented. There's no one clear responsible. Why did I ask how many interested parties needed to start an active and substantive cooperation? Stakeholders have the impression that they do not really want to be heard. However, it is possible to find these solutions and, as the Minister himself said, the aim of the intention to develop could be that all stakeholders should be involved at the beginning of the idea, the issue of not being taken into account and being dealt with here at all will not arise at the final stage of the procedure of the draft. We should create those opportunities. Since time has gone so far, it is possible to replace this rape with e-developments. Of course, it is not a substitute for real combinations, which are very necessary. Raivo Time gave an example in his speech of the Arms Act, which we will be working with interest groups in the Commission the next week and which is very emotional. Today there was a forestry conference in this house, and the subject is so emotional that it is difficult to decide which position to take. Perhaps it is necessary to create some discussion models to ensure that everyone does not run away from the room disappointed, but that everyone feels that they were important in this process. The subject of the quality of the explanatory notes was made clear by the Minister. I've given up reading them because I don't understand them. It is the easiest thing for me to take aside the law in force and compare the texts. Then I understand what changes are being made. There are so many problems that I, as a person who has been a nationalist for two and a half years, wonders what we have been doing here since 1992. It is as if we are still in the period of discovery, how we should act in lawmaking and be active there. It makes you a little thoughtful and sad. In my opinion, everything begins with political will, political culture, whether and how we can cooperate, and the role of the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu must lose its relationship with the government and be the one who initiates and holds discussions and is a courageous and sympathetic partner to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U145	There are no more requests to speak, but the Minister will take his opportunity to speak. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U146	Honourable representatives of the people! I would like to thank you for the words of recognition that have been said on some of the issues, and I would like to say that the criticism that has been voiced here by the representatives of the coalition or opposition, we will certainly analyse thoroughly. I was very pleased about this and I acknowledge that the opposition representatives understood my thinking. I tried to give an honest picture of what the situation is now, not to embellish it by any political motive. I'm glad it was correctly understood. This is the starting point where Parliament's identity should be formed, regardless of who is in the opposition or coalition; this is the starting point for us to succeed in bringing about a major and broader change. One thing is good canons of lawmaking, but certainly they should not become things themselves; they must not, under any circumstances, be opposed to the willingness to change in society. A good example was that the package of tax changes did not have a plan to develop, but in fact involvement took place, it was among politicians, it was in dialogue with stakeholders and it was simply in Parliament, and it did not happen. This was the reason why a number of tax changes were omitted: at the inclusion stage, it became apparent that they were not the most rational choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-25_U147	I will close this item on the agenda. As we agreed at the beginning, the Riigikogu will not take a decision on this point. We'll decide and vote again tomorrow at 10:00. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 15.54 p.m.
