ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are 46 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, and Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs are in briefings. I will give the debate on each issue an opportunity to put forward a more specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U2	The first questioner is Andres Ammas and the question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U3	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! During the preparation of the state reform, your government has been quite eloquent on the issue of the abolition of rural governments, the government has seen this as an important step and said a great deal about it. In my opinion, you have spoken quite less about the county centres, the so-called administrative departments, which are being set up in the Department of Regional Administration of the Ministry of Finance. There's been relatively little talk about them, and I think they've come undercover. It will take 2.5 million out of next year's state budget. Your colleague, Minister Aab, told us a little about this in a briefing, but I would like you to clarify once again what their role is, what their tasks are, and why there are these people, or planners, and municipal advisors. What status are these heads of administrative services in the Ministry hierarchy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you very much. It is true, I think that if we look at the development of rural governments over the last 26 years, we will see that we have reached a phase where certain changes need to be made. If we look at the functions that the rural governments had 10 or 15 years ago, let alone those that they had maybe 20 years ago, we can see that the functions of the rural governments have changed in many ways. In answer to your question, really, as of 1 January 2018, the county governments will cease their activities and their tasks will be shared between the public authorities and local authorities. Indeed, the Ministry of Finance also receives some tasks. This is why this office will be set up, and from the new year the Ministry of Finance will be composed of a regional administration department that will take over certain tasks of the rural governments. In each county, services are set up and, depending on the county, there will be three to six officials, people, employees. A total of 67 people are expected to start working in the section on 1 January 2018. I would like to point out that, for example, on 1 January 2017, the county authorities had a total of 477 employees. Now it's going to be 67 employees. I also asked the Minister for Public Administration today, preparing to answer this question in Question Time when he thinks these competitions will be over. His hope at the moment is that these competitions will be over this year. We are running out of time, but we will continue this debate. There are certainly also arrangements for the main tasks of the department to be set up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U5	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U6	Honorable Prime Minister! I'll take it from here where you finished. Competitions. The former county elders were representatives of the state in the county, but it is no secret to us in this hall that they were also important party politicians and were appointed according to political affiliation. How is it ensured that these heads of service are independent government officials and that the services do not become "soft landing" for the current rural elders, who are undoubtedly competent in their respective matters? How are you going to arrange all this? Out of curiosity, I wonder if the remuneration of these heads of service is the same as that of the farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U7	Thank you. First of all, about pay: as far as I am concerned, there is no higher pay. I think this step is even a little lower. What I'm saying is that we have to take into account is that the head of service is definitely not going to be a new head of the country and is not in the status of a governor of the country, he still has another function. You had a problem, or you described the danger of them being party politicians or party members. You wanted to know how to prevent it. I think the state apparatus in Estonia is strong enough in this sense. In any case, I believe that if competitions are held, the best women or men will be chosen. It is certainly not going to be in the competition terms that if someone has a ticket from the Free Party or any other party in their pocket, for example, they cannot apply. These people are certainly not party politicians; they are certainly not party positions. This competition must be used to select the best specialists. Now, from what you said about some of the current governors. As we know, very many of the county elders themselves have made a statement, especially when they have gone to work for the council, the municipality or the city government after the local elections, and have resigned. Today, in many places, the secretary of the country plays this role, but there are also rural elders. Could they run there? I don't know. I don't know who's in the competition. Basically, they could, of course, run for office. Do they have knowledge? I'm sure it is. Whoever is elected is decided very clearly by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Public Administration, that is their area. As I said, there is certainly no condition for a party ticket or party membership in these competitions. It still has to be based on what is the competence of one or another woman or man in this field, and, of course, on what his motivation is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U9	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! That's my question. When can we get the first proper and competent overview of the success and failure of the administrative reform here, such as the financial savings it entails, the efficiency improvements, the smooth transition of tasks and, in the view of the government, the need to reduce the public sector in the light of the decline in the working age population? The previous government thought it was at least rhetorical. We haven't heard that from you very much. But is that a purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U10	Thank you. If you need stamp sentences, I just answered Mr Ammas' question and said that if on 1 January 2017 there were 477, there would be 67 of them working on 1 January 2018. This mathematics should show that 410 people are now less. That was point one. Point two, how to get this overview. I think this is a very important observation that you said that you need to know what the pluses and the minuses have been. I do not think that we should assess this municipal reform on the basis of this criterion, first of all, how much financial savings have been. This should certainly be one aspect of the assessment, but I think it is much more important what services these 79 increased municipalities (64 municipalities and 15 cities) are now able to offer the residents whether the quality of services and the operational nature of their provision have improved, whether the capacity of the municipalities, including, for example, their investment capacity, whether the knowledge of the people of the municipalities and their ability to contribute to one, another or third area and whether their professionalism has increased. When we look at the merged municipalities that joined before the administrative reform, we see that very many of them highlight three main aspects. One is that the provision of services in all merged or merged municipalities has risen to a higher level than it was in these municipalities before accession or accession. Secondly, they say that investment capacity has emerged very clearly, it is possible to repair a particular object, it is a kindergarten, a school or some part of the infrastructure. Thirdly, they have said that the professionalism of municipal or municipal employees has indeed improved considerably. I think it is worthwhile doing these analyses here with the Riigikogu since the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U11	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U12	Next, Uno asks Kaskpeit, and the question is for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Is it planned to raise the new year's salary at the front line of the Police and Border Guard Board, the border guards working in the special service, who currently have 3. grade? The current salary is around 1000 euros, which is below the average wage in Estonia. As far as I know, the government is planning to allocate EUR 3.9 million to the Police and Border Guard Board. The Police and Border Guard Board has about 150 vacant posts. Why are there so many unfilled posts? Is it not because it is no longer popular among young people to be a police officer or a border guard in a green uniform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U14	Thank you, good questioner! You had a lot of questions. I'm trying to move forward from the back. First of all, it is certainly a myth that it is not popular among young people to study at the Police and Border Guard College of the Academy of Internal Defence. This year, there was a competition for more than three people, which shows the continuing popularity of the educational establishment. In this respect, you are entitled to have an increase of 4.5% in the salaries of special staff responsible for internal security in the state budget next year, which means EUR 3974000 for the Police and Border Guard Board. The entire Police and Border Guard Board has a budget increase of EUR 4480000. Half a million is the cost of human resources for officials, civil servants. When it comes to where the Police and Border Guard Board has planned to place this money, most of this amount goes to raise grade 3, 4 and 5. This means that the level 3, 4 and 5 salaries of police and border guards receive an increase of 10% (9-10%, depending on whether they have a grade 3, 4 or 5), which is more or less EUR 100. It's in this raise, you can say, that the Police and Border Guard Board's 1800 front-line employees will be paid. There are certainly certain regional differences, because, as you know, regional fees are paid in the eastern and northern regions. The regional fee for border guards disappears in Tartu from 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U15	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U16	Thank you. As you said, it is true that the decision of the Police and Border Guard Board will only maintain the regional fee for special servants working in the Prefecture of the North and in Ida-Viru County. Border guards working at the southern precinct, or southeast border, will lose this fee, and their income will not increase as a result. Personally, such a decision does not make any sense to me. What's the difference between a border guard working in the cordon in Ida-Virumaa and a southeast border? They both have to work about 100 kilometers away. On the basis of the particular nature of the service, there is no reason why the regional fee will be paid in the future in the two prefectures, but it will be abolished in one prefecture. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U17	Thank you. Let's clarify the terms. Indeed, in the Southern Prefecture, the abolition of regional charges is exactly what border guards are, so you are entitled to, because police officers who work there and carry out law enforcement activities have not even had a regional fee. There's a situation where the same 3. The difference between a police officer's salary and that of a border guard is, unfortunately, about 10% for the level of grade, EUR 80-100. There will be an equalisation of the wage levels of these two services, as the structure of the police and border guards also provides. For example, during the last exercise, which took place a few days ago in Võru County, the people of the Võru police responded to the border closure during the exercise. Perhaps these people perform similar tasks under similar circumstances. When we are talking about the east and the north, there is a need for a regional fee because it has been the most difficult to find people there so far. We talked about having a competition for more than three people in college, but these people don't really want to go to work in the Eastern region, for example, they start looking for jobs in either West or South Estonia, or in Harjumaa, for example. As a result, the eastern region has the highest frame deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U18	Uno Kaskpeit, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. This approach to officials working under the same conditions, most of whom live far from their job, or in another county, is completely incomprehensible. The police and the border guard still can't be compared. The police live pretty close to the job, but the border guards all work a hundred kilometers away or farther away, also in the south. It is the most facetless of the fact that colleagues have an increase in wages or income of 100 euros, but in the Southern Prefecture, the Director-General feels that because of the smart move, the income of the working people will not increase. I'd still like to hear a normal excuse for this situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U20	Thank you. I continue to say that this wage injection of nearly 4 million will provide an opportunity to raise the salary of 1800 people by 100 euros and to equalise the salary paid for these works. I'm sure there's a desire to speed up the raise. Negotiation of the country's budgetary strategy is approaching; we will certainly look there at the overall wage increase in the country and how special servants could fit into this schedule in such a way that there would be no setbacks in pay. I would also stress that last time police and border guards had such an increase in wages in 2015. I called it $4 million, you said it was 150 platoons. Really, the Police and Border Guard Board is constantly updating its work and activities. When we talk about 3.9 million short-term responders scheduled to be recruited next year (about 150 people) and 2 million new district constables, I think 2018 will be one of the most advanced years of development for the Police and Border Guard Board in the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U22	The next question is asked by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Under the leadership of the Centre Party, a situation has arisen where there are essentially two foreign political lines in Estonia. There is one line represented and run by our diplomats, and there is another line, such that the more and less leading figures of the Centre Party will present the views of the Putin regime in a number of channels. The last example of this second route was very drastic: the representatives of the Prime Minister's Party called Ukraine a freak in a broadcast of taxpayers' money, which was suffering from Russia's aggression and warring. I think it was not only in total contradiction with the Estonian foreign policy line, but it was also exceptionally offensive. I am now offering you a platform and an opportunity to apologize for the statement of this Prime Minister's party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U24	Thank you. I am pleased about one thing, that we have always managed to keep defence and foreign policy outside party boundaries in Estonia. These positions have been very coherent and clear. Let's take the same Eastern Partnership. Ukraine is also one of the Eastern Partnership countries. The Eastern Partnership started in the European Union in 2009, but for Estonia, these countries were important even before that. We have offered them cooperation and real joint action. If you ask about the party, I will say that the Centre Party has no more than one line in foreign policy and it is completely in line with the Estonian national foreign and defence policy line. It is true that the current government has wanted to take a few more steps on certain issues, both in foreign policy and in defence policy, by strengthening the External Action Service and adding EUR 60 million for defence investments over three years. This approach, which you described in your question or what was on this show, naturally does no honour to anyone. I said in my speech to the European Parliament in Strasbourg on 4 July: 'I believe that it is not impossible that one day this Parliament will have the same role as the President of Ukraine today. It is clear that the European Union must take more responsibility for security both in Europe and around it. ' It's a very clear one and one line.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U25	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U26	Good Prime Minister! You did not answer my question and did not take the opportunity to apologise to the Ukrainian state and Ukrainians. I will be honest with you that you are talking about a line that the Centre Party has in foreign policy, but if this is the line that has come with the agreement between your party and the United Russia, then this line is still quite frightening. These statements, which many of your party's characters have promised themselves, are proof that this line is going to be very far. I ask once again: do you apologise for the fact that the representative of the Prime Minister's party called Ukraine, which has been a very important country to Estonia and whom we have supported on a very large scale, a freak state, in a television channel distributed for taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U27	Thank you, good questioner! I haven't seen this show. I apologize for anyone who has called Ukraine a freak state because it is wrong, and I believe that as a member of your Riigikogu you also apologize. I really don't know who specifically said that sentence on this show. But, of course, it doesn't honor us, it's a bad tone, and for that I apologize! Secondly, I think that there should be no ridicule or irony on such matters at all. You rightly said in your question that Ukraine has been an important partner for Estonia. He's still an important partner. The aspirations of Ukraine and the other Eastern Partnership countries, I think, received a very concrete substantive solution at the last Eastern Partnership Summit, which took place a few weeks ago, where 20 concrete steps were agreed by 2020 on how 34 countries (six Eastern Partners and the European Union) should proceed. Whether they are better associations, support for small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of borrowing in these six countries, or a more comprehensive and comprehensive educational programme, these are the aspirations for which Estonia will certainly stand, just as Estonia stands steadfastly for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. These are the principles that, I think, Estonia has respected and will continue to adhere to very strongly. You would like to raise this issue of conflict again, which the Reform Party has done very successfully three times, I would say, in the Riigikogu elections, once again keeling society, that who are Russian and who are Estonian people. I am sorry, but I assure you that the Estonian Government is very clear in foreign policy and defence policy that it has maintained for decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! It seems to me that the Centre Party has two faces and one, the more polite common face you do here for us, but the members of the Centre Party have said exactly the things the questioner pointed out about Ukraine. Yesterday, I was amazed at how the mayor of Tallinn justified the purchase from the Russian propaganda channels of the city for money, of air time for public resources. We have a former deputy mayor, a big voice magnet, hiding audits. My question is: how long will this political culture take? Ukraine certainly has its problems, but how long will it take the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U30	Thank you. I was again at the climate summit in Paris yesterday, with representatives from different countries and continents around the world. I consider it very important that the European Union has taken the direction that it wants to be the premier in this world. Of course, thanks to the French President, who held the last summit on this subject yesterday and the day before yesterday, involving both the private sector and the public sector. If you have any questions about Tallinn's topics, I am currently in debt with the exact address of the city council, but I can tell you that it is located in the Old Town on Aia Street. Yeah, on Garden Street. The city hall is in the Liberty Square. You can always turn there. I really didn't look yesterday at the mayor of Tallinn, I don't know, interviews or sayings. I was in Paris, and I was in charge of the duties that come from my position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U32	Now Jüri Adams asks and answers Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U33	Mr. Minister of the Interior! In a little more than a year, we will have the next regular Riigikogu elections. Administrative reform has taken place since the previous elections, most municipalities now have new borders and perhaps more than half of the counties have new borders. In your area of administration, there is a population register in which the existence and content of the entry is, in fact, the basis on which Estonian citizens will receive voting rights in elections. In Riigikogu elections, I recall, both Estonian citizens and citizens of European Union countries who live permanently in Estonia are entitled to vote. Would it be technically possible to find out the number of people with the right to vote in order to reflect on the new electoral circles?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U34	Thank you very much for your question. As regards the launch of the administrative reform, I have also brought this to the attention of officials at the Ministry of the Interior and reminded them that, while there is a reform of the population register, i.e. bringing it to the new platform, a technical change, all these things need to be reviewed in a very responsible manner. It is up to people to participate quickly, easily and operationally in the elections for the year after that. Yes, on 23 October the Ministry of the Interior gave the state electoral service an overview of the number of residents and persons entitled to vote in the new local government units. You're a thousand times right, this card has really changed quite a bit. I am just talking about the ratio between electoral circles and counties. Let me just say, for example, that the population increased most in the counties of Tartu, Pärnu and Võru by 3700, 3600 and 2,900 people respectively, and the population decreased most in the counties of West (3600 people), Ida-Viru (3500 people) and Põlva (2400 people). When we look at the electoral circles, we really see that their size has changed. I think that in Parliament, too, possible new electoral districts could be discussed. I will be happy to give you a list of all new municipalities and the number of residents and also voters in these municipalities after Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U35	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U36	Thank you. Mr. Minister! If there really is a possible number of Riigikogu voters, I am very grateful for that. It's been searched for a long time, that list would be good. My point is in the form of a certain suspicion. In fact, when we met the people of the electoral service and the electoral committee of the Republic and listened to what they said, two figures remained. There are about 20,000 people in Estonia who are unable to participate in the Riigikogu elections at all because they do not have an entry in the population register, they do not exist in the sense of the population register, and there are probably more than 80,000 people who, according to the population register, live permanently abroad and whether all or a significant number of them have lost their right to vote. Do you have any comment on this suspicion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U37	Yeah, there's definitely a comment. I also say that in the case of any problem, if you feel that some data is wrong, please turn around and we will go over them again. Right now, I'm sending you the data that the machine has released. When it comes to figures, it was only recently that the Population Register Act was passed here, whose explanatory memorandum draws attention to people who are not covered by any data in the Population Register. There is a preliminary analysis that one part of these can have left life outside Estonia if we are talking about this exactly 20,000. We don't have any information on this. We need to clean it up. The new Population Register Act creates these obligations and the new Population Register also has a new IT solution. This year, we introduced new servers and a new platform in parallel with administrative reform, all of which will certainly simplify work. As far as the 85,000 people you mentioned are concerned, I have seen a slightly different figure of 32000. I think we're going to specify these numbers in cooperation and we're going to let you know exactly what this number is. Since this was not mentioned in the question, I will answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U38	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will then ask specifically, not about the thousands of people who may have such vague status. But let us imagine that there are elections, there will be a person and prove that he is a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, but he does not have him in the register, he does not have a 'election circle' in which to choose, even though he has the constitutional right to choose. How will this problem be solved? Question two. Is the extent of emigration such that Estonia could consider the "external Estonian constituency" in elections to the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U40	Thank you. My colleague Adams has also just asked me a question about their potential 85,000 people, about the community outside Estonia. It can really be considered, but it requires the identification of more than 80,000 people, it needs to be made clear who and what backgrounds they may be. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, if a person does not have any connection with the population register with the accuracy of a local authority, it may be a problem, which is why all possible issues need to be resolved by means of electoral cards before the elections. So, yes, there is a deficit here, but I dare say to you that I do not know that this problem would have been massive. In fact, the people who are coming to the election have made these things clear first. But also theoretical problems must certainly be resolved, because we cannot leave the possibility that even one person cannot exercise his or her constitutional right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U42	Martin Helme's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U43	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! To conclude on the previous subject, if the Minister of the Interior sends any information, maybe he will send them to all the political groups of the Riigikogu. However, I appeal to the Prime Minister with concern that another rotten egg has been laid out during the Estonian Presidency. Although the French took the lead, I still hold the Estonian Government responsible for this. We are, of course, talking about the establishment of a common European finance minister and a European monetary fund. This will make it clear to us once and for all that the money we have given to Greece by the ESM will be transferred to the currency fund, and we will probably pay something more there and will never get that money back. This will further remove the sovereignty of the Member States, further demolish the nation states, and eliminate our last power over our own money and taxes. The French Minister for Finance has said that, in any case, it is accompanied by a single European income tax. Where did the Estonian Government take the mandate to do so, or on the basis of what mandate did it allow such a thing to happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U44	Thank you. If you will allow me, I will devote five seconds to answering the previous question. I told Mr. Herkel that the council was on Garden Street, but it's on the corner of Garden and Vana-Viru, Vana-Viru 12 is the address. Now I come to what you asked for. Well, in fear, I certainly can't compete with you. Everything you have just mentioned is not true, but nevertheless, you can say it with such conviction that you can start, or even believe, that it is. It's not like that, it's not like that! However, if we come to this problem or question, say, the foundation or root of it, the European Commission has really proposed to consider the possibility of creating some new institutions in the European Economic and Monetary Union, for example, in order to deepen the Union's cooperation and strengthen the monitoring mechanisms and to reduce the so-called democratic deficit, so that the institutions also have closer links with the citizens of the European Union. To this end, it has been a suggestion to consider this too, but you spoke in a specific way, and I stress the word 'consider' to create a position of European Economic and Financial Minister, which could be matched by the position of the Commissioner for Economic Affairs and the head of the Eurogroup. At the moment, 28 Member States really do have quite different, to say the least, visions and there is just one idea put forward. Estonia's position is very clear from the fact that Estonia does not see the meaning of this debate at the moment. If this is to be started, we will, of course, say our position. But would Estonia go along with the idea of having a European Minister for Finance? As I said, we are ready to take part in the debates here, but our current assessment is that the euro area does not need such a position as a finance minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U45	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U46	Thank you. I must honestly admit that I do not understand how you can talk about reducing the democratic deficit by such a method that the European Commission is going to impose a common tax on the Member States. How will it reduce the democratic deficit if we in the Riigikogu can no longer set taxes, but they are agreed somewhere in Brussels? But I've also been surprised at this, and I've been a member of the Riigikogu for perhaps less time than you've been here, but I've been doing politics a little longer, and I've seen that you don't, like, realize how these developments in the European Union are going. First of all, they come up with a plan that everyone is saying is a plan and we are just discussing it, after a while it will become almost an informal work plan, then it will take some time, and that is the official position, which is said to have been accepted by everyone for a long time. Once again, I ask where is the mandate on which it is based. The referendum on the Constitution said that being a member of the European Union must not depart from the fundamental principles of the Constitution. Where does the mandate come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U47	I'm gonna have to start by congratulating you again. You're powerful, turning around everything I said. I repeat. I didn't say there was a democratic deficit. I have quoted and communicated to you that the European Commission, which is not the government of the Estonian state, has really proposed to consider the possibility of creating some new institutions in the European Economic and Monetary Union in order to deepen the Union's cooperation, strengthen the monitoring mechanism and reduce the so-called democratic deficit. I also told you in my reply that Estonia is currently not supporting the creation of the office of Minister of Finance. We don't think there's a need. This position was also adopted by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 7 December, unanimously approving the Estonian starting points for the future of the European Economic and Monetary Union, presented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, right here with you, these positions were discussed on 11 December, although, according to my information, the subject of the Minister of Finance did not arise at ELAK. There is a representative of your party in the committee, and I think Mr Madison is the vice-chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee; he is in a very important position there. But you see, that topic didn't come up there. You're afraid there'll be some common taxes or things. It's not coming, it's not coming. That's why you don't have to be scared or scared. However, I say that solidarity, consensus and sense of team are, of course, important in the European Union. This is the basis for the functioning of the European Union, and it is only through debates that we find common ground on various issues. The kind of fire we fire, I haven't really noticed in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U48	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U49	Mr. President! Prime Minister! Estonia is already a country functioning under conditions of deep sovereignty. Yesterday, if I am not mistaken, or was it the day before yesterday, yes, on Monday, the French Finance Minister explicitly said that in 2018 a common corporate income tax must be introduced in Europe in order to reach an agreement. I'm an old fighter, and I've seen a lot of people beat their chests before a fight, and they say we're gonna give it to them, but when they do, the givers aren't really seen anywhere. I have experienced that things are exactly the same in the Estonian country: they say we will, but then, when they do, we will do as the French say. If we put aside Martin Schulz's claim that a European federation must be formed in 2025, then the question is, where do you take the mandate that agreements on these matters...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U50	That was the question, because the time has long passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U51	... to achieve and move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U52	Thank you. You have very strong arguments. I put only one thing aside here, that is the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. § 1 of Chapter I of the Constitution: 'Estonia is an independent and independent democratic republic in which the highest state power is exercised by the people. " That's what we're going to do, we're going to do in the European Union, we're going to do it in Estonia, and we're going to do it in Estonia's foreign policy. That's all that matters. That's what I'm gonna put next to it. Surely the various developments that you have also pointed out, or the statements of politicians about how the European Union should change, are not they? Europe is a democracy. I think it is very reasonable that different parties and politicians can say things. Just as I heard one thing from you, completely surprised, when I made a presentation of the European Union's policy and Presidency in this honourable Riigikogu speech chair. I was talking about what was happening in the Cultural Coil on the morning of 29 September, the leaders of Europe came, we had a digital summit there, but someone was a little noisy across the street and showed some posters. You said it was yours. I didn't know that exactly. But this is also part of democracy. There's no need to be afraid. In any case, we will follow the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the mandate given to us by the highest authority in Estonia. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Te ei vastanud!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U54	The next question is asked by Urmas Kruuse and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Very dear Prime Minister! In recent days, there has been a great deal of talk in the press about agricultural subsidies, precisely pig subsidies. Some people have said that it is certainly more colorful than the story of Seaküla Samson. How is it possible that you said in Vikerradio that you, as the chief negotiator, forgot Kadri Samson, who was involved in the negotiations on the agricultural chapter? You realize no one's gonna believe what you came up with back then. What was the incentive? Why did you want to hide the fact that Kadri Samson was involved in the negotiations on the agricultural chapter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U56	Thank you. I never wanted to hide it. We had very different thematic areas and blocks in the negotiations, including agriculture and rural areas. We've involved experts in every block. On rain radio, I was asked this question by sending 'The Studio is Prime Minister'. I said that Siret Kotka was most likely there (known as Siret Kotka-Repinski, now Siret Kotka-Repinski), there was definitely me, and there was probably Kadri Simson. Yeah, there was Kadri Simson. I am very pleased that these thoughts and ideas on agriculture were born. What happened in Estonia in 2014? There was an opportunity to pay top-up grants for EUR 70 million, but they were not paid. The dairy herd was reduced, the pig herd was reduced. The public sector therefore needed to take very concrete steps. I'm happy for that. You're nodding yourself right now, and you realize it was a difficult time. The current government coalition said jointly, consensually, it has been very important to our party that we want to restore top-up subsidies. I'm glad they're at their maximum this year. We want to pay the aid for breeding and we see that it can play a role in the fact that, for example, the number of pigs has started to increase again in 2017, the figures have improved. We said that crisis support must pay the maximum, and we also managed to solve it. I'd say we still have to move on from here. Let's look at pollinators, look at beekeepers' and beekeepers' support, this is the subject that needs to be dealt with in the next state budget negotiations. So there is no need to knock down eyes at all here, on the contrary, these difficult issues must be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U57	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U58	Thank you. Your knowledge is great, but you should pay out half the money that the previous government could pay out to farmers first. But how can it be denied that Kadri Simson used inside information for the benefit of his partner Tee Soorm-related companies? This took place only two days after the coalition's decision to support the rearing of pigs by means of breeding aid, which is run by a central party in the ministry. With the support of this decision, both companies will benefit from hundreds of thousands of euros. How can you justify to the public that they did not use inside information when they and people close to the Centre Party benefited so much from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U59	Thank you. In short, you might ask what kind of witch hunt is going on here for Kadri Samson. I'm sure it's a good minister. It is a minister who has been able to make progress in its area of economy and infrastructure, to increase investment and, for example, to provide for gravel roads, better quality transit routes through local authorities. But the answer to your question is that it's very simple. Take out the proposals of rural entrepreneurs for the government union that will be set up. I'm talking November 13th, 2016. I'll read them to you. On 13 November last year, the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation made joint proposals for the government union to be set up for the development of agriculture, food production and rural development. These proposals were as follows: As I have always said, the desire of this coalition, or the Social Democrats, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party, has really been to listen to sectoral input. We don't think it's just at the cabinet desk that's the only real knowledge. It's not like that. We need to look more broadly and no ideas can be rejected immediately. These proposals were as follows: First proposal: guaranteeing the full payment of transitional payments to Estonian farmers. This year, 19.9 million for this is also guaranteed by the country's budgetary strategy. The second proposal: to ensure that emergency adjustment support in the dairy and pig sector is paid as quickly as possible to alleviate the crisis, with a maximum amount of EUR 480000 missing for crisis aid. EUR 480000 was added to the budget for this year for crisis assistance. Thirdly, in the coming years, great attention should be paid to restoring and maintaining the potential of pig and cattle farming affected by the crisis through support for breeding. This amount is available in the budget of 2 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U60	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U61	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I think this is not a hunt for Kadri Samson, but a debate on the central party culture of government. This is a much more serious issue, which is also reflected in government action on state aid issues, for example. I would like to mention, for example, the area of Urve Palo's administration and how he feels about state aid, and, unfortunately, your case as well. Europe has already quietly begun to signal that support measures have been put in place in the light of mitigating the consequences of the swine plague, which are not in line with European Union regulations. I am asking directly: has State aid authorisation been requested and does the European Commission have a common understanding and understanding of these support measures?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U62	Thank you. There were many aspects to your question, but of course a member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask such a question. What can I say better? First of all, I come back to the agricultural sector. Is the subject that ministers and politicians decide only on the basis of their knowledge or are they looking at the wider picture? As I replied to your good fellow Mr Kruus, a letter from the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation came to the Government Union on 13 November. I do not question their professionalism, knowledge or skills. These three concerns had to be resolved. Indeed, in 2014, you see, Brussels promised to pay top-up grants, but Estonia did not pay. Brussels said that top-up grants could be paid, Estonia said that we would pay zero euros. 70 million were lost to farmers. Today, this problem has been solved, and thanks to this coalition, at least this thing is moving a little further. You asked for the Urve Palo thing. I have said here in the Riigikogu Hall and in the public space and in the media that in any case I support Urve Palo. It's been a question of that last mile. It is very important that the fast internet also reach the farm behind the forest tree. It's very important. If the Minister sees that it is also possible to involve telecom companies, to involve the private sector, so as to move forward even faster and more widely, taking into account Estonia's dispersal, I think this is a good solution, in any case. State aid is a serious issue; there is no risk here. I am absolutely convinced that the ministries and authorities that make such payments have seriously considered the state aid aspect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U63	Thank you. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U64	Andres Herkel continues to ask Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I will essentially continue with the same question, the question being the same. If you could turn back time, what advice would you give Kadri Samson in this situation, could he reduce himself from the negotiation of the coalition talks on the agricultural block rather than raising this issue of sow support in such a form, or make sure that Mr Soorm does not receive internal information and can not make the crablinal crab eligible for support from his own company, which it was not originally? After all, the time series of the Postman shows very clearly that the suspicion of using inside information is more than likely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U66	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. You've been Kadri Simson's co-worker for years in this very hall in the honorable Riigikogu. The question is what you believe with your conscience and soul. Do you really believe that this is a person who tries to use, I don't know, the twists to make such transactions, or is it a person who has honestly pursued politics and stood up for his programming positions? I believe 100% that Kadri Simson has just done that last one. You asked me if I could turn back time, what advice would I give him? I would say to him that, good Kadri, please stand up for five important reforms in the coalition negotiations: tax-free minimum reform, so that the low- and middle-paid people in Estonia earn more, for the medical reform, for the reduction of treatment queues, certainly for the reform of the state and local governments, and certainly also for pension reform, so that it is more sustainable, flexible, solidarity-based, and I would tell him that I would also ask you to stand up for agricultural reform. Perhaps, on the basis of today's knowledge, I would add more to the question of pollinators, which I have pointed out, and which is also very important in economic terms. I think we need to come back to this so that we can also support bee hives. I certainly support Kadri on all the issues for which she stood from the beginning of last November to the middle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U67	Andres Herkel, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U68	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would point out that not all pig farmers received this support. The question is why only members of the breeding cooperative could benefit from this measure. How did it happen, though, that one company was suddenly quickly qualified for support, while there were so many others with whom it did not happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U69	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that these subsidies were definitely paid out in the Ministry of Rural Affairs sector on the basis of the requirements that were in force and in force. I am absolutely convinced that, as a result of these negotiations, no party, including Kadri Simson, used this information for their own personal interest. After all, the prosecutor's office has also made it very clear that Kadri Simson is not involved in this suspicion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U70	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U71	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! You're a man of quick decisions and actions. The Saaremaa man Mihkel Undrest joined the Central Party in the spring and the next year's state budget has 400000 Mõntu harbour. If I bring you a request to join the Central Party tomorrow, how soon will you complete the Haapsalu railway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U72	Thank you. First of all, I've seen the pressure of the Free Party on the last, I'd say, four, five months. It started with Mr. Herkel. We're still waiting for his statement, and I'm not going to rule out it's coming at any time. Mr Ammas, I have always told you that I appreciate you very much, I appreciate your actions at your various stages of life, but I certainly appreciate you also for the last decision you made in this Chamber in the last minutes of August 20, 1991. If it is your wish to come to the Centre Party, I would like first to advise you to consult your loved ones and read the programmes of all Estonian political parties. If you see that our party stands best for your principles and outlook, you are welcome. Now from the Haapsalu railroad. I am in this mind, and the current coalition is in this mind, that a real step in either 6.4 or 6.6 kilometres (you know better) has already been taken in terms of the budget in order for the railroad to extend to Turbon. If you ask for my position, which of course does not relate to whether or not you and Herkel are coming to the Centre Party, then I say that a rail link with Läänemaa is really needed. Personally, I've said I wouldn't call it the Haapsalu railroad, but I'd go all the way to Rohuküla with it. Let's not forget Hiiumaa, which is also an important county in terms of this connection. If you agree to join forces here, coming to the Centre Party or not going to the Centre Party, I do not believe that this will be the limit, cooperation with you will be effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U73	I will conclude on this issue. Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Interior Minister Andrus Anvelt and Foreign Minister Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U74	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Wednesday session on the 11th working week. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U75	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight members of the Free Party will report an inquiry to Minister of the Environment Siim Kiisler. It is called 'Relaxation of the conservation regime of conservation areas'. In this Chamber, you have certainly all noticed that there has been an extraordinary pressure on the Estonian forest recently. One part of this pressure is that clear cutting permits have been introduced quietly, sneaking has also been introduced in restricted zones and the rules of protected areas have been quietly changed, so there is a lot of clear cutting in nature conservation areas, including Lahemaa National Park, for example. We want to find out where such a decision has been made and what its purpose is. There are other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U76	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U77	Mr. Chairman! Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of eight members of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. The topic of inquiry is related to possible changes in the assessment of the state examination of Estonian language. This question of understanding has nothing to do with functional reading skills and does not want to underestimate its importance. This skill is very important. In our opinion, however, functional reading skills do not exclude the ability to spell the Estonian language. Our questions are five. They are also linked to how a committee of SA Innove can say what the basis for the assessment of the state examination is and who is shaping Estonian language policy. We are also interested in the link between this proposal and the 'Estonian Language Strategy 2018
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U78	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U79	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, We're on the same path as the previous speaker. We, too, are very concerned about the trends that have developed in Estonia with the current government's attitude towards the Estonian language. Our language is one of the important cornerstones of our national and national identity, but we see its positions being systematically undermined. Allowing weapons examination in Russian, bringing Russian to court administration, etc. These examples have not only upset the members of our party and our thinkers in the last year, but have irritated society in general. Now we see how the deterioration of the position of the Estonian language, the persistent undermining of its position reach secondary schools after higher education and science, it reaches schools at all. This is unacceptable. This cannot be accepted and society must be mobilised against this attitude. As a result, our group members have submitted an inquiry, which contains four questions, all of which concern the Estonian language examination and the position of the Estonian language in our society at large. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U80	After a more precise review, I will say so much more that the inquiry was submitted to the Minister for Education and Research. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U81	Thank you. On behalf of all seven members of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I present an inquiry to Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. This question is about pigs and hogs. Namely, on 29 November, the Central Criminal Police apprehended the former leaders of HKScan, Teet Soorm and Mati Tuvi. There's a civil dispute between HKScan and the inmates. A civil dispute is a form of dispute where the criminal police usually do not intervene, but this time intervened. HKScan is represented in this dispute by Soraainen's law firm. This is one of those offices that is very close to the Office of the Defence Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, among other things. If there is any doubt that there is a law firm operating in Estonia, through which the Central Criminal Police, the Defence Police Department or the Prosecutor's Office can be used to shut down and label their opponent, this is a constitutional crisis and an extremely serious problem. We therefore have three questions for the Minister of Justice about this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U82	I have accepted four inquiries. If they all meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, I will send them to the ministers. Incoming check, please! 94 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U83	Honourable Riigikogu! Last day we were interrupted by the first reading of the draft law amending the Aviation Act and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please return Jaanus Marrand to the speaker's desk. The question was registered by Jaak Madison. Please, Jaak Madison! Where's Jaak Madison? Jaak Madison's not in the hall. No question. There's no further request.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U84	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U85	I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 532 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 29 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U86	First reading of the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 536. The initiator's waitress is Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U87	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The bill amends the law on liquid fuel and the related legislation on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and the law on taxation. The main objective is to increase fair competition in the fuel market and reduce tax fraud. As a positive side of the state budget, reducing fraud will certainly contribute to an increase in the sector's tax revenues. The proposed changes will enable the Tax and Customs Board to track fraud more effectively and more quickly in the future. The draft amends the guarantee for fuel sellers who sell only fuel for consumption. The purpose of the guarantee is to ensure the fulfilment of the VAT obligation that may arise in advance. Under current law, the seller's security is EUR 100000, which can be reduced under certain conditions. The draft provides for a limit under which fuel may normally be sold in the amount covered by the security. Such a limitation excludes the situation where the fuel seller can cause unlimited VAT losses to the State. I would point out that the amount of the guarantee is not a forecast turnover for two months, but 20% of it, i.e. the rate of VAT. It is important to note that fuel sellers are, however, left with the right to apply for a reduction in security if certain criteria are met. It is possible to apply for a reduction in the security for fuel sellers who have been operating for at least six months on the basis of a fuel sales licence at the time of the application without a tax debt. In order to prevent tax fraud, two real-time databases will be introduced in the future, reflecting all data on fuel sales and stocks. Firstly, a fuel handling database that allows the Tax and Customs Board to obtain information in real time on all fuel purchases and sales transactions. On the basis of this information, the Agency will be able to carry out rapid risk analyses, where appropriate, and to react operationally to risky transactions. Today's problem is that there may be between four and eight fuel sellers in one fuel chain, whose identification is often time- and resource-intensive. This will not contribute to the detection of possible fraud. The second new information system is the inventory of stock records, which allows for a real-time overview of the flow of fuel both in the individual warehouse and between warehouses, for example by comparing data with data on the income and expenditure of the warehouse. To sum it up. These are very necessary and positive changes, which have been thoroughly prepared and which will help to make our fuel market more transparent for all market participants. The draft has been agreed with a number of interest groups, the most important of which is the Estonian Oil Association. In addition, during 2016 and 2017 meetings were held with warehousekeepers and the operators of storage programmes they use, with companies authorised to sell fuel and with conformity assessment bodies, under the direction of the Tax and Customs Board. The law enters into force in several stages. The amendments to the fuel management database shall enter into force on 1 February and 1 August 2018. The provisions on the transition to the new system will enter into force on 1 May 2018. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U88	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U89	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. How does a 90% reduction in the guarantee depend on the decision-maker, or official, to reduce it? Does it depend on the person, or is it that, in any case, those who have worked properly within six months receive it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U90	Thank you. That's how I figured out that basically there's a set of rules, so if he meets those rules, he's pretty likely to get that 90% reduction. I'm sure the clerk's got a say in it too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U91	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U92	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, The decision to reduce the guarantee by 90% has been strongly criticised by small fuel sellers. You may have involved the oil union, but you probably didn't include the little ones. I ask how the same set of rules will be put in place to decide on this 90% reduction. Will it be established by means of an internal document or administrative act of the Tax and Customs Board? If so, would it be possible to examine this set of rules?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U93	Thank you. I have realised that there are still principles in place on the basis of which this guarantee is reduced, and it is certainly possible to examine these principles. In the Committee on Economic Affairs, when I presented this draft, officials also claimed that such principles exist on the basis of which it is based. If it is a proper taxpayer and there is no risk, it will normally receive a reduction in that guarantee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U94	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I read from several points in the explanatory memorandum that the risk has not been identified or that the risk is low, especially with regard to this key issue, the regulation of collateral. It is explained below that this concerns small market participants. I would like to hope that the conclusion is not that, when it comes to small market participants and they encounter difficulties, the risk is low. What are you still doing when many small businesses have to close their doors, even though they have not dealt with tax fraud?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U96	Thank you. The draft that is here before you is based on the principle that fair and transparent competition will certainly benefit all, including these small ones. It is certainly not in the interest of small businesses either if someone is selling cheaper fuel, because some taxes have not been paid by schemes. In cooperation with the oil union and smaller fuel sellers, this draft and, in fact, this package of guarantees, with a minimum guarantee of EUR 5000, which does not have to be a financial contribution, could also be a bank guarantee or a mortgage. So, in my opinion, this is a sensible draft, which is certainly not a reason for small-scale filling stations to have to shut down their activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U97	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law sets out the tax losses caused by unfair operators on the fuel market. That is EUR 50.60 million. Fighting this is in itself a very noble thing to do. However, indeed, most opposition to this draft has been expressed by the owners of small-scale filling stations. If we look at the minimum guarantee requirement applied to owners of light-duty filling stations (the minimum amount is EUR 5000) and we expect the Tax and Customs Board to have provided this information nicely on the light-duty filling stations, it turns out that their possible financial compensation, if everyone were "unfair," would only be 200,000. I do not understand how this measure actually combats this tax loss of 50 to 60 million. Perhaps I would argue that tax losses actually occur somewhere else, some excise-free oil coming from Poland, similar to diesel, mixed with diesel and then sold.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U99	Thank you. This last option has also been brought to the attention of the Tax and Customs Board. Well, it's a complex, isn't it? It's a part of it. Surely this is perhaps the main victory from this real-time database. These things work together. If they see an anomaly coming up somewhere, that's the way to react quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U100	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U101	Good manager! Good minister! I also want to talk about collateral. EUR 5000 is the lowest amount that can be used, but in fact the guarantee is calculated on the basis of turnover. 20% of the turnover for two months, excluding VAT, is a guarantee. I'm just asking why small-tankers and big chains are treated unequally. The upper limit has also been set, it is EUR 1 million. It is clear that the owners of gas stations pay a much lower percentage as collateral than the owners of small-scale filling stations. If the monthly turnover is at a million, the guarantee must already be 360000. If someone says that his guarantee is 10%, I would ask the IRS for a piece of paper with information on which undertakings have obtained such a right. If the gas station chains ask for it, at least three times on the 30th of the month, a letter is sent that it doesn't fit. The question is why companies are treated unequally.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U102	Thank you. Indeed, it may seem that there is unequal treatment, but in fact it is not a million maximum, but it is a minimum and it is for importers. They have long operated large multinationals. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board does not see the risk that Statoil or Neste, for example, would start ruining their reputation after a few million. If this risk arises, a higher security shall be provided. This possibility is provided for in this law. That's a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U103	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U104	Good manager! Good waitress! Six years ago, there was something similar to the Liquid Fuel Act. It was clearly established that large multinational groups had to pay up to 2% to 3% of their turnover as collateral and small local companies up to 30%. Of course, the market was cleansed of many small businesses. My question is how many percent now, this time large multinationals would have to pay for their turnover as collateral and how much small local companies would have to pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U105	Thank you. Since I do not know specifically about the turnover of all these large companies, I will not speculate on the percentages here either. But yes, these earlier tax changes have meant that in 2011, when the rules were tightened for the first time, the state received nearly 90 million more receipts in the budget next year, and when the next holes were closed a year or two later, it was an additional revenue of around 30 million. Well, he is, because it's an attractive business for such a quick turnover and maybe tax fraudsters, they'll come up with new schemes. This is where you keep up with your time. There's no point in denying it, but small stations are actually a bigger risk factor. Unfortunately, some have gone down the road that they have sold themselves to a tank player or another company that has taken advantage of this opportunity to commit fraud. After that, the tax administration will not be able to do much if the fuel has been sold out through four or eight companies in the meantime. This is the situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U106	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I am certainly concerned about small-scale filling stations, too, for one more reason. This is because they also play an important role in the service of rural businesses and especially in the operational service, especially during the harvesting period. When I look at this table, which shows the turnover of about 37 small companies, ranging from 1000 litres of fuel per month to 100000 litres, I notice that the table has a '5000 euros' back there. You're an entrepreneur. If a company with a turnover of EUR 10000 has to put EUR 5000 as collateral, and it is really small, perhaps a family business, do you really think that this will favour the continuation of the business?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U108	Thank you. I would say that if I am a small enterprise and the bill helps to eliminate those who cheat from the market where I operate, then indirectly I will get that money back and maybe I will win. There's equal competition, that's that plus side. Surely these are concerns that need to be taken into account. I understand that in the Committee on Economic Affairs, there were meetings with the owners of small-scale filling stations in the meantime to look at these issues and, if necessary, to come up with some mitigating proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U109	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U110	Respectable waitress! Honorable Minister! You have a lot of figures in the explanatory memorandum. It has been stated precisely that 131 fuel sellers had been registered in December 2016, and a few paragraphs above state that according to the Tax and Customs Board, there are almost 86 persons at risk in the fuel sector. In itself, it is difficult to understand. If it's ironic, are there 84 or 85? How much is close to 86? But this sentence suggests that the Tax and Customs Board knows who these people are at risk. Why, then, do not deal with them individually and, as small businesses say, use the tactics of burned land, and will be attacked at the same time when the Tax and Customs Board has such accurate data?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U111	Thank you. This data has emerged from a risk analysis. The problem right now is that you can't put a hand on anyone in advance. The proposed scheme is designed to solve this problem. This 'almost' may have been put there because close to 86... I'm sorry, Jurgen! It's not meant to highlight you. [[Laughing.]] It's not absolute, it's a preliminary assessment of where they see the risk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U112	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U113	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. To clarify the question of Urmas Kruus, the Tax and Customs Board has indeed provided us with information that there are 14 small filling stations in Estonia with a monthly sales turnover of 28000 litres or less. If we take an average size of 20,000 litres per month, then these 14 gas stations have a minimum guarantee requirement of 5,000, that is, 25% of the sales turnover is actually a guarantee. But isn't that unfair to these little filling stations? Why do you not apply this general formula and principle here: 20% of the fuel sold out in two months? There is, in fact, a guarantee requirement for a full quarter of the turnover. And how much do you expect to reduce fuel fraud with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U114	Thank you. This draft is the result of the long and thorough work of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. It reflects what they have thought, these figures are not taken from the ceiling, they are the result of this analysis and work. Indeed, if you look at these figures, it may seem that perhaps the smallest ones are being harmed, but I also do not know this risk analysis. Maybe they're one of those 86s, I don't know. In any case, according to the Tax and Customs Board, this draft is a reasonable compromise, so that everyone can continue to operate and tax fraud is reduced. As it says here, 8 million is what's expected right now. I understand that in 2018, so much additional revenue is expected. But in general, this effect should be twenty million a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U115	Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U116	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! It is known that there are 130 fuel sellers in Estonia. When I look at the explanatory statement, I see 86 of them are kind of risky. That's pretty weird. At the same time, it has to be said that gas stations are circa 450 and 400 of them are actually chain gas stations. Were there any alternative approaches to resolving this problem slightly different from directly amending the law, or were there not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U117	Thank you. There were no alternatives on my desk. Perhaps some former finance minister can tell if there have been any on his desk. I would not be here if it were not for the problem of these small-scale filling stations being bought up or co-operating with them in order to carry out large-scale tax fraud. That's why this bill is here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U118	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U119	Good manager! Good minister! I also come to the subject of the previous speakers. First of all, there is no change in the large gas station chains because of this law, the situation remains exactly the same as before when we talk about the guarantee. Small companies now have a guarantee obligation and it could actually be several times as much as it was before EUR 100000. That's one side of it. When we see 86 people who are suspicious, I wonder how the IRS has dealt with them to this day. If he knows they're suspicious, he can control them. This law gives control nothing more than the fact that, if previously, the sale was to be notified every month, then now it must be notified every week. There's more bureaucracy coming. But what does this guarantee provide? If you get the information every week, you know where something bad has been done. The IRS can go and carry out checks immediately, and once a criminal offence has been committed, it can shut the company down and liquidate the company. But we're punishing 80 to 90% of those entrepreneurs who are decent again. Why are we punishing our entrepreneurs, who all have companies based on Estonian capital, why are we punishing these small gas station owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U120	Thank you. The purpose of this draft is not to make the lives of economic operators as difficult as possible and to provide everyone with the greatest possible guarantee, which is why the security for importers has not been increased since there has been no fraud detected. That's the thing. What else was there, about that? Can I just give you a second, 'cause the other half's already gone... Okay!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U121	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My second question is driven by the first question. If the state wants to discipline the taxpayer, I do not think the assumption that large multinational corporations are a priori good taxpayers and our small players are a priori fraudsters is the right one. In a sense, there should, as always, be positive suspicion, I do not want to cast a shadow on any chain, but I am very concerned that we are unable to find a suitable mechanism in this digital age. An enterprise with a turnover of EUR 10000 or EUR 5000 will have to put EUR 5000 as collateral and you will also deduct from it, for example, the profits of possible monthly turnover. Why do we have to raise this guarantee so high to make sure he doesn't cheat? Is there really no alternative system to figure out whether or not it is a cheater?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U123	Thank you. I think it is very difficult to distinguish between multinationals and local companies, because the local company may be international tomorrow and do major tax fraud. It's just the way it's been that those who've been on the market for a long time have behaved. There's no risk, there's no point in changing anything. If this need arises, if there is a danger or if fraud is to be dealt with, then surely this is the next place that needs to be changed in this Chamber. Perhaps it is worth mentioning that the bill also has a positive side, that if so far a very large part of the settlement has been carried out with paper delivery notes, the settlement has been done afterwards, then it will become technically automated, electronic and for many gas station operators, for those already in the sector, this will become easier. Once, the matter must be clarified, but in the future it will be automated and will reduce the administrative burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U124	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U125	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I understand that the current regime is built on trust. We cannot and must not assume that a person is cheating on the country all the time. The current bill is based on the fact that it is cheating. It is therefore ready to tighten and complicate the business environment even more. I have a very specific question. Please indicate the bottlenecks in the Tax and Customs Board that prevent them from dealing with 86 risk companies in substance. Is there no legal competence, there is a lack of resources here that cannot be dealt with, is there a lack of cooperation with the police's economic crime department, or is there a problem with the prosecutor's office? Please highlight the shortcomings that lead to the draft rule of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U126	Thank you. I don't see the fear here that he would go along with the rule of law. The state expects everyone to act honestly on the business market. But if they do not act that way, which is the problem and the reason why this bill is on this table, then the state must take some action. Cooperation goes in the direction of curbing fraudsters, but the law unfortunately does not allow it right now. We can't preemptively say you're a criminal and you're not. This is the problem at the moment that, if data on the previous month are received by the 15th of the following month, excise data and VAT data by the 20th of the month, then there will be a chance to compare them and there will also be a right or a specific reason to go to that company. It'll be punished in retrospect, but it'll be too late. In retrospect, the guarantee can also be increased, but then it will be too late, because tax fraud has been committed and the state will be free of millions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U127	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U128	Good manager! Good waitress! The small association, now established by the Estonian Fuel Association, has said that the Estonian Oil Association has a huge influence on Estonian political parties. I want to ask if that is the case and what it is expressed in. But specifically, I'd like to know if you're going to kill the Ring and family Mikkra with this bill or not. If you can't answer now, why don't you answer me in writing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U129	Thank you. I don't know what to say about the influence on political parties. Every party has to look inside itself and then speak for itself. I don't know if he's having any effect. I don't know what to say about this killing. I'm not familiar with it, but I can look into it and then answer you in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U130	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U131	Thank you. Good minister! Unfortunately, I don't understand your arguments. As you claim, we have a major fraud activity, but at the same time you and the Tax and Customs Board are unable to define whether there is fraud. You claim that the basis of the turnover or the basis of the additional guarantees tells who is a cheater who is not. You're saying the big ones are buying up the little ones, and that's how fraud is caused. Can you give concrete examples? You still missed the question of what specifically is this obstacle at the Tax and Customs Board. If he says there are 86 potential fraudsters, what's behind the finding out if they're really cheaters?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U132	Thank you. The fact that today's laws do not allow them to act effectively is behind this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U133	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Sven Sester, Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs on this particular point, which took place on 7 December. For the sake of the protocol, I note that the draft was presented by Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in the Commission, and that the Chief Justice of the Legal Department of the Tax and Customs Board, Tanel Ruusmaa, Head of the Tax Audit Unit, Erje Mettas, and Chief Tax Auditor Riina Šamatauskas, were also invited to the table as experts and researchers. The Minister of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, presented the content and purpose of the draft in the Commission; I am not going to repeat it, because he completed a review of the content and objectives here just a minute ago. The round of questions that I would mainly introduce to you was this. First of all, the speaker wondered whether the excise duty collection had been facilitated by the change adopted a few years ago, which was based on density, sulphur and viscosity of fuel, and whether the number of excise frauds had decreased in this respect. Ms Mettas replied that this amendment had really helped to prevent and reduce tax avoidance, which is done by blending fuels (if, for example, for tax avoidance purposes, fuel is imported as base oil which has not been subject to excise duty, excise regulation does not apply). Jaanus Marrandi wondered how tax losses would be calculated in the first place. The answer was that statistics on tax fraud are based on and evaluated. This is done not only in the fuel market, but also in all other markets. We could ask by analogy how, for example, the possible tax damage caused by envelope wages in Estonia is calculated. Raivo Põldaru wondered why the existing regulation could not improve tax receipts. He said that providing a guarantee for small-scale filling stations was not a good solution, given that it was a burden on businesses and that alternative measures could be used. Ms Mettas stated that there is currently a minimum guarantee of EUR 0, the minimum guarantee is now intended to be increased to EUR 5000, and the majority of the small-scale filling stations sell less than the minimum guarantee limit, i.e. the margins to be set are in practice so low that they should not have a negative impact on the future functioning of businesses. Ms Mettas also stated that the current system would provide the state with information on the risk of increased turnover and possible tax fraud at the filling station on the 20th of the following month. However, in the future, when this bill comes into force, it will provide an overview and information in real time, as it will be an electronic system and electronic delivery notes. Riina Šamatauskas said that there are currently 49 persons holding up to two filling stations in Estonia and 12 of them have a guarantee of EUR 0, 17 have a guarantee of EUR 2000 to 5000 and 20 have a higher guarantee. This is the current situation. Thus, the minimum security requirement concerns a total of 29 persons. If the gas station sells less than 274000 litres within two months, the security requirement is EUR 5000. No company with a guarantee of less than EUR 5000 is currently selling more than 274000 litres of fuel during this period. Tanel Ruusmaa, head of the legal department of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, added that the guarantee requirement could be met by paying either the deposit of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board by receiving a guarantee from the bank or by setting up a mortgage if necessary. All these methods are possible, they usually involve some lower cost, but no company is forced directly, if it does not wish to do so and has other options, to pay EUR 5 000 to the Tax and Customs Board. Toomas Kivimägi pointed out that, if the guarantee was calculated on the basis of the tax liability so far, the amount of the security would then be calculated on the basis of the cost of the fuel sold, calculated on the basis of the tax liability arising therefrom, i.e. some of the security of the fuel sellers would increase and they would have to apply for a reduction in the security. Eje Mettas of the Tax and Customs Board explained that the law provides for points where the guarantee can be reduced. In the meantime, there was also a question of how this reduction of the security would work. Ms Mettas explained in the Commission that this was not a discretionary decision, but that the company would submit an application and that the reduced rates would apply automatically if the conditions were met. As of March 2018, applications for the reduction of the security can be submitted and the calculation of the guarantee on new grounds will take effect from August 2018. By the time of entry into force, all applications have been processed and all applicant companies will be covered by a reduced security as from the entry into force of the new system. This is very important: if the law enters into force and you have previously had a reduced risk and a lower level of collateral, then the new law will not start with a zero position, but will continue at the level of risk that your company currently has. Toomas Kivimägi wanted the Ministry of Finance to send a comprehensive table to the Economic Commission, without the names of the companies, showing the current guarantee requirement for the companies and the guarantee requirement following the entry into force of the legislative amendment. He also asked what technical capabilities and skills are needed to use the electronic delivery system and how much it costs to switch to this system. Riina Šamatauskas explained that according to the new system the gas station operator has to submit a sales report once a week, currently the requirement to submit it once a month. It is currently possible to submit it on paper or upload it to an information system. The existence of this technical capability is a prerequisite for the granting of a licence. Setting up Internet access at a filling station may be one of the possible types of costs, for example. Ms Mettas supplemented this response by the fact that the direct costs to small businesses of using information systems were not incurred, for example, storage facilities were able to abandon the current economic software and keep stock records in the system set up by the State, as the State would also create a universal system which could, if necessary, be joined by all companies operating on this market. Jaanus Marrandi was interested in the owners of companies that cause tax losses. Ms Mettas stated that, if you look at the tax losses that have already occurred today, the owners of these companies are usually persons who live outside the European Union and have never been to Estonia. It is impossible to prosecute them in practice. There was also the thought that the Minister said today in this speech chair about this so-called scheme that the question is not whether the buyer is a larger company or a smaller company, but the question is that a smaller gas station is being bought and it is being used for short-term, accelerated tax fraud. Why don't you catch the wind in the fields later? Erki Savisaar pointed out that the EUR 5 000 guarantee was relatively low compared to the volume of tax fraud. Ms Mettas explained that a certain amount of collateral could be used to sell a fixed number of litres per month. If the filling station wishes to increase its sales volume, it must increase the security as the electronic system does not allow it to sell over the guaranteed volume. For example, if there is a very sudden desire to increase collateral, it will certainly also attract attention to supervision and, under certain conditions, it may also increase the risk factor. Riina Šamatauskas added that the system calculates the average price of the fuel sold on the basis of the average price received from the Estonian Liquid Fuel Agency, the system calculates the value of the transaction and controls the existence of a guarantee. All of this is done electronically. Finally, the speaker wanted to know whether in other countries an electronic delivery system would be used for liquid fuel. Riina Šamatauskas stated that Hungary has an analogous or similar system, but with much more limited use than our draft should be put into effect with its application. We finally got to the decision-making process, and those decisions I can bring to this hall. First of all, the first decision of the Committee on Economic Affairs was that it was proposed to put this draft on the plenary agenda by December 12, which was yesterday, but it was transferred to today. The decision was consensual. The second decision was to propose the completion of the first reading, which was also consensual. The third decision was to propose a deadline of 29 December for the submission of amendments, and that decision was also consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U135	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U136	Thank you! In the Commission, we did not yet have this exact list; this data came later. Indeed, this list shows that there are only 29 people affected by this EUR 5 000 deposit. What an emotional and dramatic letter we had in the Commission from the new Fuel Sellers' Association. People seemed worried. Their concerns can be understood. I have this question: do you think it would be reasonable to take some of the tensions that have also been felt about the questions that have been put here and to have a meeting and a debate with these people before this bill comes back to this Chamber again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U137	Thank you for that question. I am in this role for a long time today that all I have to do is talk about what was said in the Commission. I would like to talk about everything, but it is correct to talk about the Commission's debate. First of all, I would like to mention that I believe that this draft is a sensible draft in its nature. In my opinion, the transition to electronic delivery forms is highly innovative. I think there are certain sectors in Estonia where the share of fraud has been higher, as is well known to be the metalworking industry, the gold business and the fuel business. I'm afraid that's been the case. This has been addressed by the State and, in some positions, even used the possibilities of reverse charge to reduce fraud. In the case of fuel, I think it makes sense to switch to electronic delivery notes. It seems to me that today in this Chamber, our debate focused rather on the question of the guarantee. No one questioned whether the fuel should be electronically monitored when moving from point A to point B. At least I didn't think anyone was gonna protest it. To be honest, it would also be strange to have a protest against it. As regards the question of Jaanus Marandi as to whether the Commission will meet with all parties during this process, it will certainly meet. I'm sure he will. It's natural. I understand that the so-called potential umbrella organisation of small fuel sellers is either already in place or in place, it was not before. But I do know that the Ministry of Finance has been working on this bill for a long time. Sometimes we have criticised one or the other ministry for the fact that the draft has been too hasty, but this draft has really been discussed for a very long time. I remember that as early as 2015, when I had become the Minister of Finance myself, we started talking about this issue so that we should reach the electronic fuel delivery notes. During this period, the Estonian Oil Association, which was at that time the only roofing organisation to represent the interests of these entrepreneurs, was contacted. However, I do think that, between the first and second readings, the Economic Committee and the working group will certainly meet with the parties, listen to these concerns and also try to clarify whether these concerns are justified in order to achieve a situation where there is as little tax fraud as possible. It is, I think, a common interest of all of us that there should be no competitive advantage as a result of non-payment of taxes. Fuel business is a volume business, and if the price of a litre goes down by one cent because taxes are unpaid, it gives you an enormous competitive advantage. It's a volume business. On the other hand, of course, there is a general interest in making our business work, whether the company is large or small.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U138	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U139	Honourable President! Respectable Minister of Finance! Sorry, respectable waitress! [[S. Sester's laughing.]] Was this draft initiated by the Ministry of Finance in its time, or rather the Tax and Customs Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U140	Thank you. All drafts are always initiated by the Ministry. I understand that your question came from the Minister of Finance's statement that the Tax and Customs Board has been input. I think that's the whole truth in his answer. Of course, inputs come from different agencies, with this example from the Tax and Customs Board, but the physical initiator of the draft is always the Ministry. When the Minister of Finance comes here to defend the bill, it is no longer the draft of the Ministry of Finance, but it is the draft of the Government of the Republic, which the Minister of Finance has brought to the Government of the Republic and which has been drawn up by several parties, including the Tax and Customs Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U141	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U142	Oops!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U143	Mikhail Stalnukhin waved at me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U144	Maybe it was necessary. There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations. First reading of Bill 536 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 4 p.m. on 29 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U145	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Priit Sibul, the opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U146	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to introduce the draft by the name of the president. Looking back in history, I simply recall that we have changed the excise law more than ten times in this Chamber since 2003. In general terms, excise policy has proven itself and has moved in the right direction. Of course, the reduction in alcohol consumption cannot only be attributed to excise policy; it has not only been due to excise policy, but people's perceptions and values have changed. Excise policy must be based on a number of factors. On the one hand, it is an opportunity to influence people's behaviour, but in doing so, the policy of neighbours must also be taken into account. We have wanted the free movement of people and goods, and that is why excise policy must also take account of the activities of neighbours. We know that, just as we have planned an increase in alcohol excise duty in Finland and Latvia for the next few years. It is true that there are still differences: in Finland excise duties are higher and in Latvia they are significantly lower than we do. It is important to consider what is happening at Estonia's borders, that trade on the northern border is decreasing and that the number of tourists is also significantly decreasing, and that this has an impact on other areas. Trade has grown on the southern border, and my birth town, Valga, has had a whole new breath, but I am not very convinced that it is the enthusiasm and activity that I would really like to see there. In view of these circumstances, the Estonian Central Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Estonian Social Democratic Party have proposed to amend the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity. Our aim is to halve the planned increase in excise duty on beer and other alcohol for 2018 and on wine containing up to 6 vol % ethanol and other fermented beverages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U147	Good waitress, you have questions. First, Aivar Sõerd asks. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U148	Honourable Vice President! Honourable representative of the initiators. Please explain to me how it is possible that the difference in excise duty rates with Latvia will be almost double that of 1 February. The Ministry of Finance itself tells us that the difference in prices for both lean and strong alcohol remains double. We know, this is demonstrated by the practice of other countries, and also by the theory that if the difference in the rate of excise duty is more than EUR 4, border trade will occur. For lean alcohol, the difference after 1 February is EUR 10 with Latvia; for strong alcohol, the difference is about EUR 8. How is a reduction in border trade possible in this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U149	Our goal is that border trade should not grow. The rates of excise duty have also been different at the northern border. Why are these excise increases reduced? The main reason is that we have probably underestimated the activity of border trade at the southern border in the past. In order to prevent it from growing, these increases in excise duty will be reduced by half.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U150	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable originator waitress! My question is the follow-up to Mr Sõerdi's question. Did you not consider going back at all to the excise increase that has already taken place, which has still led to a very threatening situation for border trade? On the other hand, I have a purely linguistic question. On page 1 of your explanatory memorandum, there is a very interesting expression: the downward pressure on the northern border and the increase in the southern border. What does this mean, however, when presented in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U152	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, you have probably noticed that there have also been different public perceptions of these reasonable rates of excise duty. This is just the compromise that these three parties have reached. That is why this rate is like this, but it was certainly discussed not to increase. There are political groups in this Chamber who think that excise duty should be even lower, perhaps lower than in Latvia, etc. Opinions and perceptions vary. You are clearly a better linguist than we who wrote this explanatory statement. But it has been said here that on the northern border this so-called activity and the share of Finnish tourists is decreasing, right, and the people of Estonia and Finns are increasingly active on the southern border.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U153	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I sense that you will not cherish the hope that border trade can be reversed by this change in excise duty, rather perhaps you will manage to reduce the extent of the damage a little. I read in the explanatory memorandum that the amount of alcohol coming from Latvia to Estonia is 11% of the amount of alcohol legally sold in Estonia in 2017. Could this be the amount we are seeking to reduce? How big could it be in 2018 and how long-term can we reverse this cross-border trade in all respects?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U155	Thank you. It is a very complex issue and, to some extent, it has to do with faith. We know that when people are starting to move in some direction, it is always and ultimately no longer price-dependent. You can also see people who go to several stores looking for cheaper butter, forgetting the time and transportation or other resources wasted on shoes. It wouldn't count. If people are used to doing something, they're gonna keep doing it. But I think we should do our utmost not to increase these amounts. Finns consider it normal that 10% of the alcohol consumed there is purchased from Estonia. I think that we should, in the long term, aim to ensure that this percentage at the southern border is not higher. It's probably right now, yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U156	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! Excise policy, or ultimately price, is actually one measure that can affect people's consumption patterns. Undoubtedly, in the case of alcohol, the price is one of the arguments for reducing consumption. But all this on the assumption that we haven't crossed the line with it. I think that if you ask 101 members of the Riigikogu in a private interview today, I think everyone will admit that we have crossed the line with this. This involves not only buying large quantities of alcohol, but indeed the purchase of a number of other goods, which will certainly affect small country shops. Why don't you give up the increase in excise duty at all? I understand that this is a fiscal measure and it is difficult, but the economic damage to Estonia in the long term may be significantly higher than the tax revenue you hope to obtain, due to border trade, by reducing this tax increase by only half.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U158	Thank you. As I said, there were, of course, different opinions during the discussions, but this was the place where the three groups were able to agree.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U159	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! Today you also want to push through the state budget next year with a coalition and there is a rather optimistic forecast for the collection of alcohol excise duties. That's the money that's being distributed to the budget. The latest tax collection data came today. Alcohol duty is 6.9% less than a year earlier this year. With this draft, you will reduce next year's forecast for the collection of excise duties on alcohol by EUR 10 million, from 341 million to 330 million. Just for the verbatim report, I'm asking that we have six months to see what was said in this hall today. Will you stick to the fact that next year, an alcohol tax of EUR 330 million will be collected, just as the budget for this bill will remain?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U161	Thank you. I've been talking about an understanding or a sense of the basis on which these adjustments have been made. This is the basis for analysts' views. As your former Minister of Finance, you know that politicians don't do analysis. These figures are established on the basis of summer forecasts. The officials of the Ministry of Finance claim that there is no reason to change these forecasts. Indeed, the understanding of the coalition has been this, also looking at how forecasts have been brought down and delivered with them, so that it is reasonable to reduce this increase by half from February next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U162	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U163	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I welcome the fact that, in making this amendment, you came before us with a separate draft rather than grafting it on any draft pending in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But this 330 million seems extremely unrealistic to me, too. Why didn't you go this way in response to this excise interference, which would certainly be the right way to save the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U164	You know how to put the budget together. We reached an agreement on this relatively late. I am not surprised that we will continue to deal with these issues in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U165	Thank you, waitress. No further questions for you. The presentation of the commission will be made by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U166	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 7 December. There was no substantive debate. Why this happened, I'll explain it a little later. Four procedural decisions were taken: to send the draft to the Chamber by 12 December, i.e. yesterday, Tuesday, to close the first reading, to appoint the chairman of the Commission as rapporteur and to appoint a deadline of 28 December at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Now, a little bit of a prelude. On 1 December, the Ministry of Finance sent the Committee on Finance a draft of two amendments, a proposal which we discussed with the Minister of Finance on 4 December. The minister answered the questions for about 40 minutes. Nine of these questions were specifically about excise duty. If there is any interest in this issue in the Chamber, I will certainly introduce what was discussed on 4 December. At the time, it was planned that these amendments would go to draft 499, but the following day, on 5 December, these amendments were not found by one of them to halve the increase in excise duty and the other to create corresponding guarantees in the state budget, and therefore, on the following day, 6 December, three separate draft laws were issued for the procedure of the Riigikogu factions on this subject. So that's the prelude to this thing. We discussed this subject in depth on 4 December and therefore there was no substantive debate in the Commission last Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U167	Good waitress! Colleagues have no complaints about the Commission's work, everything seems clear. Questions for you....
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U168	I'm sorry! I forgot to say one thing that happened outside the Commission. This was a request to the Ministry to send factual information about our neighbours, about how excise increases are planned in Finland and Latvia. These data have come, they are available, so those who wish to view them may look at them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U169	There is a recommendation to send them to members of the Riigikogu for e-mail. So, since there were no questions, we can go to the negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U170	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! A good colleague, Andres Herkel, commended the initiators for not coming up with a bunch, but for presenting a separate draft. That's the end of the Free Party's recognition of the bill. The draft as a whole is incomplete and unsuitable in its content. If the members of the respected coalition hope that the opposition will be as benevolent to your thoughts as was the teacher at Laur Paunvere Parish School, if you can't do the whole thing, the way is halfway, then, friends, you're wrong. This incomplete solution will not satisfy us in any way. In this hall, it has already been repeated almost through boredom that excise increases have crossed any line, over the shaft. The only reasonable solution is to eliminate these increases in excise duties both in February next year and on 1 January 2019 and 1 January 2020. Fortunately, amendments to this draft can be tabled on this issue, and the Free Party Group will quite certainly use this opportunity. For my part, I dare say that this bill is, in a sense, such a PR trick. The small party of the coalition, the IRL, has won a small job, because the other parties of the coalition still respect and respect him. Minister of Finance Tõniste, who has been relatively hidden, was able to appear in public as a'reasonable man' who senses that excise duties have crossed the border. The Prime Minister was able to compromise as a politician who reached an agreement in the coalition. Well, I'm sorry about all this. It is not in this sense that this solution will not be saved. Today, there has been a sneak-in-the-shadow understanding of the waitress today, so she has already given it through the flowers to realise that we have a negative supplementary budget waiting for us next year. I think it might be easier to think of now that it will come and that the proceeds in the form that we hope will not happen. The fact that we've gone overboard with all of this illustrates a very painful detail in my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you or many of you have read in the social media the call that hundreds, or even thousands, of Estonian people will line up with cars one after the other on 24 February next year and drive to Latvia to buy alcohol. It's a scary story. I'm sorry. I mean, it's an extremely embarrassing story. I very much hope that this will not happen or at least will not happen to such a large extent, because it would be extremely embarrassing to associate the birthday of the Republic of Estonia with the short-sighted excise policy of the government. But this is an example of where the people have come to, where the people have been taken, or where some people have been taken. It is no longer just bragging about someone or someone's whim; it is a very serious warning from which we should draw our own conclusions. The arguments as to why the government behaves in this way and how it might behave have sounded in this Chamber, but I am happy to take this opportunity to speak here and introduce you to an interesting article published by journalist Aivar Siepa a few days ago in the newspaper of West Life. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U171	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U172	Namely, he had a figure that I don't think has been used in this room before in connection with the increase in excise duty. He said that the annual increase in alcohol duty is like a fast-track loan that can help boost the Treasury. As with a fast-forward loan, a new loan will be taken again to delete the previous one, and the new one will be taken again and again with a higher percentage. There's a painful logic in this image. Because how has it been now? How was that last year? Ten months were behind schedule for the collection of alcohol duty. At the end of the year the merchants bought the warehouses full and the expected amount came together. It's scared that the excise increase will come. But in fact, a loan was already made for the so-called next year's receipts. Next year, i.e. now, this year, everything will happen again, because people will buy alcohol again. When we met representatives of the Tax and Customs Board in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, they were not very concerned about the receipts. Why? They openly said that when the increase in alcohol excise duties takes place on 1 February, in January, there will be huge purchases again, and if the increase comes on 1 January 2019, then huge purchases will be made in December 2018. This is how this snowball grows and grows: all the time it is bought in advance and the next year it will not be collected. This amount must somehow be filled and we will increase the excise duty, in the hope that more money will come. Guys, where are we gonna get out like this? That's not smart politics. Once again, the Estonian people need a very strong message from the government, a very strong acknowledgement of their mistake. It's not enough to drop to half the excise. This powerful message can only be one: the two next planned increases in excise duty will be excluded. Then we have the hope that the mutual distrust between the government and the people will end, and eventually the madness of driving to Latvia, which hit the Estonian people, will end, almost like a public sport, to go to Latvia for a drink. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U173	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U174	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely do not understand why we have to be a country of cheap alcohol, why we cannot be a country of cheap food, for example. Why do we have the things that are needed in every family - bread, milk, or, meat - more expensive than in large countries where the average wage is two or two and a half times as high as ours? Why does all interest focus on alcohol all the time? Who's behind this? Who is interested in the cheapness of alcohol and the ease of taking it, and any man with an arbitrary income can poison himself to infinity? Why are we talking about this? Nobody cares about the shops that trade ready-made clothes in Estonia. Why is no one saying that we should become, for example, a country of cheap clothes and look at this problem? There are hundreds of shops that sell shoes and clothes. But we have the same subject all the time. But this thought came to me during the speech by the esteemed Andres, and it is purely emotional. I want to talk about something else about this law. My personal experience in the Committee on Monetary Affairs is, of course, modest. But for the first time now, and even last year, I have witnessed how we coordinate all the time, talk to the organisations involved, and look for some sort of compromise option. I would like to remind you, with regard to the excise duties we are talking about, that when we started this year, there was talk about packages, sweetened drinks, etc. What's left is a very small part. We've had serious debates, we've met a lot of associations and organizations. These compromises, which have finally been reached, are worth supporting. The health aspect of alcohol consumption is and was very important and remains very important. So don't protect cheap booze, look for any other way. All the more so because I have a chance to remember how long it took for a debate on alcohol yesterday. Yesterday you showed your interest in less alcoholism, today you show some other interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U175	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't quite understand what that Mikhail Steelman was saying here. He believed, as a true Soviet statesman, that he runs the economy, he controls the prices, and he decides what kind of goods must be at what price. Reality is different. The reality is not that someone represents the interests of a group with this criticism, but that the government has made a very serious mistake. The government has turned over alcohol excises and it has triggered a huge border trade. In the near future, I will provide in writing the information that has reached my disposal, which I have obtained and searched for, but which I have not actually received from the government. However, I have not been the one who says that the government's forecast is wrong. All in all, tax revenues may come more or less as foreseen in the forecast, although I believe that this moment of upheaval in excise duty has arrived. I've always said that there's a break in consumption. On the one hand, consumption is also in constant decline without any hysterical increases in excise duty and restrictions, but we have opened a cheap alcohol tap by the fact that we have been hysterical. As a result, the fall in consumption may have ended, it may be that the current moderate alcohol policy, with changes and changes in attitudes, shaped by the trend that 12.6 litres per capita were consumed in 2007 and 8.3 litres last year, is now moving in a different direction. It's just the cheapest stuff that hurts the most vulnerable, those who are price sensitive, those who... [[There's a phone ringing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U177	Jürgen Ligi, can you hold on a second? We have an extraneous sound here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U178	Put it in the flower vase, he'll shut up. Basically, we have achieved that the most vulnerable to whom we raise excise duty, those who are price sensitive, those who are alcohol sensitive, are the ones who go on cargo trips. I'm not talking so much about the budget, but these people get cheap booze, they buy it. It's not gonna help if some plan committee chairman comes up here and asks why we want cheap booze here. It's not ours to want, other people want, and other people buy it. Be normal now, our excise duty rates are already the highest in Europe compared to purchasing power. That's why migration's starting to be that way. I specifically want to say that the government is not dealing with the reduction of excise duty here, that the government coalition is once again raising excise duty, and that is exceptionally stupid. Actually, it's too much. It's already been said. We should consider reducing the excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U179	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, please! Mr. Pier! Mr. Sester, will you let him through?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U180	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to this talk about a smaller increase in excise duties on alcohol, I will remember, no matter what, the former advertising trick of Eesti Energia when consumers were threatened with a 50% price increase. This, of course, raised people's hairs and caused a huge protest. Then, at one point, the good news came out: you know, we will reduce the price increase! Instead of 50%, either 25% or 30% were raised, and everyone cheered for the joy that the hurrah, the price increase, was reduced. Today, we are seeing the exact same eye distortion trick, which is actually just fooling the public. Since I was beginning to remember something here, I recall 2016 when Kadri Simson made a statement in the newspaper Capital on behalf of the Central Party condemning the rise in excise duty. Speaking specifically about excise duties on fuel, he said that we are not alone on the fuel market, we also have a neighbour, with Estonia's excise duty on diesel being even a quarter larger than Latvia, leading to many transport companies filling in Latvia. There were 49% of them then, and now there are considerably more. We are also losing excise duty on income tax and VAT. After all, these exact same things are also competent for alcohol and everything else, only electricity cannot be carried from Latvia with a bag. Looking at the price of electricity, for example, in Finland or Sweden, we must again admit that the consumer pays less there than we do here. And you want to raise the price! During the eight months of this year, we lost 2.3 million euros in excise duty and it is predicted that this amount could rise to EUR 70, 80 or 100 million. We are going to miss this money because you, the coalition, all three of you here, in your greed and stupidity, see no other way to bring money to the treasury than by raising taxes in the most vulgar and stupid way, even though we know what this will bring. Our money's going to Latvia. Now, if you raise excise duty again, the more money goes to Latvia. There are no such anecdotes in the mouth of the people: 'What is Latvia Nokia? '''Ossinovsky. 'Jne. The previous speaker said that we are talking about remote matters and why we are not talking about the fact that food prices in Estonia are more expensive than in many other European countries. The answer is very simple: it is not so stupid, it is not so greedy, there are significantly lower taxes on food than in Estonia. In order to develop the economy and entrepreneurship of the country, and to fill the Treasury, these grey brain cells, which have always been promoted by Hercule Poirot, must be used. Use gray brain cells! In order to recover the tax revenue so far, excise duties must be brought to the level where they were before the last increase. It's very simple. Then it ends... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U181	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U182	... a vodka rally to Latvia, the money will flow to the Treasury and no longer be bought home for a reserve of vodka and beer lots. Otherwise, when the guests are gone, you'll see that I still have so much left, why don't we have a few more drinks? All this shit is gonna end, and we're gonna have tourists from Finland bringing money back to our treasury again. It's so simple and elementary. I am deeply ashamed of my colleagues, who close their eyes to all of this. You are talking about promoting public health as we speak, while you are not really promoting it. In fact, you're rats in grain trays, you chew holes in it and let the fruit drain out. You should be embarrassed and ashamed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U183	The political groups have no more wishes for words. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 559 be terminated. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 559 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 29 December. Ladies and gentlemen, we have worked through the items on the Tuesday agenda that were not dealt with yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U184	We have come to the processing of the items on today's agenda. The fourth item is the third reading of the Law on Civil Status Procedures initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other Acts. I will open negotiations, if you wish, the representatives of the political groups can take the floor. There are no requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 511. Let's start preparing the vote. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I would like to point out that we are at item 4, i.e. the third reading of the Civil Status Acts Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related draft law amending other laws 511. We need to have a vote. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 4 against, with no abstentions. The draft law amending the Civil Status Act and related other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U185	The fifth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law of the bailiff initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Representatives of the political groups have the floor. There is no wish for words, which is why we need to have a final vote. Good Riigikogu, can we go to the final vote? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, ', so we can go to the final vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws relating thereto 280. Please take a stand and vote. There were 81 members of the Riigikogu, 4 against and 1 abstention. The draft law amending the Law on bailiffs and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U186	The sixth item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Tobacco initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to make speeches? Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Andres Ammas is in the chair, he has something important to say to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U187	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Based on the alcohol debate that took place in this very hall yesterday, let me start with a personal one. I sincerely apologize to all the professionals in this Chamber for the courage to speak as a total ignorant. I have not smoked any ordinary cigarettes or e-cigarettes in my life, and if God does, I will not smoke. But I am here to say why the Free Party Group cannot vote in favour of this draft. The main reason is the fact that we have been confronted with over and over again in the last year: the coalition's desire to regulate matters, orders and orders to change people's lives. We think that this is going too far, and we cannot support this approach. The risks associated with this bill are. There is a small risk of border trade in this form, and there is also a risk of smuggling. Personally, it does not seem fair to me and many of my colleagues to equalise e-cigarettes with regular cigarettes and to treat users of e-cigarettes in the same way as smokers of ordinary cigarettes are treated. We believe that this is neither fair nor justified. So the Free Party Group does not support this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U188	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U189	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to admit I've been smoking a cigarette. Sorry, it was a cigar! However, I have nevertheless advised the group not to vote in favour of this draft, and whose passion is greater, it could vote against. The reasons are amazingly similar to what Mr Andres said. The most passionate of us are interested in the subject of e-cigarette. Not everyone's passionate, but this big picture is ugly. This is not the ugliest subject of the big picture, but this big picture is ugly enough to get out of here or to show your attitude towards everything this government produces: these are orders, bans, hypocritical piety and interference in the personal choices of citizens. Tobacco is certainly not something that I would defend, although it is still hypocritical to hide goods. However, I myself am not voting, and I believe that there are quite a number of such people in our group. The reason for this, however, is that this policy is too systematic and too repulsive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U190	The political groups have no more wishes for words. Let's start with the final vote. Can we go to the vote? No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a stand and vote on the draft law amending the tobacco law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I couldn't vote, even though I came down here on a real run. I can give you the head that...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U192	I'm sorry! Helir, since you have spoken, I must interrupt the voting procedure. I'm interrupting it now. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U193	Thank you. I wanted to point out that, before the vote, the signal was given for such a short time that it was not even possible to reach a vote with the run. [[???Hääl saalist: 'Suitsetaja mees.' Naer saalis.???]] In fact, I did not go smoking!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U194	More practice always helps, good Helir. Leaving the joke aside, I asked the hall if the hall agreed that we were going to the vote, and there were no objections. But I will take note of the comment, and the next time there is a two-minute call sign, because the IRL Group believes that this is the way to do it. Now, but now we have to go through the voting procedure again, there is nothing to do. Ladies and gentlemen, the law amending the Tobacco Act, which is initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted against, 24 against and 4 abstentions. Draft law 357 amending the Tobacco Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U195	The seventh item is the third reading of draft law 507 on the amendment of the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. Would the groups like to speak? That's not what you want. We can go to the final vote. Two minutes to prepare the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Securities Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in this regard 507. Please take a stand and vote. There were 84 members of the Riigikogu, 6 against and no abstentions. Bill 507 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U196	The eighth item on today's agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the groups want to speak? Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Social Democrats. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U197	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, We have probably all read and learned that the cost benefit helps to solve many things, but the same word sometimes gives rise to moderate misunderstandings. This is also the case with today's draft. The reason for initiating the draft is understandable. The reward of volunteer sports judges is now taking place in a wide variety of ways, i.e., folkally speaking, how God guides. From time to time, it takes place in contracts, it has taken place in scholarships, but it turned out that this was not very well in line with the law, it has taken place on the basis of expenditure documents, and at second reading, we even heard that it had been done by means of tickets to sports competitions. Because of my teaching profession, I know quite a number of young people who act as a sports judge. When I asked them how they would be rewarded, among other things, I received the answer that the reward would be given by the Chief Judge or the organiser of the contest. It is understandable, especially for young people, that there is a need for additional regulation. I would remind you that the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the Estonian Olympic Committee, found that it would be helpful to organise the field significantly if the voluntary sports judges could be compensated for the costs of the competition for up to 20 tax-free euros in competitions in the calendar of sports associations. These costs shall not exceed EUR 1040 per year and may relate to arrivals, clothing, licences, work equipment, training, accommodation or any other such. It should be said that, if judges need to be paid more, it is mostly high-level judges and rather an employment relationship. There are about 4500 sports judges in Estonia. Quite a few of them operate in just a few competitions a year. It can be assumed that if the proposed draft materialises, many sports judges will be interested in making their activities more active and maybe there will be reasonable opportunities to spend more time in their home country. I can see the main positive impact, however, of young judges under the age of 20, whose work is becoming much more flexible for sports clubs and schools. In my opinion, however, this is a very important educational aspect. In order to be entitled to compensation, a young sports judge must at least sign. He doesn't always do that right now. I also recognise that I understand very well the concern that this board has voiced at second reading that exceptions should not be viewed very well in the tax world. But what is a good additional solution for the world of sport does not just coincide with the exception of the tax world at the moment. There is a proposal to opt for the world of sport this time, although I very much recognise and understand those people who stand for clarity in the tax world. I also understand the concern that maybe the regulation in the law is a bit inclined towards ball games. There is a competition season longer than in some open water or certain sports that require snow. True, in seasonal sports competitions are usually more frequent, but here we just have to accept the belief that in a diverse world of sport, full equality is not possible. One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U198	Please! One minute more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U199	I'll say my last sentence again. It is true that in seasonal sports competitions also take place more closely, but we just have to accept the belief that in a diverse world of sport, we have to reconcile ourselves with the pursuit of equal opportunities, not always by achieving them. Finally. Sports clubs and sports schools have been talking for decades about the problem of compensation for voluntary judges. With this draft, we will take a step forward in resolving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U200	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U201	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against this bill and I think there could be more of them. We are in no way anti-sports, we are too involved in this issue and we are too often dependent on it. First of all, thanks to the previous speaker, he still bowed towards the cleanliness of the tax system. It's not a thing in itself, it's not something that goes against the sports world. On the contrary, all small worlds are interested in enabling the tax system to function and the big world to be effective in serving small ones. The stupidity of this law is that it is added to large sections in some very tiny case. That is what the devil of tax exemptions is about: you create one exception and you actually put in a stupid position the same person you're making the benefit of, instead of making up some general provision, such as voluntary compensation. I'm not saying it's the perfect form to take out now because it hasn't been dealt with lately. But now there will be a precedent on which all individual cases will later be placed, soon there will be 200, and then we will have no money for sports or anything else. The money's going to go opaque. It is simply a question of dignity and hygiene: there must be no exceptions. The exception creates a new precedent if it is too narrow and if it has not been considered. The reason why I am voting against the draft above all is that it was defended by the Minister for Culture and the Committee on Culture, who have never held the law on income tax, I am sure of it and have not participated in these earlier debates. The Riigikogu has not heard an adequate story about this panel as to what alternatives might be to solve the same problem. Why must one profession, which is actually social, be written separately between large sections? So please, the more votes against, the better. Well, I'm voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U202	The political groups have no more wishes for words. We can start preparing the final vote on the draft. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 534. Please take a stand and vote. (meeting of 65 members of the Riigikogu) by 7 votes to 7 with 7 abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U203	The ninth item is the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 499. The representatives of the political groups, as always at third reading, have the opportunity to speak. Mr Stalnukhin, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U204	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely regret those of our colleagues who are currently absent from this Chamber, because they are missing the opportunity to support this fantastic good law that we have been working on for so long. At the time of the initiation, this bill had two objectives. I will start with the second one, this is the restoration of the local government's income tax rate to what it had been before 2009. Now, in three years, by 2021, we will finally solve this problem. We will give the local authorities back this revenue base, which a government chairman has once said in this Chamber, that when the crisis ends, we will recover. Now the crisis is likely to end. The second part aims to make the tax environment more favourable for self-employed workers. It consists of 13 separate points and is also fully positive. If I can give you such an example, the World Bank will be developing a rating such as the age of doing business since 2005. This means that 10 criteria will be taken, evaluated on the basis of them, and given a place in this report. We are surprisingly high, in the 12th place among these 190 countries. We have Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Hong Kong, Singapore, the United States and Great Britain before us. We're in very good company. Once, when this rating began, in 2005 we started out in the 16th place, also in a pretty good place. Then, over the years, we fell to the 24th, the year before, we were back on the 16th, and this year's result is already 12th. In fact, the forecast will also be made for next year, and we will also have a very high place, again 12. I think that such a high place in the world system in assessing business simplicity also depends on the draft laws that we are now facing. We support self-employed people, we support local authorities, everyone currently has this opportunity. The Centre Party will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U205	The political groups have no further requests to speak. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to you for a final vote on the draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 499. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 2 abstentions. The draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U206	The tenth item is the third reading of the draft State Budget Act of 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Stalnukhin, President of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U207	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The second reading of the State Budget Act took place in this Chamber on 15 November. Then, until 29 November at 5.15 p.m., there was time for amendments. These were received and dealt with by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its three meetings on 5, 7 and 11 December. There are currently nine amendments in the table of amendments. Five of them are proposals for amendments by the Reform Party and have the same content as they were at second reading, if necessary, I will comment. There are four other amendments to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One, the third amendment is clear and contains 31 points in total. The point is that every year, when the state budget is adopted after it has already been processed in the Riigikogu, new data are generated by ministries, sometimes in October, sometimes in November. Then some lines need to be specified. For one reason or another, factual errors arise, which must be corrected. Thus, the third amendment, which was also supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, consists of 31 amendments received from ministries. Next, the seventh suggestion. Here is a table with a total of 528 lines, and it covers four million euros, these are local, regional investments. Amendment 7 refers to Annex 1 and to the documents that you can now take from the back of the hall. This is a very long amendment and can be looked at in detail there. Two other amendments. One of them, the ninth, relates to the fact that one of the laws that has just been adopted removes the need to comment on one issue of sport, so the text is taken out. The eighth amendment consists of two parts: one wording was erroneously left out of the budget and the other is clarification. The last time we discussed this draft on 11 December, procedural decisions were adopted at the time. One was the consensual decision to carry out the third reading today, on 13 December. The second decision was to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a law, and the votes were divided as follows: 8 for, 4 against and 0 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U208	Good waitress, colleagues don't have any questions for you. I'm opening negotiations now. I recall that only the representatives of the political groups can speak. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Riigikogu! For a moment, I had a feeling that it was a boycott against Mr Stalnukhin or that there were no questions or speeches at the third reading of the state budget. However, the Free Party Group was planning to state why we are voting against this budget. In this Chamber, there have been many times such reasoning that the ex-opposition is always against the state budget and the coalition's thing is to carry it out. I think the arguments I put forward here are those that the Free Party has always spoken about, and I myself have spoken for longer than the Free Party has existed. I believe that, by seven points, I can perhaps go through the most important issues that make it impossible for us to support such a state budget. I guess we've talked about them before. This budget is in deficit. It is in deficit at a time when the economy is growing and if, by any logic, savings are to be made, rather than excessive spending. This 61 million would in itself have been correctable by the amendments. We made proposals for second reading, which were, of course, rejected. The deficit is expected to become even greater and this approach must under no circumstances be supported in view of the future. We also disagree with the tax structure underlying this budget. This applies not only to a very unsuccessful excise policy, but also to the entire tax-free minimum and refund mechanism, and to the fact that spouses no longer have the possibility to submit joint declarations etc., etc. That's a big problem. In our opinion, this reform should have been done in a completely different way. I also remembered from here that by now the press has finally come up with a point that we have noticed before. Indeed, one exemption scheme, which was implemented for one year for the management of the IRL, cost EUR 1,7 million. Such highly complex and unforeseen tax experiments are certainly not correct. This budget will require a large deficit or a negative supplementary budget next year. Excise duties are not adequately reflected here. Income tax on dividends has also probably been overestimated. Mr Onions also referred to the possibility of an additional budget here today, in essence, when he presented the draft which is holding back the increase in excise duty. Well, we'll see what happens next year. In any case, the latest excise change that you want to push through is not adequately reflected in the budget. In view of the future, this budget will certainly not be sustainable, as the essence of it is not to take a critical look at how to cut public expenditure. Given that our population is ageing and that the proportion of people of working age is becoming smaller, we obviously cannot go on with this cost structure. The current party cannot continue, perhaps only a favourable external environment will contribute to this, because we currently have economic growth, but the situation is worrying in the longer term. The next point I will add to this is the result of the reduction in the European Union's Structural Funds contributions in the coming years. The National Audit Office has also just come before us and pointed out that such problems are growing before us. At the same time, ministries are planning to continue these same expenditures. This budget also sweeps the coalition with dubious solutions, unexpectedly lost money and then found money again. National defence was once punished for the absence of the sugar tax, and then something was found again. Now they're going after RMK's dividends. That's not good. Finally, last but not least: corruption-sensitive money, roofing money and overeating political parties are also included in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U210	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U211	Very honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Last week the 100th birthday events of the Republic of Finland culminated, offering us Estonians a series of exciting moments. The theme of the Finnish anniversary year, as well as the sign word, was 'University'. This image is multilayered, but necessary: all 5.5 million Finnish inhabitants are heroes and stronger together. Good friends! Allow me, from the good neighbours with whom we have much in common, to borrow and use this beautiful word in connection with the budget for the coming year. The word 'united' works well as the general denominator of the Estonian state budget and sums up its core. The budget that will soon come into force as a law contains a number of necessary coalition decisions that will allow us to function as a society and to move forward more harmoniously. This will decisively lead us to a northern value space where everyone is important and where the weaker and those who have had to go through more narrowly will be helped. For many years, Estonia has been plagued by the problem of labour poverty. Tens of thousands of people work full - time, but their wages do not guarantee normal living. You will never be proud of the fact that we stand out in Europe as a country where there is a very large gap between people's incomes. The new year's start-up tax reform will contribute uniformly to a more balanced development of society. The rise in the tax-free minimum brings about 50,000 workers out of relative poverty and improves hundreds of thousands of incomes and lives. Yeah, the wealthier have to bet a little bit more. But together, in a common home, when most do better, everyone does better. I cannot understand any of the crocodile tears of a man on a green branch because of the 36 euros that are lost or because of the cry of punishment for success. A more caring and fairer society also means safer and friendly Estonia, and poverty reduction promotes economic growth. All this should be our common interest, good friends. Stories of middle-class skinning, intimidation of people and half-sisters, so as not to say the lies of spreading, it is again inappropriate and embarrassing. In addition to reducing income-based stratification, regional disparities will also decrease next year. One of Estonia's central challenges is, of course, increasing the birth rate. This noble ambition is included in the budget and, hopefully, will produce results in a combination of various steps. The introduction of additional money into education, health care and, of course, national defence can also be considered as the cornerstones of the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are facing a 100-year anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. In 2018, a number of changes will take place that will make Estonia more united, prosperous and solidarity-building and will make a powerful contribution to the development of society. The Social Democrats stand for this kind of Estonia. Let us stick together more in the coming year and in the future, and let us be together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U212	More... However, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U213	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we must congratulate these people on the Centre Party, the People's Union and the Socialists, who have the same soul life and did not want this Estonia. But on the side of the door, with whom we have built this Estonia, you must say that you are pathetic. You guys are pathetic. You have made very fundamental changes in Estonian life that break things that we have built together. For my part, Mart Laar's government could also be mentioned, because there were liberals among them. It has been a collaboration between the Fatherland, liberals and moderates. There are no more moderates, no more Fatherland, no more Res Publica, but unfortunately on the other side of the table. What are the keywords in short? You have sold a balanced budget, self-employedly changed the rules and arranged for you to live on account of the past and the future, to spend more. You have introduced progressive income tax and you enjoy the speeches that talk about, essentially, screaming, yelling, whatever it takes away from you. You've never said this before, that a majority will win when taken away from a minority. The money received from the state is a real purpose in life, a source of thought and well-being, a state governed by plan economy. The sacred word of equality has been lifted up. Never have we set the goal of society in such a way that equality is the greatest value. We've still valued opportunities together. This is what has given dynamics, which is why we have built up different systems, including social security. Bet and get back more. If you don't bet, you get less. All of this will be set aside either with this budget or with drafts to be adopted and planned during this budget. After all, pensions are subject to a lot of tax. Together, we made a pension system, now the second and third pillars fall into the area of many who lose their income tax-free minimum. Once together, we set it up, now we take it away. The dividends are essentially double-taxed because, again, the taxpayer loses the tax-free minimum if he earns the supplement. We have never had the attitude that the government is leading the economy, it is reviving. Experts protest, companies run after employees, but we pour concrete. We run the economy, we have the chance. Concrete, as in the case of election areas, lands in Tallinn and no one discusses its profitability or its meaning. It's just a political decision, it needs to be covered financially. Not everything's fit in here, really. Some haste has failed, but basically the fact that we're a plan economy, we do is now the sacred slogan of the IRL. Defense. You'd think there's been a huge fight. Journalism, big headlines. Some men who don't even exist give interviews, go to studios and fight for $10 million. Are you kidding me? First of all, defence spending has been reduced as a percentage of GDP. Okay, the formula's the same, but the first thing they paid for their shit was taking 10 million off the defense. How powerfully we fought back! We did the interview, we did the interview, or they won't vote in favour. Hannes Hanso was very good, I commended him. I don't appreciate it any more, because he went along with the forgery, which was that if we had to, we had the $10 million in reserve, but let's not politicise national defence. You politicized yourself. Right here on the left are those who still tried to reduce defence costs in the 2013 budget. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U214	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U215	My frustration isn't personal about anyone. It's a disappointment about the past. My frustration is because of what is going to happen, as the budget should always be. It is a shame to mention any cost item if the country actually lives beyond its means. When he brags that he solved the healthcare funding. What did he solve? He wrote a schedule that the state budget, which is itself powerless, would pay for everything. We have just adopted a bill here, I have not bothered to come to Tallinn before the remote control, where the percentage of income tax is transferred to Tallinn. It's regional policy, because of some historical justice. No justice was asked when we transferred this rate of income tax to Tallinn, we increased the proportion that was going to the municipalities. During the crisis, we found that we crossed the line, we took it back. No, now it's automatically written with just going back. But who's gonna give it back? It'll live too much. For the first time, we are deliberately making a budget in a structural deficit, and the law requires the next government to compensate for this structural deficit surplus. Have you thought about what will happen in 2019 when you have sold hundreds of millions to your voters, mostly nonsense, and at the same time there is a death obligation? What happens to euro money? We can be smart about whether this euro money is going down or down, but the word is the same. What fades, or what disappears, there's not much difference. Whether this amount is 120 million or it is 220 million will depend on whether we are also looking at the tide of exploitation, which will hit the new government in the first few years. Actually, the picture is very sad. As far as I am concerned, this former party on the doorway could disperse, IRL, because as well as all the major hobbies of the budget, social policy, pension system, tax system and other things have been brought by their minister. And they haven't even beeped back. They're also proud. By the way, this morning I spoke to one of their ministers. He said, "Hey, I know what you're saying. I agree with you, but I have to tell you this story. ' The first light or, let's say, the first swallow, where I realize there may be something left. But it's a random person in government right now. He won't be elected next time, I know. He hasn't glowed. But this party could lock the doors. That's too bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U216	Priit Sibul, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. After the great leader, of course, it's hard to talk. Luckily, there are people who know everything. Jürgen could recall... You have the chance to run for head of the Reform Party. The fact that you consider yourself the leader of all the groups is amazing. I'm asking for more time right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U218	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U219	Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have been told, and I assume that we will also hear a number of other speeches about numbers. We hear both praise and chastity. This is the day of politics. However, if you ask whose face this budget is, the answer is simple: it is the face of our people. The face of these people's joys, but also, of course, their troubles. I will stop in my speech on three issues: reform of the tax-free minimum, defence and security, and family and education. In the budgetary talks in recent years, I have consistently shared concerns about the increase in social and health expenditure, regardless of whether the head of government is on the right or on the left. The trend is strongly one-way and clearly worrying. However, looking at recent economic indicators and tax receipts is a cause for rejoicing. At the same time, we know that this cannot last for a long time without structural changes. Simple solutions don't work and systems don't work like that anymore. Society and the economy are becoming increasingly complex, and this must also be taken into account when drawing up the budget. It must be borne in mind that we do not take the initiative of people and respect their freedoms as much as possible. We plan policies in such a way that people have a reason and a desire to choose work instead of support. The low incomes of too many people are precisely the concern that led my home party to find solutions to these people's problems in the 2015 elections. It is important that people do work rather than burden the social system of the country. The exemption system that will be in place in the coming year will motivate people to move more from the social system to the labour market. One additional argument is at the door to arrange your own life. The solution that will be in force for the coming year will affect 80% of the working people and leave more than EUR 150 million in their hands. This budget not only protects the working person, it protects everyone. The protection costs are the highest in terms of absolute values for the years of independence of 518 plus 10 million euros. In addition to 490 million allied infrastructure investments, €12 million will be added and the current costs of their adoption will be €6 million. In addition, the coalition agreement has agreed on investments for the purchase of ammunition for 10 million dollars and the same amount is still targeted at the reserve. I have no doubt that we can best make these instruments serve our security. When I talk about education, I always have a dilemma, because it is difficult for me to call the funds in this area 'expenditure'. I consider this area to be strategic, and I so very much want to call these instruments for clear investment. Next year, the LAs will receive 13.5 million to motivate kindergarten teachers' salaries. Teachers' salaries should rise to an average of EUR 1180 next year, with a minimum threshold of EUR 100, thus guaranteeing a minimum wage for teachers of EUR 1150. The remuneration of cultural workers with higher education will also be increased to the same level. In line with the principles of inclusive education, €9.5 million will be allocated additional resources to create learning opportunities for pupils with special needs in mainstream schools. In addition, EUR 16 million will be invested in modernising schools for pupils with special needs. Local governments receive 15 million to hire support specialists for 6 and special needs students for training. Money is important. But there are significant substantive changes in this area. I'll be honest when I say I have a little fear in addition to my expectations. There is a risk that some specific needs may be overlooked in the heat of these changes. I very much hope that local governments will feel the same enthusiasm and joy in finding solutions to children's problems alongside budget growth. These changes will, of course, be made in the hope that children will receive the best education given their abilities and interests. I wouldn't be myself if I didn't mention private schools. A solution has finally been found to the problems of private schools, which can be more or less satisfied. This is a step in the right direction, towards stability. I would like to thank the coalition partners and ministers, who actively thought along and sought the best possible solution of their goodwill, so that parents can be first responsible for the education of their children by virtue of the spirit of the Constitution. This stability in covering the operating costs of private schools and in setting reasonable tuition fees gives parents the opportunity to choose the right education for their children. I also hope that there will be a day when, in view of the financing model, it will no longer matter whether the schoolkeeper is the state, the non-profit organisation set up by parents, the foundation initiated by educational enthusiasts or any other schoolkeeper. Family choices are important. What could be more important to us than families and their welfare? I would remind you that, including from the summer, there will be additional support for families with three children, and the following year will be the first year if it is paid for the whole year. As I said at the beginning, there are places to praise and curse from every budget. We are based on the understanding that everything that can be decided and chosen by the citizen himself is reasonable to allow him to do so. The policy and budget must favour that, instead of support, it is attractive to choose work that education is an investment, not a cost, and that investments in national defence ensure the well-being and security of our families. The IRL supports the adoption of the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U220	Indeed, the political groups do not have any more requests to speak. It is. Mikhail Stalnukhin. You've already been there. As chairman of the committee? Right. I'm sorry! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U221	Mr President! A colleague was just late. Listening to one of these, I think, the one from before, reminded me of a story. Two men sit somewhere and put vodka. They get bored, and then one of them says, "Hey, let's go out on the street, find some guys and kick his ass." The other one says, well, let's go, but after a short thought, he asks, "Hey, what if he beats us up?" For us, for what? Now that's the motto that sounded like someone's got to be the smartest, someone's got to lead everybody. I am no longer surprised that the Reform Party has lost its leading position, because who would still be willing to listen to speeches like the one that was here today for ten and more years in a row. State budget. Once, at first reading, I said that it was a budget for solidarity for me. The main word is'solidarity', and there's another word in the shadow, 'dream'. I've already talked about it, and I'm talking about it right now. When I saw the coalition agreement, I couldn't believe that people had agreed on these things. I am sincerely grateful to the three coalition parties and to the leaders of those who found the strength to make these consensual decisions. What happens then? There are a lot of details in this budget that you should talk about for a long time, but I'm talking about three things. One of them is the tax reform. In some areas, such as my region, over 90% of the working people win. People who earn much more than EUR 2 000 cannot imagine the lives of those whose monthly income is 500, 600 or 700 euros, how they live in regions where this average is 700. They cannot imagine what a plus, a subsidy of EUR 64 per month granted to these people by the State. It's just fantastic. The second positive side: local authorities. We looked forward to seeing local authorities for more than seven years, so that the state would return this income base, resetting the income tax rate at least at the same level as it once was before the 2009 amendments to the crisis. Now it's gonna work, in three years, it's gonna work, and it's gonna be fantastic. We're all from some local government. We all want the standard of living to rise in our home town and village. It is based on the same revenue base and we have started this work with this draft, next year's budget. Third thing. You could say that 10% of the state budget is investment. The one who doesn't work, who doesn't build, who doesn't need concrete, who doesn't put asphalt, doesn't accomplish anything, but just collapses in a rather short time. It's very positive. This is also demonstrated by international assessments of our economy, our development and its prospects. It's a science fiction budget. The Group of the Estonian Centre Party supports this and hopes that next year it will be fulfilled exactly as we have planned. We call on everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U222	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U223	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to say in advance, to begin with, that the Conservative People's Party Group does not support this budget. There are several reasons, some are of a practical nature and some are of a world-view nature. I'm sure there's been so much talk about this already, it's all come to everyone's head, but we still have to go over it. The Estonian economy is now a good growth, not to say boom in time, which has led to very decent tax receipts. Even if we give our very large sums of money to the Latvians with our foolish tax policy, the increase in tax receipts is noticeable. Nevertheless, despite the boom, the government cannot or does not want to put together a budget to live within its means. I have never been, and our party has never been some kind of fiscal balance dogmatist. I really think that, in the case of budget over- or under-- or over- or under-expenditure, there is no need to lose the night's sleep yet, but it is a matter of principle. Basically, we see how the current overspending puts mines under the budget for the future. Over the next few years, when the economy is no longer growing at this rate and the euro subsidies are also disappearing, we will have a terrible headache in meeting the budget, which we will then have to do. Now, another very important reason why we do not support the current budget is precisely the same tax policy that the previous speaker said here that the current government has an irreconcilable, economicly damaging tax policy. Once again, money and alcohol excise has been said to be taken to Latvia, but this is only one tax line. We also have tolls, vehicle taxes, sugar taxes, other excise duties. All of this leads to a situation where the government says that we gave you more pay, but the thing that a person doesn't understand is that the same government has made tax policy decisions, which will result in this extra money being taken away from him when he goes to the grocery store. Estonia's inflation this year has been the largest in the last half decade and it is only growing. This lack of money, which my colleague Stalnukhin was talking about and which people are delighted about, does not really make them richer. It's cheating on people. Now, the third reason why we think this budget is not even suitable for a dog's handicap is that the budget is thickly wasted with stupid, unreasonable and high costs. There are also many small costs, which total large sums of money. This terrible line of NGOs and foundations, which are hidden in the budget lines of the ministries and which, compared with the roofing money in this hall, brings the taxpayer a higher cost, is cancer in our budget. We do not need this kind of civil society. We will be spending 35 million euros directly on Rail Baltic next year, which essentially means that we will be spending a terrible amount of money to spend even worse money in the future. The rental houses project, which may even have some good aspects, is planned badly and incorrectly, the economy and the market in a sewery, overheating of the construction sector. Exactly the same must be said about all the free things that the government promises and, of course, are not free, because everything that the government distributes has been taken away from us before. And this plan, laid out in connection with the full dose of public transport within the county, is the worst kind of populism ever seen. Its aim is not to improve mobility opportunities for any person, nor to make their lives cheaper, but only to be able to talk as much as possible about how the Centre Party gave people free transport in the run-up to the next elections. Understandably, budget priorities go back to the philosophy of tax policy. I fully agree with the admission: the budget is government's. It is the government's right to decide where the money is spent, because in the end, power means nothing but the possibility of deciding how the money is spent and what kind of people in which agencies it is carried out, that is, budgetary and human resources policy. So it is that we have a left-wing government in power, it is a left-wing budget, it is a tax and spending budget. It is a budget in which no one cares if it is possible to do something cheaper in any way, but everyone who is involved in this budget is interested in telling you as much as possible about how we gave you. I want to make a separate point of the idea that when I call it the left-wing budget of the left-wing government, it applies to all sections of the government, including this party, which at times still convinces itself in total cognitive dissonance, that they are somehow on the best side. No, it's not. We will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U224	Now all the political groups have expressed their opinion. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Reform Party Group, the lead committee rejected it, and this proposal is not to be voted on pursuant to § 120 (5) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The second amendment, from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, has been rejected by the commission and is not to be voted on, as was the previous one. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Commission itself, has taken full account of this. The fourth amendment from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party was not taken into account by the commission and it is not to be voted in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures. Amendment 5, from the Reform Party Group, the lead committee did not count, is not to be voted on because of the paragraph already mentioned. The sixth amendment is from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, the lead committee has rejected it and it is not to be voted in accordance with the paragraph already mentioned. The seventh amendment was tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. The eighth amendment was tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. The ninth amendment was tabled by the lead committee and fully taken into account. We have examined all the amendments to the State Budget Act, and now we have the procedure for adopting the budget. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft. Dear Riigikogu, we have reached the adoption of the state budget for next year. I will put to the vote before you the draft State Budget Act, 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic, 521. Please take a stand and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of adopting the state budget for the following year, with 41 members of the Riigikogu against. [[Let's hear it.]] Next year's State Budget Act has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U225	Let's go to the next item on item 11. Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's ringing the bell.]] I understand that the adoption of the state budget is very emotional, but we still have some very important points to go through. So, if I may ask your attention, the next item on the agenda is the second reading of draft 538 of the Riigikogu's decision on extending the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for training and defence capacity building in Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Anneli Oti, member of the National Defence Committee, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U226	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 6 November and the first reading took place on 21 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5 December at 5.15 p.m., but no proposals were received at that time. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting, including on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and, on the recommendation of the language editor, made a linguistic clarification of the draft text and approved (consensus) the text of the draft second reading as well as the explanatory memorandum. The specification is underlined in the text and supported by the author. The wording of the first paragraph of the bill was harmonised and eliminated by deleting the words 'in composition in Iraq' from the first point. It is also recalled that the most important objective of this foreign mission is the training of Iraqi security forces, which, according to the draft, will be given a mandate to up to five active troops. On the basis of the draft, the Defence Forces would continue to contribute to the fight against military medicine and improvised explosive devices, where Iraq has requested the support of NATO's allies. Estonia shall carry out its allied responsibilities with regard to its participation in the mission. At its meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 13 December. In addition, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U227	Good waitress, no questions for you. Thank you. Since the commission of directors' proposal is... However, we also need to give the political groups the opportunity to speak now. I was foresighted. No one wants a word. However, this is now the time for the final vote on draft 538 and we will start preparing it. Honourable Riigikogu, I propose to you a final vote on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for the training and defence capacity building of Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation', draft 538. Please take a stand and vote. 78 votes in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U228	The 12th item is the draft number 540 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state, as well as the second reading. Johannes Kert, Member of the National Defence Commission, will be the rapporteur. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U229	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This draft decision of the Riigikogu is the first time in the Riigikogu. The United Kingdom Joint Expeditionary Force, the abbreviation JEF (Joint Expeditionary Force) resulting from the English name, is a will coalition initiated, owned and managed by the United Kingdom and with membership of other countries. This means that JEF will be made up by the States associated with the Coalition of Wills to determine the military forces that are in constant readiness, which form a unitary army of all types of troops that are uniformly managed. After Estonia, JEF has joined the Netherlands, Latvia, Lithuania, Norway and Denmark, and later Finland and Sweden. The use of Joint Expeditory Force for a specific operation shall be decided by the United Kingdom in consultation with the other participating partner countries. Each partner country shall determine its participation or non-participation in a sovereign manner. This draft decision confirms Estonia's readiness to contribute to the potential operation of Joint Expeditory Force in 2018 with up to 20 active troops. The costs of participating in the operation shall be borne by the budget of the Ministry of Defence's administration. The first reading of the draft act took place on 21 November. The deadline for tabling amendments was 5 December. No amendments were tabled. On a proposal from the language editor, the Commission made a linguistic amendment to the draft, making Militerm, in line with the military, security and defence policy term base, the word 'joining expeditionary forces', a minor starting letter of the capital letter, both in the title and in the text. The corresponding amendment is underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. The draft text and explanatory memorandum (consensus) were approved by the Commission at its meeting on 7 December. In addition, at the same session (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of our Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U230	Mikhail Stalnukhin will open the round of questions to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U231	Thank you, Mr President. Can we specify where this joint operation will take place next year and what its objectives are?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U232	Thank you for your question. We are not currently deciding on a specific operation, but we are deciding on the possibility of Estonia's participation in a UK-led operation. Today, we don't know what kind of operation we're going to have with this group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U233	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! The Conservative People's Party undoubtedly supports the use of the Defence Forces in the United Kingdom's Joint Expedition Army, because apparently no human in this Chamber has any doubt that it will strengthen our security and that it will be good for us. But it also includes two non-NATO countries, Finland and Sweden. Am I to understand that this gives us the opportunity to protect our very good friends and allies when the crisis arises and vice versa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U235	That's right. That's right. We are in a situation where there is a battle group of the UK battalion in Estonia, perhaps as a framework country for other participants, such as France or Denmark.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U236	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U237	Thank you. I would like you, Mr. Speaker, to explain more about the remote, so that it is also visible to the general public, what good is it for Estonia that we join another new expeditionary force. What is the benefit of this Estonia, an ordinary Estonian? Why do we need more of this? We already have a lot of allies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U238	Yeah, we got plenty of allies. However, they are the same allies who have joined the UK-led United Expedition Force. We are not actually looking for new allies at the moment, but simply going to one of the very rapid response capacities and thus probably achieving more rapid response forces.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U239	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U240	Thank you, Mr President. I have a very specific question. Let me get this straight: 'We do not know what war or military conflict this joint expedition is going to take part in, but we do know that this is definitely the kind of war or conflict that we have to take part in and send our people there. '?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U241	Thank you for your question. If I read briefly before the concept of a combined expeditionary force, it also states that each partner country decides its participation or non-participation in a sovereign way. So it doesn't happen that when the United Kingdom decides, we are automatically somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U242	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U243	Thank you. Thank you for that last answer. Would you be more specific? I understand that this covers this gap in Europe's defence capabilities, that we cannot react quickly enough. What now gives this combined expeditionary force a more rapid response than any other connection? How do you see in which case and why we might need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U244	We live in a relatively difficult area of security policy. On the one hand, we may need to have our friends, mainly Northern Europeans, with us quickly or in the Baltics. The same applies to the fact that if our friends need us, we need to be there. It's quite simple and understandable that if you want something, you have to offer something in return. Hurry up this time. This concept arose in 2016 and it was also the year our minister signed it. This was a decision taken in the light of the events in Ukraine and Syria, because in the new security situation something was needed that would be able to react more quickly than the other formations that had been dealt with earlier in NATO, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U245	Thank you, honored waitress. No further questions for you. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. I don't see that wish. I'm closing the negotiations. There were no amendments to the 540 draft, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Forces' 540. Please take a stand and vote. 70 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, and no one was against or impartial. Draft 540 of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic on the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the United Kingdom Expedition Army has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U246	13th item, Second reading of draft 541 of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo." I call Ain Lutsep, Member of the National Defence Commission, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U247	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, So, draft 541. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and approved (consensus) the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. No amendments were tabled, so the text at second reading is identical to the text at first reading of the draft. According to this draft decision of the Riigikogu, Estonia will continue to contribute with up to three members of the Defence Forces in Kosovo on an international peace-building mission led by NATO, KFOR, or the Kosovo Force. National Defence Committee s. a On the basis of the consensus decision of 7 December, I would ask you to support this draft in today's final vote. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U248	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you, dear waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There were no amendments to draft 541, so we can go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo', 541. Please take a stand and vote. There were 61 people voting in favour of the draft, there were no respondents or abstentions in this Chamber. The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on a peace-building mission in Kosovo, is adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U249	The 14th item is the second reading of draft 547 of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon." Mr Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the draft, a unit of up to 50 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces will continue with the Irish-Finnish battalion on the UNIFIL mission. The majority of Estonia's contingent is made up of a mechanized infantry team, along with a logistics element and staff officers, whose tasks include prevention, observation, patrolling, manning control posts and ensuring the security of UNTSO observation mission in the same area. Estonia's participation and visibility in the UN missions will enable the UN Security Council to become a non-permanent member for the period from 2020 to 2021. As I said in the first reading of the draft, the Finnish and Irish Defence Forces are very pleased with the professionalism of the Estonian Defence Forces. The procedure. No amendments were tabled to the draft, but one technical amendment was made by the National Defence Committee, replacing the draft with a point of the semicolon at the end of paragraph 1. The amendment is underlined in the text of the second reading of the draft. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and approved (consensus) the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. In addition, at the same session (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U251	Thank you very much for the waitress. Your report proved that there are no details in our work. There are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. No amendments have been tabled, as you have heard, so we can go to the final vote. Is the Riigikogu ready to vote? Thank you! I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon', 547. Please take a stand and vote. 61 delegates voted in favour of the draft, and no one was against or impartial. The extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U252	The 15th item is the second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria'. Mart Helme, vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U253	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was expected to take place on 21 November. No proposals were submitted within the deadline for amendments. No linguistic or other corrections were made either. The Commission discussed the draft for second reading on 7 December and approved it by consensus. On the basis of the draft, up to the end of the following year, the use of six members of the Defence Forces active in UN-led Peacekeeping Mission UNTSO (United Nations Truce Supervision Organization) in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria will be extended. As a member of the United Nations, Estonia contributes to peace there and actively participates in UN missions, which are in line with our foreign and security policy decisions to increase the visibility of our country in the United Nations, in order to contribute to becoming a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in the years 2020 to 2021. At its meeting on 7 December (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft and put the draft to the final vote and therefore adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U254	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, dear waitress. I'll open negotiations if I like. That's not what you want. There were no amendments to the draft 548, as you have heard, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! Since we have reached a relatively tight stage of voting, with your kind permission, I will give a little shorter, but still enough call for the men of the far corners to reach the hall. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' 548. Please take a stand and vote. 59 delegates voted in favour of the draft, and no one was against or impartial. The extension of the term for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State on a post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria, has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U255	16th item, Second reading of the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the implementation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations'. Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, please waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft was also held on 21 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 5 December at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and approved (consensus) the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The draft under discussion is based on § 34 (4) of the National Defence Act, according to which the Riigikogu, by decision, sets a limit for the number of active troops each year, the number of active troops that may be involved in a military operation conducted for the purpose of maintaining or restoring peace and security, under the terms of Chapter VI or VII of the Charter of the United Nations, under the responsibility of NATO or of a Member State, the European Union or the United Nations, or any other international military operation in accordance with generally accepted principles and standards of international law, to which contributions are made for the first time. The emphasis is on the first wager here. Further use of the Defence Forces in the same operation, if necessary, is decided in general terms on the basis of § 34 (1) of the National Defence Act already mentioned, i.e. the Riigikogu gives a further mandate, as usual. At its meeting on 7 December (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading be stopped and that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U257	You have questions too. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U258	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Dear waitress, This is the same mission that we've been doing here in the past years and the blanco bill mission, where there's no real mission behind it. I have a question: have we ever actually sent these 50 men somewhere in the past years, or are they just waiting for us? If they're on hold like this, why do they have to wait for the third year in a row? Wouldn't it be wise to come to this hall when there's a specific mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U259	Thank you! Yeah, we've been through this before, that's right. For no reason, because this mandate is absolutely necessary for us to have a rapid preparedness capability. The Minister of Defence is proposing to the government, this possible mission will be introduced to the National Defence Commission, and I repeat the words 'potential mission', so that we do not have to spend as much time on normal procedures as we normally do, and we can react as quickly as possible if necessary. No, these 50 men, i.e. up to one group, have not been used. I really hope I don't have to. But the key here is readiness, that's crucial. We have examples from Estonia's comparatively recent history where we and France quickly joined the mission of the Central African Republic. There are also such lessons that we should be ready as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U260	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U261	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Is there a list behind the words 'other military operation' that can be used? Why is the first mention mentioned here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U262	Thank you. It is a readiness mandate, i.e. if we should go to NATO, a NATO Member State, a Member of the European Union or a United Nations mission, we could react as quickly as possible, as stated in the answer to the previous question. After this mission is extended, it will come to the Riigikogu in the normal way and will deal with these matters as we are currently handling other mandates.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U263	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U264	Thank you. We have heard here in recent weeks a totally embarrassing and ridiculous talk about how the Estonian state is unable to find a seller who would sell us ammunition for 10 million dollars in one year. This is our ability to react when shopping. Now we want, however, the Estonian state would have the capacity to send 50 men out on a mission that we do not know where it is, where it comes from or who is there. It must run so quickly that the Riigikogu cannot even give its approval. Maybe it'll have to go faster than in two weeks. I didn't remember the Central African Republic going so fast either. I still don't understand why we have to have a blankex on any mission in case someone snaps. It's like we're in some whistling dog's position. Why is there no need to demand this mandate when there is a real, concrete mission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U265	In fact, this question, where a whole bunch of opinions were put together, does not directly concern this mandate. This is not what we discussed in our committee. However, I am happy to say again that there is no whistling. It is a sovereign political decision by our institutions and our country whether and with whom we are going on a mission. Let me simply repeat this: this is necessary so that we can react quickly if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U266	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U267	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Was there a debate in the Committee on National Defence on this issue, and was there any interest in what is currently in this Chamber, or is it more of a'show' issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U268	At the time, 21 November, the National Defence Committee dealt with a number of draft renewals of mandates. Every year these issues have been discussed and, if the members of the National Defence Committee have had questions, they have been answered and explained. It really seems to me that the part of the hall in this conversation is more like an external audience, not to answer substantive questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U269	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U270	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr President of the Commission. You were not in the Commission at the time of the first debate on this draft. At the time, I put forward the same argument in principle in the Commission as Mr Helme today. That was debated in the committee. At the time, Mr Seeder was not a Member of the Commission either. So there is no point in putting any feelings into the truth here, it was in the debate in the Commission. At the time, it ended with him coming to the hall and getting confirmation here, just as he probably will this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U271	Thank you very much, dear waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U272	It wasn't a question, I have nothing to answer here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U273	This was essentially the beginning of negotiations. Any other wish to negotiate? That's not what you want. No amendments were tabled to the draft 539, so we can go to the final vote. I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the first contribution to it by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or its Member State, the European Union or other international military operation led by the United Nations' draft 539. Please take a stand and vote. 51 delegates voted in favour of the draft, 6 against and no abstentions. Draft 539 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U274	The 17th item is the second reading of the draft EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission. I call Hannes Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U275	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, once again! The draft, which is in front of us, will allow up to six active members of the Estonian Defence Forces to continue to contribute to the military mission of EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia in 2018 as well. The abbreviation is EU Naval Force Mediterranean. The objective of this European Union military mission is to prevent trafficking in human beings in the Central Mediterranean Sea, between the territorial sea of Italy and Malta and the territorial waters of Libya. The first reading of this draft took place in the Riigikogu on 21 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline for tabling amendments, including 5 December at 5.15 p.m. At its meeting on 7 December (consensus), the National Defence Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu to terminate the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put it to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U276	You have questions too. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U277	Thank you. EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia aims to prevent human trafficking in the Mediterranean Sea. Unfortunately, we see that the mission actually contributes to human trafficking by bringing people from the African coast to Europe by thousands or tens of thousands. Where is this obstruction of human trafficking?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U278	Thank you. We will certainly not be able to agree on this issue. I think that without this mission, there would be enormous tragic events in the Mediterranean, where there are already so many accidents, because they would simply have happened even more. This is a mission which, for humanitarian reasons, is absolutely necessary. The mandate, which has now been somewhat enlarged compared to what it was at the beginning, is also stronger. An agreement has also been reached on some of the control forces in Libya's territory to prevent boat refugees from moving. I think this is a very necessary mission. Tens of thousands of people drowning on the sea, I certainly wouldn't want to go down and I believe the whole civilized world wouldn't either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U279	Henn Põllamaas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U280	Thank you. After all, this obstruction is essentially the provision of logistics services to human smugglers. I also ask: how does this mission prevent human trafficking, smuggling and illegal immigration into Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U281	Thank you! Obstacles by the fact that... This area itself is 1.8 million square kilometres and there are four ships, now Libya itself is also the base, and the 25 Member States that are participating in this operation, with a total of 1400 people, are increasingly controlling this vast area and are working to stop putting people in a position where they should ask for help at sea. Their progress in Europe must be avoided. As I said, Libya has become a partner, there is a party that can be dealt with. I think this is a very necessary mission, which began in response to the huge human rush that was heading towards Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U282	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you right now. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. That's not what you want. No amendments were tabled to the draft 545, so we can go to the final vote. I vote on the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia' draft 545. Please take a stand and vote. 50 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, four against, no abstentions. Draft 545 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U283	The 18th item is the second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. Mr. Ants Laaneots, member of the National Defence Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U284	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft under discussion took place on 21 November. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5 December at 5.15 p.m.; however, no amendments were tabled at that time. The text at second reading is therefore identical to the text at first reading. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and approved (consensus) the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. To remind you. The NATO Response Force, or NRF, is a response force of 40,000 troops and has an additional 48 hours of readiness for a rapid reaction force of 5,000 members of the Defence Forces, or Very High Readiness Joint Task Force. Both are also an important tool for the rapid launch of NATO's collective self-defence operations, should this be necessary. Thus, participation in the NRF is also directly related to Estonia's security. As you yourself understand, Estonia's contribution to the NRF is a company strengthened by 200 active troops or support elements, special forces and staff officers. On the basis of the above, the National Defence Committee made the following consensual procedural decisions at its meeting on 7 December: to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu and to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U285	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thank you, dear waitress. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. There were no amendments to the 542 bill, so we can go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation', 542. Please take a stand and vote. 54 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, no votes against, no abstentions. Draft 542 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U286	The 19th item is the second reading of the draft 544 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in the performance of the international military operation of the Estonian state. Ants Laaneots, member of the National Defence Commission, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U287	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 6 November. We completed our first reading on 21 November. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 5 December at 5.15 p.m. The Committee on National Defence agreed with the linguistic recommendation made by the language editor, and I will not mention the linguistic clarification of the text of the five draft texts, one laughed here, which has already been underlined. It was supported by the drafter. The wording of the second paragraph of the draft text was linguistically aligned with the title and the first point and harmonised by adding the word'military' to the second point of the draft. On the basis of the draft, up to 10 Estonian Defence Forces would continue to participate in the international military operation Inherent Resolve, led by the US against the ISIS. The military operation was launched on 15 June 2014. I would remind you that Estonia will participate in this foreign mission on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu in August 2016, when the six-member training team in the province of Anbar began its service in the composition of the Danish contingent. Their main task was to train Iraqi security forces. In addition, as of September 2016, one of the Estonian senior officers in Baghdad will serve in a multinational military-strategic team led by the USA, which advises Iraqi ministries and security forces. The Estonian active troops, however, do not participate in the activities that take place within the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve on the territory of Syria, I mean military operations. Procedural decisions. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading, including at its meeting on 7 December, and approved (consensus) the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At its above-mentioned meeting, the National Defence Committee (including by consensus) decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading of the draft and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U288	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want either. No amendments were tabled to the draft 544. Let's go to the final vote. I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international military operation of the Estonian state in the execution of its international obligations Inherent Resolve', as submitted by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 53 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, no one opposed, no abstentions. Draft 544 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U289	20th item, Extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, 2nd reading of 546. Member of the National Defence Commission, Marianne Mikko, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U290	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft under discussion concerns two missions. According to point 1 of the draft, the time limit for the use of up to 10 active members of the Estonian Defence Forces on the European Union Training Mission EUTM Mali is extended. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to ten active members of the Estonian Defence Forces in the UN peacekeeping mission MINUSMA is extended in Mali. As a country of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's common security and defence policy. Mali's mission is one of the most important missions of the European Union involving military personnel from 23 Member States. As a UN country, Estonia contributes to peace in the crisis area. In addition, participation in UN missions enhances Estonia's visibility in the UN and is a prerequisite for Estonia's efforts to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council in the years 2020 to 2021. The first reading of this draft was completed on 21 November. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline for the submission of amendments, including 5 December at quarter to six. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and approved (consensus) the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At its meeting on 7 December, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, including by 13 December. In addition, the National Defence Committee (consensus) decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to a final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U291	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much, dear waitress. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. That's not what you want. There were no amendments to draft 546, so we will start the voting procedure. I am voting on the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic to extend the term for the use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and in the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali, draft 546. Please take a stand and vote. 50 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, no votes against and no abstentions. Draft 546 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U292	The 21st item is the second reading of the draft 543 of the Riigikogu's decision to extend the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. Marianne Mikko, member of the National Defence Commission, please be a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was submitted by the Government of the Republic on 6 November. The first reading was completed on 21 November. No amendments to the draft were received by the deadline for submitting amendments, including 5 December at 5.15 p.m. The active troops of the Defence Forces would continue to contribute to the NATO training and advisory mission on the basis of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, the most important aim of which is to teach the Afghan national security forces. To this end, the draft mandates up to six active troops. Estonia contributes with its four-member demining team to the North Afghanistan region under the leadership of the Framework State Germany. By participating in the mission, Estonia shall fulfil its allied responsibilities arising from its NATO membership. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft at its meeting on 7 December, before submitting it to second reading, and approved (consensus) the text of the draft at second reading and the explanatory memorandum. At its above-mentioned meeting, the National Defence Committee (again by consensus) decided to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading and, on the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, to put the draft to the final vote and adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U294	The question to the waitress is asked by Arno Sild.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U295	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd have a guess or a question. It is logical, of course, that we are helping to protect peace everywhere, to secure peace, but Afghanistan is, in my opinion, an exception. Recently, as we know, there has been a huge increase in the production, cultivation and distribution of narcotic drugs in Afghanistan. What if, in gratitude for helping them to maintain their order there, they send more drugs to our young people? Is that mutual gratitude? What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U296	As a representative of the National Defence Commission here before you, I do not express my personal opinion. And we did not discuss this issue in this form in the Committee on National Defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U297	No more questions for you. Thank you. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. No amendments were tabled to draft 543. So let's start the voting procedure. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the training and advisory mission in Afghanistan'. Please take a stand and vote. 48 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, one against, no abstentions. Draft 543 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U298	Today's last item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Land Cadastral Act, the Land Underground Act and the Spatial Data Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Kalle Palling, to make a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U299	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on the Environment on Monday, 4 December. Deputy Chancellor Margit Martinson of the Ministry of the Environment was invited, Tambet Tiits, Director General of the Land Administration, Egle Toomjõe of the Legal Department of the Land Administration, Marko Arula, Director of the Information Technology Centre of the Ministry of the Environment, and Tanel Järvet, Head of Iris Info OÜ. During the period between the first and second reading of this draft, the draft has been dealt with by the Commission once, as I have already mentioned, and there have been two amendments to it. The Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today and to propose that the second reading be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-13_U300	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, dear waitress. I'll open negotiations if you like. As you have heard, two amendments were tabled to draft 533. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment was also tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the decision of the commission is the same: take full account. The proposed amendments to draft 533 have thus been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 533. The second reading has been completed and today's working day in this large hall has also ended. See you tomorrow at 10:00! Closure of the sitting at 6.09 p.m.
