ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? We will begin the 3rd working week Thursday session of the V plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U2	Mr President! On behalf of the seven members of the Free Party, and I believe Artur has a meaning to us, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. The question is motivated by the fact that, as we understand it, at the end of this month, there is still a rush to sign an agreement between Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania on the development of Rail Baltic. It is not clear to us what all this will bring to our state budget in the coming years, so we would like answers from the Minister of Finance as soon as possible. What are the options if EU funding does not materialise as expected? What are the operating costs? There are a lot of speculations on this subject, but what are the real financial risks to Estonia, to put it mildly, is somewhat unclear. At this point, I also welcome the EKRE Group, which yesterday put forward a similar emphasis on the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. In fact, it would be very reasonable for us to be answered here in the Riigikogu before the agreement is signed. If that is not possible, we expect answers as soon as possible in the coming month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U3	Thank you. There are no more requests for speaking. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing. Ladies and gentlemen, specification of the agenda. In the debate on today's fourth item, the draft of the Riigikogu's resolution 'Constitution of the Parliament's Problem Committee for the resolution of the population crisis' presented by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union's draft 367 will be presented at first reading by Anneli Ott, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U4	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Allow me to present the procedure for dealing with this item. First there is a presentation by the representative of the commission, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur one oral question, then the amendments will be examined. Since then, there are negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. On behalf of the commission, I would now like to ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, to sit as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U5	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu, I am very pleased to present to you draft decision No 369. This is driven by the very major political changes that took place in the Republic of Estonia in the late autumn of last year, which made it necessary to review the compositions of the external delegations formed by our Parliament. On 16 January, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed at its meeting the proposals made by the political groups and our committees to change the composition of the delegation of the Baltic Assembly. Following a very short consensual debate, the Commission decided unanimously to take the following decisions: First, to exclude Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Head of Delegation, and to appoint Mr Aadu Black as new Head of Delegation. Secondly, appoint Johannes Kert as Deputy Head of Delegation. Third, exclude Toomas Kivimägi, Mikhail Korb and Heljo Pikhof from the delegation. Fourthly, to appoint Uno Kaskpeit, Helmen Kütt and Erki Savisaar as members of the delegation. The deadline for amendments was also suggested, on 19 January at 5.15 p.m. No amendments were received at that time. The Commission also took procedural decisions. The draft was found to be on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 26 January. A unanimous decision was also taken to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision. The chairman of the committee was appointed to present the draft in this large Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U6	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U7	Thank you, honourable waitress, for a very thorough and substantive report. In your analysis of why this bill is needed, you mentioned the major changes in the Republic of Estonia last autumn. Please tell me how these changes led to the release of Mr Pikhof from this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U8	Thank you for a very good question. The delegation of the Baltic Assembly carries out very important tasks in parliamentary external relations, so its formation is actually quite difficult, because the good political will of both the political groups and the Riigikogu committees is necessary. We therefore had a lively political discussion and, as a result of very long discussions, information on the composition of delegations was received from the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs. The Commission reviewed the proposals that had come from other committees, as well as from the political groups, and found that decisions had apparently been taken as a result of a substantive debate, so it supported them. The Committee on Foreign Affairs did not discuss any more on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U9	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U10	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have a very specific question. You began your speech by saying that you are very pleased to present this bill. I will now ask you for clarification, which you are very pleased about. Is it about political changes last autumn, or about changing the composition of the delegation, or both?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U11	Good Helir! I am always pleased to present the drafts tabled by one of the most important committees in the Riigikogu, the Committee on Foreign Affairs. External communication is very important. And undoubtedly, the work of the Baltic Assembly in strengthening Baltic cooperation, such as you, Helir, yourself, has experienced from your immediate parliamentary diplomacy, is extremely important. With all this pleasure, I am not very pleased that you must now surrender your seat to a good colleague, but I am sure that the Committee on Foreign Affairs recognises your current role as leader.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U12	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Changes in the composition of delegations are perfectly understandable because some people have also left the Riigikogu and the composition of the coalition has changed. Understood. However, at the moment, a more detailed explanation is needed as to why the chairman of the delegation will change if he does not leave the Riigikogu or the coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U14	Thank you, good Andres! You were in that meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As you know, it is not within the competence of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to consider who is a better candidate for one position or another at coalition or opposition level. The role of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to turn to the political groups in the formation of the Baltic Assembly or in the change of the composition of the delegation to the respective committees, whose members constitute our delegation, and to make their own decisions on the basis of these proposals. The question you asked was not discussed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in its hearing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U15	Siim Kisler, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U16	Thank you. Good waitress! What is the impact of this decision on Baltic cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U17	I think this question, Siim, is extremely important. All the decisions we make together are aimed at ensuring that our parliamentary diplomacy and cooperation in this case, too, with our good colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania, can best achieve the objectives we have set. This year the activities of the Baltic Assembly are particularly important. This is what we actually touched on at the committee meeting, in view of the fact that this year is the year of Estonia's presidency in the Baltic Assembly. I have no doubt that a composition as experienced as this delegation, which is currently in the process of forming or changing here, can do its tasks very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! What do you think it would look like if a rural person who feels very well was replaced from the chairman of the committee? Could this mean that rural life, as such, is no longer as prioritised in parliamentary cooperation as it was so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U20	Thank you, good questioner! The answer to this question would require my personal discussion on this subject. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, this issue was not raised in this way, nor was there a debate on it. I can only say what I said in my previous reply: I think the colleagues we see here in the delegation are all professional and are doing their job well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U21	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U22	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I remember that when I was president of the delegation to the Baltic Assembly for four years, we worked to improve the composition of the delegation, to correct it, to make it more effective, but also more solidarity. There is currently only one member of the Reform Party in this delegation, although it could be proportionate, i.e. two members from each group. For what reason, for example, has Toomas Kivimägi been replaced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U23	Thank you, good Wave! Really, here I can extend a few words to the first part of your question. I, too, have been very familiar with the question of how to make the work of the Baltic Assembly more effective in the last 14 years, when I have been involved with the Committee on Foreign Affairs at one time or another. I must say that during your delegation's leadership too, very big decisions were made to improve cooperation. Estonia has always been the leader of proposals, thoughts and reforms in cooperation with the Baltic Assembly. In many ways, as a result of what has been done in your time, we have now come to the point that the work of the Baltic Assembly focuses primarily on committees. I would like to point out that those of us who represent the Riigikogu in one of the committees of the Baltic Assembly are members of our respective committees at the same time. The decision you asked about was made by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Again, this proposal came to us, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where there was also a debate on the establishment of a delegation. Everyone agreed, including reform party members, so the decision was consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U24	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thanks to the waitress! Is there a wish to open negotiations on behalf of the political groups? No, it's not. Then I'll close the negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 369. Let's start preparing the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation to the Interparliamentary Assembly of the Republic of Estonia, the Republic of Lithuania and the Republic of Latvia' of the Riigikogu decision 369. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one opposed, with 6 abstentions. Draft 369 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U25	Today's second item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The procedure for dealing with this item is the same as the previous one. First there is a presentation by the representative of the leading committee, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur one oral question. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. After the negotiations, we will examine the amendments and then we will have a final vote. On behalf of the commission, I would like to ask Keit Pentus-Rosimannud to present the vice-chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U26	Highly honored Vice Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a draft decision 370, the content of which is the amendment of the Estonian delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The need for this draft was due to the fact that two of our previous colleagues, Kadri Simson and Sven Mikser, who were also members of the delegation, became members of the government. We need to appoint new members of the delegation to replace them. The proposal put forward in the draft proposal, which follows from the proposals of the political groups, is to appoint Mr Kerstin-Oudekki Loone as a member of the delegation and Mr Hannes Hanso as an alternate member. Sven Mikser used to be an alternate. It is also proposed that Marko Mihkelson be appointed Head of Delegation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented a draft on 16 January. No proposals were received within the deadline for amendments. Our proposal is to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision. At its meeting, the Commission decided that the draft would be presented in the Chamber by the Vice-President of the Commission. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U27	Any questions for the waitress? Doesn't look like it. Thanks to the waitress! Do the political groups want to open negotiations? No, it's not. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The commission of directors' proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 370 and we will begin the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation' of the Estonian delegation' of the Riigikogu decision presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs 370. Please take a stand and vote. There were 67 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, there was no one against it, there were two unbiased members of the Riigikogu. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U28	Today's third item is the first reading of draft 371 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The procedure for dealing with this item is the same as the previous two. First there is a presentation by the representative of the leading committee, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur one oral question. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. After the negotiations, we will examine the amendments and then we will have a final vote. I would like to ask Mr Marko Šorini, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for a presentation on behalf of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U29	Honourable Vice President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I will report to you a draft decision on the amendment of the Estonian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Former member of the delegation, Mailis Reps, headed for the Ministry of Education and Science. The Committee on Foreign Affairs was asked to appoint Andrei Novikov as a member of the Estonian delegation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also examined the procedure and decided to put the draft on the agenda on 26 January. No amendments were proposed. The committee decided that the report would be made by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U30	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks to the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments were tabled to the draft. The commission of directors' proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 371 and we will begin the preparation of the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision 'amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', draft 371. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, there were no respondents, 1 was impartial. Bill 371 has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U31	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the 'Establishment of the State Assembly Problem Committee for the resolution of the population crisis' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Siret Kotka, Member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair on behalf of the speaker!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U32	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The main guarantor of sustainability in one country is its people. It is the depopulation that is the biggest problem in our country, both in recent history and in the near future. After the restoration of independence, unfortunately, Estonia's population has steadily decreased and its main causes are low birth rates and large emigration. A low birth rate has already become a normal situation in our country. However, this should not be the case. During the period of re-independence, the number of births in Estonia has fallen dramatically. Only in 2010 were we able to go a little bit of a plus. When 22304 children were born in 1990, the number of births in the following years has steadily decreased. Only 13,907 children were born in 2015. The problem is both the reduction of births and the difference in natural age, i.e. the number of births and deaths, which is negative in Estonia. Birth is an important issue in society, but comes back to the personal decision of each individual, which must undoubtedly be respected. At the same time, it is possible for the country to create an environment where people have better opportunities to focus on family growth. Just a few days ago, the issue of the pay gap was raised. Many acknowledged that women's contributions to work were less financially valued because of their nature, but also because of the expectations of society, a carer and a family person. He is the one who stays at home when the child is sick or who has to leave work early when the family needs to be cared for. Today, when women want to achieve the best possible education and careers, thinking about children is inevitably in the background. Here, our country needs to think about ways to improve the parental benefit and holiday system. Of course, this means creating the best possible opportunities for both mothers and fathers. Another important factor directly affecting the decline in population is emigration. Emigration has become a serious problem since Estonia regained independence. Estonian population scientists have indicated that the number of leavers is estimated to be 100,000 to 130000 people. Many of them have left for economic reasons, but there are other factors that need to be addressed seriously in order to stop emigration. Our aim must be to motivate people who have left Estonia to return to their homeland. The idea of leaving must also offer people who are concerned with better ways of linking their future with Estonia. In view of all of this and of the general objective of the government action programme, we want to set up a committee to deal with the population crisis. The Estonian people are the key to the state's survival. Therefore, in the context of the decline in population, we are actually talking about the sustainability of the country. In order to maintain a strong Estonian state, we need a healthy, viable and growing population. True, only recently, Statistics Estonia rejoiced with the news that as of January 1, 2017, the population of Estonia was 1850 more than at the same time last year. Therefore, some of you today may ask whether it is necessary to set up a Commission now. I will explain that unfortunately, 15,300 people died in our country last year, while we could only rejoice over the new weatherman at 13,900 times. So natural growth is still negative. On the other hand, when we talk about immigration and emigration, we have to admit that statistics may not show life in all of its real colors. Immigration is easier to document than emigration. Unfortunately, therefore, it must be assumed that emigration may be higher than the statistics show. So the time has come for the problems of the population to be addressed. Actually, I should have dealt with it yesterday. Unfortunately, I don't think we've dealt with enough. If we do not want to wait for a single invisible hand to make the necessary adjustments in our lives so that we remain a country and a nation, we must act now. We need to address this issue very thoroughly and discuss all possible ways to improve the situation. We are now discussing the details of pension reform, but in the context of the constant decline and ageing of the population, we also need to ask how many hands there are who support not only our pension system, but the economy as a whole. Therefore, let us form this committee, let us think together and try to preserve Estonia's population and make our population grow again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U33	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The problem certainly exists, I think no one in Estonian society denies it. However, after reading the draft explanatory memorandum and also the draft itself and listening to you now, I ask what this committee would still do. We have very strong social scientists working on the subject in expert groups, they have proposed various options, solutions, analyses. What would this committee do anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U35	Thank you for your question. The question is very legitimate. Yes, several analyses have been carried out in the Republic of Estonia. In my opinion, the problem is that these analyses have not been sufficiently integrated with the aim of putting them all together and of looking at the results together. It is not intended how they could be used to produce laws that would contribute to increasing Estonia's population. Analysis and research have been carried out because of studies, but often their results have not reached the Heads of State. This committee would gather good ideas and try to formalise them into laws so that it would benefit the Estonian population.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U36	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U37	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You referred in your speech to a study on the role of women in raising children. It's a shame no detective asked me about this, maybe it would have affected some of the research results. But that's the kind of thing I want to ask. Will you take the lead in this committee, and if you start leading this committee, how many children could be born more in Estonia during the work of this committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U38	Thank you, good questioner! Who will be the chairman of the committee shall be decided by the composition of the committee. The Commission shall select. To me, the Centre Party Group has proposed to be a member of this committee, and if my candidacy is set up as chairman of the committee, I will stand as a candidate. As for how many more children will be born, I think that if we can stop the decrease in the number of births and lead to a natural growth plus, as was the case in 2010, when the natural growth was +35, then it is already a victory. We're going to have a big job, but we have to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U39	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U40	Thank you. This week, the State Reform Problem Committee was set up and the debate revealed that the annual budgets of the two committees are in the order of EUR 200000. I had a heart attack because we know that we are short of EUR 150,000 to provide psychological advice to victims of close relationship violence. This money would be needed to support people in concrete terms. Now we are here to discuss the problem committee, which will support population growth, with the aim of bringing the results of the survey to the Heads of State. I am really sorry to hear that, and I am asking you how much the annual budget of this Committee on Problems is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U41	Thank you. I expressed myself very correctly and said that we are taking these results to the Heads of State and we are also making laws. However, as far as this Commission's budget is concerned, I am unfortunately indebted to the answer here. Maybe another waitress can answer, maybe it was discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U42	Thank you. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U43	Thank you. Good waitress! I'm glad to hear you've read the abscess. But the more advanced would certainly not be saying that the results of the study will be put together by a committee that will then take them to the Heads of State. Such data is always available to the heads of state as they have been compiled. And the studies take account of each other's results all the time, that's what academic practice is. If you think about the huge amount of money and the empty story, wouldn't it be more appropriate to give training to those who do not know the basis of the demography and who think that the results of the studies are separate from each other? Perhaps we would make one small amendment together and not set up another problem committee at the expense of the taxpayer for people without schoolwork?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U44	Thank you, good Jürgen Ligi! Since you asked this question as a member of the Reform Party Group, I assume that I can respond to you in this way, that if the Reform Party was the leading party in the government, then his handwriting was very clear. In fact, scientists were not sufficiently involved or asked for their opinions. Studies were often carried out, but they didn't get anywhere. The studies were carried out perhaps because of the studies, in fact they were not taken into account. Now time has changed. The country must be governed and managed in such a way that researchers and all stakeholders, in fact, are taken into account. And that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U45	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U46	Thank you. Dear waitress, you referred to demographers. Demographers have indicated, among other things, that in the mid - 2000's, the increase in crops was the result of the birth of a generation that had been delayed before. This was not linked to policy measures. How do you intend to convince demographers that political measures will increase the population? What measures do you think are most effective?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U47	Thank you for a good question. We don't need to make anything clear to the population scientists in that sense. Population scientists have a very clear opinion and must be accepted and respected. As far as population growth is concerned, there is a very clear trend. In fact, giving birth is postponed because they want to get a good education, a career, and a good salary. And in every society, when unemployment increases, you can immediately see how economic stagnation also affects natural growth. They're connected. It is up to us as politicians to create an environment where people feel good and where they want to build a home, a family. People must want to live in Estonia and increase their population.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U48	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, these problems are, in fact, much broader. Young women have said that there are no suitable partners. Men, however, do not want to get involved at a young age. That way, the children will never be born. If I were to become a representative of the Socialists in this committee, I very much hope that we will also come to some drafts, but at the same time, with years of family policy, I would like to confirm that the opinions of scientists are very much taken into account. It cannot be said that scientists have done nothing. The studies have been taken into account and the measures have been implemented mainly when the Socats have been in government. It began in 2014 and has continued on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U50	Thank you. There was no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U51	Thank you. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question is how do you, as the likely chairman of the committee, see demographic processes in the world. In general, the world's population is growing, and it is in those countries where the standard of living is low. As a representative of your party, do you have some kind of measure in your back pocket that can make people get more children and raise families? After all, there are already some maternity benefits in Estonia, etc., which are not yet applied in more advanced countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U53	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, there is a tendency you have mentioned in the world. As regards parental benefit, this is a measure for which many European countries recognise Estonia. Many other countries do not have such a good system. I think it has made a very clear contribution to the fact that the population has not fallen so drastically if it had been reduced if there had been no parental benefit. At the same time, the question has arisen that parental benefit is not flexible enough. I think that the Commission should carry out its own assessment of how to make it more flexible. And I am pleased that this bill provides very clearly for a representative of the Commission to belong to each party represented in the Riigikogu. It is believed that the common interest of all groups is that the Estonian population should grow, and that good ideas and ideas will certainly be born there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U54	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U55	Hello, good Siret! I am very much a science believer, and sometimes science is also done for science, for art, and I am in favour of it. But I do not understand this at the moment: a Committee on Problems is being set up to take into account the scientific proposals for overcoming this crisis. This is about whether the government listens to scientists or even to polite and wise people. Rail Baltic is currently being discussed. Ernst & Young's figures are available, but the semi-criminal consultancy company AECOM will be heard. So, what's the point of doing science if the government doesn't listen to scientists anyway? And this committee is not capable of producing knowledge that is currently lacking. Does it not seem to you that, in this case, this Commission is simply pointless?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U56	Thank you, good Igor! I do not think this committee is pointless. I think this committee is creating the knowledge and laws that the Estonian state needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U57	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You repeatedly said that the purpose of setting up this committee is to bring the results of the studies to the members of the government. You said they hadn't been taken into account so far. It seems to me that this is, in fact, a very unfair claim, because when officials prepare drafts, all studies are always on the table. We see these studies, and we also have the corresponding references in the drafts, certainly also in the Social Affairs Committee. As far as our committee is concerned, we certainly cannot say that the studies have not been taken into account. Well, that was a bit overstretched. In addition, you indicated that the aim is to develop laws as well. Obviously, as the future Chairwoman of the Commission, you have also done your homework. What laws, then, should we reach in just two years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U59	I think that if we want to be effective and work, it is possible. What the laws will be, and what these thoughts and proposals will be exactly, will depend on the Members of the Commission. Once again: there will be six people from different political parties, and together we will definitely work out very good laws. As far as research is concerned, these results are such that this material is used which is suitable for individual Heads of State who are in office. I would like to say that we would not be discussing this issue here in the Riigikogu Chamber today if it were not for this problem. If our population were to grow and our natural lives weren't negative, we wouldn't be talking about it. This Commission does not need to be formed. Hence, something has not been done in these years. This is how we need to sit down, look at these things and take the direction that Estonia's population will grow in the next few years. It also requires the creation of laws and proposals to the Government of the Republic. That is the purpose of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U60	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, For some reason, we have focused today only on the question of a bizarre one, as if it were the only one affecting the population. Since I have been appointed as the representative of the Reform Party on the Commission, I am also interested to see whether the candidate for the chairman of the committee will also see our'second topic' in the work of this committee, namely the issue of extending life expectancy and increasing the number of healthy years of life. As an architect, for example, I am very interested in the impact of living environments, such as the lack of mobility of our children. These are things that cause premature death. Does the candidate for chairman have any plans to deal with this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U61	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U62	Thank you. Certainly this problem, which you have raised at the moment, is there, and we certainly need to discuss it with all the Members of the Commission and try to find a good solution. But I absolutely agree: they are all connected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U63	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U64	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! There are a lot of questions, but one is like this. Many young Estonian women choose an alien as their partner and young Estonian men remain dry. Should we look for a solution to this question? Young Estonian men could breed small Estonian children. What fate awaits them, especially in rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U65	Thank you for a good question. It is difficult for me to answer this question, but I recommend that all Estonian women choose Estonian men.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U66	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, The population crisis has been mentioned here today only in relation to the problems of the disease and the ageing population. Do you see the migration crisis being resolved as the work of this committee? How can we bring back the young laborers we are looking forward to instead of foreigners?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U67	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U68	Thank you. In my report, I noted that we need to think deeply about how we can motivate people and achieve that those who live in Estonia today want to leave here. Secondly, those who move outside should want to return to Estonia. This is undoubtedly the subject of this Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U69	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'll come back to the point. How does it feel to you, based on your personal experience, what is the main reason that families do not have as many children as they would like? I like it when people talk about what they've been through, what's going on in real life. You're running for chairman of this committee. What do you rely on in your belief that this Commission can really make a difference? There are different ways to change things, but why do you hope to achieve it in this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U71	Thank you. As I pointed out earlier, the reason why young women delay giving birth is above all that they want to acquire education, then make a career and achieve a solid income. Only after that will a family be considered. This model has clearly changed over time. The consequence is that very many women give birth to their first child at the age of 30 and often this means that one or two children are given birth. It's a reality, it's statistics. Our question is whether we can change this trend, and if we can, how. How can we achieve that women want to give birth earlier? This is undoubtedly a complex issue, including, for example, how to reduce the number of abortions. There are many questions, and they are all closely linked. With regard to my selection as Commission leader, once again: this is decided by the members of the Commission and the candidate can still be spoken about there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U72	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since it has been said here several times today that you are probably going to lead this committee, the Commission will probably decide that. But my question is that the low birth rate is a major problem in many European countries; Estonia is not the only one. In many countries, this has been solved by the arrival of immigrants, since at least their first and second generations have such a cultural background that families have more children. How do you see the state of affairs from this point of view in your Trouble Committee? Could you raise that subject there? Is this related to the topic of Estonia's birth rate or is it absolutely not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U74	Thank you. I think this issue will definitely go through the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U75	I'd pick up where Urve started. I mean, the population consists of two layers. The lower and clearer layer is biological specimens of the species Homo sapiens, which reproduce. The second layer consists of culture, language, religion, Christianity, Protestant ethics, etc. Biological reproduction doesn't make sense if there's no other aspect. Unfortunately, not much has been said about this other aspect, or culture. Self-consciousness, it is the protection of the Estonian language, protection against non-Estonian languages, etc. How do you intend to deal with these aspects? If you do not deal with them, you will not deal with the population problems either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U76	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U77	Thank you. As I have already pointed out, the Commission really needs to discuss quite a number of different issues. Once again, the Commission will be represented by all political groups. If Yoko Alender comes from the Reform Party, then you, Igor Gräzin, please convey this good idea to Yoko. Yoko will raise it in the Commission and we can discuss it together there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U78	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U79	Good manager! Good waitress! The Minister for Social Protection has discussed the need to reduce the availability of alcohol and thereby improve public health. Should we not think about restricting the availability of contraception, condoms, etc.? Or should we set some average woman's average number of children? We have NATO's mandatory percentage of defence expenditure: 2% of GDP. Perhaps we should set a strategic number in this area as well. What do you think of that? For example, two children per woman on average or 2.1 or 2.3?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U80	Thanks for the good idea. I am generally of the opinion that all such coercive measures, such as the withdrawal from the sale of contraception or anything else, are not what should be done. I think that our aim must be to shape a new way of thinking in society. It's very important. Secondly, such an environment should be created, support mechanisms that really contribute to population growth. Today, we have very much focused on the question of the problem. Yeah, it's negative, and of course we have to think about how it could become positive. But another major problem is emigration. And here is not a question of banning anything, but you will even understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a question of socio-economic aspects. This is why people leave Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U81	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In your answers, you stressed several times the positive impact of parental benefit: otherwise our birth rate would be even lower. So that in itself deserves your recognition. But you also mentioned that the parental benefit system must be made more flexible. Do you also have any specific ideas that need to be changed there? And have you heard of the idea that parental benefit could be extended? If so, do you not see the particular risk that the situation of potential mothers will become worse on the labour market if this system becomes so flexible that compensation can be extended to eight years, as some political power representatives have heard from time to time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U83	Thank you for a good question. Once again, the fact that parental benefits are paid is true. My good acquaintances, who live outside Estonia, also confirm this. But they also think that the Estonian state should think about how to make the system more flexible and more favourable to the mother and father raising the child. I can see clearly that there are very different aspects here that people who think politically have in mind. I think all these thoughts deserve to be put on the table and discussed. So you should think about what the real way is. My own view remains that when a lot of people say that the system is good, but rigid, it needs to be made a little more flexible. And now we need to find the right way to do it. I am not going to say specifically here today, which is my personal idea, because I think that the Commission should take its decisions by consensus. That would be the objective, in other words, really think about how things can be moved forward. After all, the population problem is important for all political parties. That is why we should get to the point that it is not the case that the opinion of the committee chairman alone is the one on which it is based and it is said that it is the right one. We should find a common part, and the Commission's aim is to find that common part.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U84	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U85	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Some of the names of the members of the future committee have already sounded in your presentation. But I did not see who these other members of the Commission were.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U86	Thank you. I don't have any committee members on paper. Some of the possible members of the Commission have presented themselves today as a supposed member of this Chamber. But I'm glad if the Free Party also appoints its own candidate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U87	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I was very pleased to hear you say, in response to Professor Gräzin's question, that this committee will also analyse the cultural environment and try to contribute to its development. That's my question. What do you think this committee could do precisely to create a favourable cultural environment? Do you expect to be able to add something to a professional culture, or do you mean a normistic approach? How do you imagine that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U89	Thank you. I think that, above all, we should bear in mind the cultural environment in terms of living. But that's my personal opinion. People need to feel good about themselves in this environment, that's the goal. Then they even want to live here. The Commission's aim is to get a real picture of the environment in which people live and to think about how we can make it better. It is true that culture has an important role to play in order for people to feel well. We have to see how to make things better than they are today. As a member of the Commission, I would be very clearly open to ideas. I think that no idea of population growth is too bad to be considered. All the ideas that come on the table are worth considering.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U90	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U91	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We have talked about birth rates, and also about emigration, less immigration. But there is another type of migration, it is internal migration, and we can see that internal migration is very vibrant in Estonia. But internal migration and migration at all means that people have to set up their lives elsewhere and, in this context, they are delaying the birth of children. Would the Commission also be planning to develop proposals for a government to do so as not to force people to leave their homes, so that our land would remain inhabited and people would not be made forced migrants and, therefore, birth delayers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U92	Thank you. Good Mart! Now you've asked me what's really on my mind. The fact that the population of the country is declining is undoubtedly a problem, as well as the fact that people are moving to two major cities, Tallinn and Tartu. These are the attraction centers where people move away from the country. Yes, this committee should certainly examine the incentives why a young family would want to stay on land or live from a city to a country. What's he got there? This is a very important issue and it must be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U93	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. Anneli Ott, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will receive the floor for the presentation of the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 367 of the decision of the Riigikogu on the establishment of the State Assembly Problem Committee for the resolution of the population crisis, submitted by the Social Democratic Party Group, the Estonian Centre Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, was discussed in the committee at its meeting on 17 January. The meeting was chaired by Ken-Marti Vaher, Jüri Adams, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Mart Nutt, Peeter Ernits and Commission advisers took part in the discussion. There was no Anneli Ott, Arto Aas and Lauri Luik. Kersti Sarapuu was invited to the sitting as the representative of the author of the bill. Kersti Sarapuu gave the Commission an overview of the draft at the beginning of the debate. He explained that the new government coalition considers it its most important task to take measures to increase the population. In order to find out more about what measures should be taken, it is proposed to set up a problem committee to address the population crisis. The problem committee's task would be to explore the experiences of both Estonia and foreign countries and, on this basis, to propose solutions to population problems. Of course, interest groups will be involved in the work of the Commission in order to get as broad a picture as possible of the current situation in the country and the direction in which progress should be made. Kersti Sarapuu also noted that since Estonia regained independence, our population has steadily decreased and its main causes are low birth rates and emigration. I'm not gonna bring the bill again, because the waitress already named them here. There was a debate on this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As one point of discussion, Mart Nutt pointed out that if, according to the Constitution, we must ensure the preservation of the Estonian nation, language and culture through the ages, demographically it is also possible to bypass this objective of the Constitution and to increase the age by forgering immigration, for example. As a result of the debate, a few proposals were made within the Commission to amend the text to be sent to first reading. The chairman of the committee, Ken-Marti Vaher, formulated them as follows: The first proposal was to add the task of point 2 of the draft to the duties of the problem committee to analyse and propose measures for the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture. The second proposal related to one sentence of the explanatory memorandum, namely that we are now almost a quarter of a million fewer than we were in the early years of the restoration of independence. In the Commission's minutes, we can read that this sentence raised the question of what exactly this quarter million contains. Finally, the Commission decided to withdraw this confusing sentence from the explanatory memorandum, although data providers claim that only data reflecting the age and emigration of Estonian citizens have been used. The Commission decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session on 26 January 2017 and that the first reading be closed (with 7 votes in favour and 1 against). The deadline for amendments was set at 12 noon on 3 February 2017. Mr Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was initially appointed rapporteur, but since he was unable to attend the plenary session today, this decision was amended at the meeting of the Commission on 23 January and Anneli Ott was appointed new rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U95	The first question is put by Mr Herkel to the rapporteur from the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I will raise the same question as the National Reform Commission. In my opinion, this committee should not work until the end of the mandate of the Riigikogu. There are a number of reasons for this, including the fact that it can really look like someone is being promoted here, so-called paid promotions. The second recital is certainly that, during the election campaign, such committees are not working, a summary should be taken earlier. How do you feel about that? And if you answer that the Commission has not yet discussed it, what is your personal position on the proposal to complete the Commission's work, for example, on 1 October 2018?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U97	Thank you. Yes, it is indeed not in the Commission's protocol. My personal position on this subject is that such a Commission is certainly not redundant. This topic, which we have been discussing at length here today, is one that maybe should be taken into account in any political decision or policy making. That's why we're all sitting in this hall. So I believe that such a committee could have existed a long time ago and that it is by no means redundant. If this Commission issue is not taken seriously enough, we will once again be in a situation where the other committees will no longer make sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U98	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U99	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! As the first rapporteur suggested, I ask you what will be the annual budget for this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U100	Thank you. Our good councillors have given me some very accurate data. I'll read them to you. The annual operating costs per problem committee are EUR 102200, broken down into personnel costs and economic costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U101	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! On 23 November last year, three groups of the EKRE, the Free Party and the Reform Party Group submitted a similar draft, i.e. the draft decision of the Riigikogu to set up a problem committee to examine problems related to population decline. Did the Commission discuss this issue that another similar proposal has already come up? Did you compare these drafts? What are the differences? Is it reasonable to combine these two drafts or not? I also looked on our web that the initiative of 23 November has not really been further developed in the Commission. This gives the impression that the opposition bill is quickly put in a drawer, but the coalition's is quickly brought to the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U103	Thank you. The protocol does not indicate that this draft has been dealt with or discussed. However, the protocol shows that Jaak Madison, on the opposition side, also recognises the initiators of the draft. He says that getting the idea into practice is worth all the credit. I cannot say exactly why this second draft has not been brought aside, but in any case the representatives of the opposition party have also supported the draft in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U104	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You didn't really answer my question. The question was whether this work could not be done faster. But I'll ask you differently. You said the annual budget was about EUR 102000. Does this EUR 102000 also include a premium for the duties of the chairman and vice-chairman of the Commission and, if there is one, how much of the budget is these extras?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U106	Thank you. I believe that you can certainly put this point to the Registry. These amounts are not so detailed in the budget, which is why, unfortunately, I do not know how to respond so precisely to you. The total amount and the amount between which it is divided are given. What are the special fees, I'm afraid I can't tell you that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U107	Dear waitress, there are no more questions for you. Before opening negotiations, I would remind you that representatives of the political groups can take the floor in the current procedure. Please agree among yourselves who represents a particular group. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U108	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! One thing is certain: children with child talk do not make or influence migration. This is not about Anneli Oti, but about Siret Eagle, who defended her salary increase here, nothing else. It would be hysterically funny if it weren't very tragic if one member of the Riigikogu and three other political groups claimed that they would solve the population crisis, that there had been a lot of research in Estonia, but that they had not been put together and that they had not reached the heads of state. It is extremely tragic that this kind of talk is spoken in the 21st century Riigikogu Hall. The basics of population issues, the basic ideas of demographics, have been known for decades, and they are constantly being repeated in new studies and clarified in the local context. In Estonia, it is studied all the time, perhaps too much. It is not a question of it reaching politicians, but of the decisions taken by politicians. If Siret Kotka says that the Reform Party has not allowed action, I will say, just in case, that I wrote the program that included the infamous parental benefit. The main content of the programme was that the state must provide financial support to the most fragile people and the most fragile people, i.e. the poor in particular. The worst-case measure is a tax credit because it never reaches the weakest. The main point of the state is, however, to organise services for collected tax money and, of course, to lay down general regulations that allow parents to get a job and earn a salary and to combine work and family life, children to go to places of interest, develop, get an education and go to a doctor. These basic principles have long been clear, but we didn't hear any indication that the waitresses were somehow familiar with these basic principles. To do what has been said here, the Commission is not needed; no one needs an extra salary to do so. So congratulations to everyone who has turned this long story together, written trivialities in the explanatory notes and put statistical descriptions in the reports! Personally, I can only vote against this bill. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I cannot confirm the same, probably no one will come here to vote against, or at least many will not come, because we are in the middle of another meeting. This infinite flow of special committees in the Riigikogu is not decorated. The fact that money does not have to be mocked everywhere, that the state does not solve all things, and politicians are not miracle workers, these instincts have gone away pretty hopelessly. It is increasingly difficult to listen to and accept these reports. But at least I've given my opinion. Understand, too, that in fact I agree very much with what Anneli Ott said once: all professional politicians, all committees of the Riigikogu have to think about how they make life in Estonia better, living in Estonia better, so that Estonians would like to live here, so that they do not leave. Luckily, they're going less and less, and they're coming back more and more. Our migration is already positive, 13900 births for recent years are actually a relatively good indicator. The way these births are formed has long been explored, too, in what are the demographic waves, which are these measures. On parental compensation, some politicians are always working on it like ravens and claim that it is too rigid a measure known, and Praxis examined that it had a positive effect on ivet, but above all on wealthier women. The reasons why women do not want to give birth are, of course, very delicate, very much involved in women's new mission, working, etc. You can talk about it, but there's still something to be huffed up before the abbot. In my opinion, some kind of support group could be set up, and those who are lagging behind should, however, be trained rather than paid extra wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U109	Peeter Ernits, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U110	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, In many ways, I agree with my colleague Jürgen Ligi, but at the same time I would like to stress that it is actually one of the most important committees that could work in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. I'd call it the Preamble Committee. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we discussed this issue and agreed with my colleague Mart Nut that the purpose of the committee should not only be to raise the number of Estonian people, but also to think about language and culture, how to ensure that the language and culture of the Estonian people are preserved throughout the ages. The background is, in fact, that Rein Ratas once formed a population support group here, which I am a member of. I am glad to see that Prime Minister Jüri, son of Reinu, of the new coalition, has continued his father's line. This is indeed a very important matter and the Commission. The question is how do we know how to use this opportunity sensibly? That's the question. I also welcome Dr. Jaak Uibut, who is definitely watching us and who is a population support group such a good angel and brain. But the task is really complicated. I recall the idea put forward by Margus Tsahkna that the number of Estonians should reach two million. You can laugh about it, but the goal is proud. We have one dogma in NATO, defence costs must be 2% of GDP. We have fulfilled this obligation and even exceeded it in order to protect Estonia from a potential enemy. I'm not gonna tell you who we think it is. But why not set a similar number in this area as well? I am not saying whether this is, on average, two children per woman of childbearing age, this is 2.1 or 2.3, this is the point of discussion. And then, every year, with virtually every bill, you start to watch how it actually helps us go in the right direction, or vice versa, it doesn't. Each year, there could be a central question in the debate on the state budget whether we have approached this figure, whether it is two or some other numbers, or whether we are quite distant from it. Once we have this number set, it's kind of a stick set, and we can actually see if we're moving towards it or not. I stress that this NATO dogma of 2% is excellent, it is to protect the Estonian state. In fact, however, we need to protect the Estonian people, Estonian language and culture, and for that we should have as many of us as possible. That means it's the same strategic number here. So the proposal could be like this. A colleague here said we need to see how life gets better. Hunters know that the more they hunt, the higher the average number of lambs. I do not want to say, of course, that life should make life worse, start deportations or something like that, that people will then react to it as a biological species, and the average number of children will increase. This isn't our way. In reality, these issues are crucial and this Commission, when it is created, should be taken very seriously. I stress that this committee can very easily be made ridiculous, that it is simply such a sit-down, but the aim... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U111	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U112	...is really very important, not very important, but very important. Now everything depends on how smart we are, all those who will be part of the Commission. Not only is it a pleasure to sit at meetings and summarise the results of endless studies, but it is important to set some strategic goals and try to assess whether we are approaching them or moving away from them and how quickly and what action should be taken. I recall that several countries have a demographic security programme, not a military security programme. You could learn from them by adapting the programs to our circumstances. In any case, in my view, and in our view, this committee is crucial, I would call it the Preamble Committee. At the same time, there is a huge risk that the opportunities of this committee will not be exploited, but everything, of course, depends on all of us, the people who will be members of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U113	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U114	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On Tuesday, I gave a long speech here, when discussing the analogy of the draft decision with 368, so I will only try to repeat, quite briefly, the main points of that speech at the moment. Both drafts are the idea of launching a committee of problems in the Riigikogu, for which it is important that these committees of problems are put into effect until the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu. In fact, this is not a problem committee as such, but a rather irresponsible attack on the traditions of the Riigikogu's Rules of Procedure. We have had the principle since 1992 that there are always few committees and that the rest will be created as necessary and within a time limit. These two drafts mean that two permanent committees will be created and the number of permanent committees will probably be very and very high from the next Riigikogu. The second ground of appeal was that there was no direct link, which is why these issues could not be dealt with successfully in another form, without the so-called "problem committee's pseudonym always being put into effect by the committees. The third argument was that our current government coalition could be nicknamed 'We have money like mud! ', initially provided for a total of EUR 200000 per year for the operation of these two Commissions. There is no reason to believe that these work would not be done in a reasonable, cheaper way. Looks like a waste. Finally, if the committee of concern proves necessary, it is undoubtedly up to the Riigikogu plenary to decide on it, it should not be created for longer than one year. It is likely that even shorter working hours than one year will be enough for any committee of problems that is not intended to go on indefinitely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U115	On behalf of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, Henn Põlluaas will receive the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U116	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, In the same way, this bill fills me with joy, because it is undoubtedly an extremely important and necessary Commission and an issue that needs not only to be discussed but also to find very competent and good solutions to resolve our population crisis. On the other hand, however, this gives rise to a slight resentment, as the opposition has put forward exactly the same, of course, not now literally overlapping, but basically the same draft before the coalition came up with it. However, our proposal was simply rejected, not even discussed in the Commission, nor in relation to the current draft. Such a tendency, which is unfortunately one of the negative traditions of the Riigikogu, makes of course sadness and dissatisfaction. But, as I said, it is also a pleasure that such a committee of problems is still being set up. It seems that there is a common understanding of most of these issues, although today there was also a voice against them. It would have been a long time for such a Commission to be set up, because the problems of demography have not been created today, since our negative ambitions and emigration have not arisen. These are very long-term trends and problems that come not only from re-independence Estonia, but from much earlier times. According to experts during the occupation, 500000 children and half a million children were not born in Estonia. Just as many immigrants from Russia were settled here. If all of this had not happened, our current situation would probably be quite different, but we must take into account that history cannot be changed. But we can change the future and do everything we can to turn these intermediate gaps, the minuses into a plus. In this respect, I do not want to agree with the position of Mr Herkel, Chairman of the Free Party Group, that maybe we should do this in an urgent way and solve the problems by 2018. No, these problems are not the kind that can be solved at the moment with one or two decisions; they are a long process that involves an enormous number of factors. This will take more time than the mandate of its membership. It should be a permanent Commission which will also carry out the same task in the next configurations. This whole area of activity, how and with which to increase birth rates, how to increase return migration, is so important and extensive that no one really has a single recipe. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U117	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U118	Thank you. We have also discussed these aspects and proposed methods in our own party. It is not only important that our families have a third child, on which the emphasis is now placed and which has also received support from Estonian businessmen. This is very commendable, but it is more important that the first child and the second child are born in families, because there will be no third without them. You gotta put pressure on that, too. To link, for example, pensions to the number of children on the table, to income tax, to the number of children, for example, to home credit benefits for young families, etc. Today is neither the time nor the place where solutions should be proposed, but it is a matter of thought in the Commission's further action. Without the Estonian people, there is no point in our activities, no commission or Estonian state at all, because the Republic of Estonia is a nation state, it is enshrined in our constitution. I am very pleased that the Constitutional Preamble sentence has been included in the decision to set up this committee: Estonia was created to preserve Estonian language, culture and people throughout the ages. This is extremely important, and that is the most important goal of our entire country's existence and existence. In recent years, we have had extremely large immigration. In 2015, 8 000 people came to Estonia, 5,000 of them from third countries, over 9,000 in 2016 and more than 6,000 from third countries. Meanwhile, 6,000 people left last year. In total, 130,000 people have left us, mostly Estonians. If we do not stop this process, if we do not increase the birth rate, then there is no point, as I said, for the Estonian state as such, because immigrants, whether they speak Estonian or whether they have any appearance, are not Estonians. It surprises me that although the former government was aware of all such tendencies and studies, as Mr Ligi announced, nothing has been done so far in 25 years. Let's do it now! By setting up a population problem committee, we give a new hope to the Estonian people. I hope we are unanimous on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U119	Andres Herkel has the right to be heard. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U120	Mr President! Mr Põllaas mentioned my name and removed my position from the question, which is why I consider it necessary to clarify my position. It is not, on the contrary, as the Free Party would think that this Commission and this issue are not important. Jüri Adams, in my opinion, has already mediated relatively clearly the view that the nature of the problem committees should be such that a problem is raised and then resolved within a certain period of time. I think it is hugely important that we do not discredit this issue so that this committee does not become such a committee of ticking. I reiterate these arguments as to why I think this deadline is important. Firstly, it is important because it does not look like the Commission is simply being set up for posts. Secondly, the logic of the Riigikogu's work, which has taken a long time to realise it, indicates quite clearly that in the pre-election period such problem committees do not work. Then politicians deal with other things, attention is elsewhere. It would be reasonable to call it a positive step in terms of image design and a signal to set the deadline for the work of such committees by autumn 2018 at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-26_U121	Thank you for the thoughts that went not only to the protocol, but hopefully also to those who will probably work in this committee. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 367. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the submission of 367 amendments at 12 noon on 3 February. Our trial today is over. Thank you for today's debates and I wish you the strength to work in committees and elsewhere, no matter where you represent the Estonian Riigikogu! Closure of the sitting at 11.43 a.m.
