ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We'll start the Monday session on the 15th working week. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U2	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party Group, I am proposing a draft repeal of the Cohabitation Act. Politics is dynamic. Since last time we filed the same bill here and it barely passed the first reading, the chairman has changed on four parliamentary parties, most recently on the IRL. Congratulations on becoming Chairman of Helir-Valdor Seeder! One part of his campaign to apply for the chairmanship of the party was to emphasise the need to repeal the Cohabitation Act. The Centre Party was also in opposition at the time of the last vote on this matter. The decision of the party bureau was to cancel the draft. Let's see if we can now see if the Center Party has a sense of mind or another turn of heel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U3	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an inquiry to make on behalf of members of several political groups. The topic is financing song and dance parties and the survival of the song festival movement. Although it seems to us that all the things that concern the singing parties are popular and great everything is good and that everyone is happy when one song party has been gone again, we feel more united, cheerful and look forward to the future, the situation of financing song parties and the party movement is actually very dark. One problem is that choir leaders are no longer present because they do not feel the value of their work. Vocational schools are not invited; they must apply for it separately. And also, if they do their day-to-day work, they don't pay. Sometimes choirs even raise money and give to choir leaders. That's one side of it. Another problem is that a number of security problems have arisen in the light of the arrival of children and young people at a singing party. The problem with sound equipment is: public procurement has failed because it has proved too expensive. Security measures cannot be sufficiently implemented because there is no money left in the budget. It is also unknown how exactly the 2019 Song and Dance Festival will be funded. Several international singing parties, such as Europa Cantat and Gaudeamus, are also under question next year. And in all of this, we want to make an inquiry to finance minister Sven Sester. The problem is that the Home and Working Procedures Act only gives him the opportunity to respond in the autumn. But we really hope that the answers to these questions will still be here before the song and dance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U5	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U6	Honourable Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. First, the bill to amend the law on atmospheric air protection. Secondly, the draft law amending the radiation law. Thirdly, the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and the general part of the environmental code. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these three draft laws in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of this bill in the Riigikogu. And fifthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U7	There's no more calls. I have adopted six drafts and one inquiry, and I will continue to deal with them in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 90 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session. Clarification of the agenda. The Committee on Legal Affairs has proposed to remove 17th item from the agenda of this working week's Wednesday session, i.e. the first reading of the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act 416. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U8	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. It is not a question of this item on the agenda that we have already discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs that, of course, another minister could have covered the Minister of the Interior there, but all right. Rather, I would like to ask you a little more about the agenda before us. We can see that we have two important national issues on our agenda this week, which have not been generally good practice. We have so far confined ourselves to one of the key national issues of the week. And another concern relates to the tax quality letter sent to the political groups yesterday, sent by the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers. It draws attention to the very bad legislative practice that is emerging in this great Chamber in connection with the super Wednesday, which I would call a black Wednesday. What is your message to the entrepreneurs and also to us here, why is this agenda before us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U9	Yes, indeed, on important national issues, it has been our practice that we put on the agenda a very important national issue per week. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The rest of you know it, they don't want to listen, but I'd be happy if I could answer Pevkur. For these items on the agenda, which are important national issues, pre-planning is beautifully long and that is understandable. For example, the Thursday item also shows that the main rapporteurs come from outside the Riigikogu. I therefore believe that the Committee on Culture, too, was based on the best of wishes and found the right time, having discussed for a long time when waiters could come. And neither does the ELAK's proposal to discuss the Presidency in the right way is it possible to move it somewhere, after all, the Presidency is not about to begin. It really happened this week that both of these important national issues are on the agenda and that, of course, the planning of the agenda was more tense. On behalf of the Bureau, I am very grateful to the Group of the Reform Party and the Free Party for their cooperation in putting this agenda together. At first, he was even taller. So, unfortunately, this has happened this time. As far as this letter is concerned, it has come to the Board of the Riigikogu. The board meeting is tomorrow, and we'll discuss it there. We'll be preparing the answer, as we all know. The letter has really come. It's a letter to the entire board. We have been discussing these issues before, and we have had our differences of opinion. But let's see what we can do then. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have such a suggestion that we can now work together on the agenda. And, in the light of this, too, of the quality of legislation and the lack of analysis of its impact, I have such a proposal. The first item of item 10 should be excluded from the Wednesday agenda, i.e. item 460, as well as item 11 - item 457, item 12 - item 458, and item 13 - item 456. They are all about tax and budgetary balance, and I think they are also about employers' letters. In addition, we propose to exclude item 15, Rail Baltic draft number 449 and point 23, draft e-election reduction 400.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U11	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U12	Thank you. I have a simpler proposal. I notice some inconsistency in the board's activities. Last time we discussed how the taxation of loans, car taxes, excise duties, etc. go to a single vote and that they have a common denominator, which I think was a benefit. I notice that there are now as many as 16 points that the Government of the Republic has presented in the first reading of various things. I propose that they all be put on a single point, because they are all about the good of the people. At least I'm sure that's the government's position. Then we'd be able to do it a lot faster.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U13	The irony was there, but the adequacy wasn't. The Bureau cannot unite them, the initiator of the draft has brought them here as such. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I'm talking about the real thing. Since you proposed to change the agenda and remove item 17, I would like to protest against it and say to put it back on point 17. In my understanding, the only reason you have to take it out now is that you are in a terrible hurry to turn the Estonian economy upside down, and you are afraid that some other drafts will get in the way of this. But I think they might be able to interfere, because especially with the border guard law, which is planned here, it is also quite urgent. And this is one of the few drafts on Wednesday that really does not harm Estonia. So why don't we just leave him in?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U15	It was a proposal from the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to stress, Mr Randpere, once again: I hope that the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this and proposed it. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U16	The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this, but there we were driven over by a roller, let's just say what this coalition used to do. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, and also here, I understand that it was said that the Minister could not participate, and whatever it was said. If you would at least honestly say that you want to do this in order to adopt the laws on tax increases, I might even vote in favour. But I can't go along with lies like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U17	The Minister has really left Estonia, as far as I know, and is expected by this time. But no problem, if there is a protest, the item will remain on the agenda and the substitute minister will have to protect it. So the item stays on the agenda if anyone is against withdrawal. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U18	I am not addressing any committees or others, but I have a direct critical remark. In other words, the Chairman of the Riigikogu and his deputies have carried out pure screw-up and haltuura. Black Wednesday, 15th point, Rail Baltic. The presentation is from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The positive aspects of Ernst & Young's analysis are known to relate to social issues, environmental issues, etc. But we have the Economic Commission as co-rapporteur, so the only committee that has nothing to say because they have Ernst & Young's analysis. But in the Committee on Rural Affairs or in another normal committee, who could assess the positive aspects of Rail Baltic, it is not. What was the point of the Riigikogu's board of directors? Why was the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on the Environment not allowed to discuss the topic of Rail Baltic? Why did you jam it, what's right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U19	We are not stuck in any way, we have no right to do so. The Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on the Environment are completely free to discuss this draft and I call for it to be done. However, the Home and Rules of Procedure Act provides that we are to appoint one commission for a bill, otherwise the Riigikogu will become a circus in the House. We can't do this any other way. So I call on the Committee on Rural Affairs and the Committee on the Environment to discuss this draft. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U20	Dear Eiki, with such cheap tricks, we shouldn't catch each other. You understand the contents very well. You've ruled out other committees taking part in this talk by the commission. I mean, I understand your point. Gräzin can't talk about Rail Baltic. That was your thing. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] You say it's a circus. Okay, maybe I am fun. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But that doesn't give you the right to decide what I can talk about. You're going to use a corner trick and find a fictitious, first-time commission to discuss a subject that has nothing to do with this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U21	It was a pretty unanimous decision in the board. We can discuss tomorrow that suddenly it should be sent to the Committee on Rural Affairs. But really, the Bureau's opinion was that Rail Baltic's draft was the subject of the Economic Commission. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U22	Thank you, Mr President. I do not want to seem ironic in any way, in my opinion, my question is very different from the others, but in a serious area. You said that important issues are being prepared for a very long time, but on this Thursday's agenda there is a state-of-the-art moment. Can we fix this linguistic bullshit right now? I mean it. I am terribly disturbed by this sloppy language, which, according to the Bureau, also reaches the agenda. Someone should also deal with the wordings. We are going to prepare for a moment in a month's time and call it a nationally important moment. I don't think that was the most important moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U23	I ask the Committee on Culture to discuss this and, if necessary, to clarify the title of the item. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U24	Thank you, Mr President. The Centre Party Group does not support the Free Party's proposal to exclude these drafts from the Wednesday 17 May procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U25	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting and the President of the Riigikogu. Since the members of the Estonian Riigikogu who were members of the Riigikogu before the Second World War probably cannot defend themselves against accusations, I will try to do so myself. In fact, in their time it was quite common that the same draft was dealt with by two, three or more committees in the Riigikogu. The situation, when there was only one commission, was quite rare and unusual. If you're saying that their work placement was just a circus, I can't agree with you in any way. And I ask you to correct this, insulting their memory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U27	I didn't mean to offend them in any way, and I apologize to them. But for me, it is incomprehensible that we will have the same draft before this House in different forms. Igor Gräzin, please, continue on behalf of the Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U28	Does MP Gräzin belong to those you apologize to? [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U29	I'm sure it will, in case the vigilante hurts Gräzin. In this case, I don't see that possibility. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote on the agenda as presented to you so that item No 17 is also included. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and against, with no abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U30	Let us begin the debate on the items on the agenda. And first of all, we have an inquiry on the agenda, which is presented by Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Artur Talvik, Monika Haukanõm and Krista Aru. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U31	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honorable Prime Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! About a month and a half ago, the National Audit Office published the audit "Financing local governments." This is a large analysis of the financial information of Estonian local governments in recent years, where the results are quite predictable: there is a great deal of inequality between Estonian local governments, Estonian local governments can have very little influence on their own income, and this inequality between local governments will not decrease after the planned administrative reform for a long time, but may grow. Both the current government and the previous government have stressed on several occasions that local governments are getting a lot of money. It's commendable, but it doesn't solve the problem alone. At present, 83% of municipalities have basic income per capita below the average. So the current model of municipal funding, as such, is in question. And the formula of the equalisation fund, which, by its very wording, should reduce this inequality and smooth it out, does not work. The local government representative organisations have pointed out the shortcomings in this equalisation fund model in the past, but unfortunately they have not been taken into account. This is regrettable, since the aim of the administrative reform as a whole is precisely to ensure that the inhabitants of different municipalities have as equal or at least equal opportunities as possible to receive different services and that there are no very large differences in the way they live. It is quite remarkable that this issue has been discussed by the government, but at least the results of the debate have not yet been reported to the public at a time when there have been quite exactly five months until the municipal elections. How they will be financed next year is certainly quite an exciting question for the local governments and many inhabitants of local governments. We hope that thanks to this inquiry, the Prime Minister will have the opportunity to respond exhaustively to this question, as well as to specific questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U32	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U33	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs of the Free Party, first of all, thank you very much for making this inquiry. As usual, if I may, I will read the question first and then the answer. 'What is the impact on the development and sustainability of Estonian municipalities and on the regional policy of the state as a whole? " At present, local authorities differ from one's own capacities. Due to the small size of the municipalities, a large part of them lack the number of inhabitants and the budgetary capacity to pool sufficient expertise to actually influence the development of the local environment. In addition, it is more difficult for small municipalities to hire suitably qualified officials and staff to perform their tasks. Workers often need to be able to perform different tasks in small municipalities in different areas at once, which prevent the quality of the services provided from being improved. In small municipalities, general development is also fragmented and problematic. The administrative reform will help to harmonise the capacity of local authorities. The aim of the reform is to create more capable municipalities that can plan the development of the whole region more comprehensively by providing better public services, thereby slowing down peripheralisation and balancing the regional development of Estonia. The second question: 'Does and what impact does administrative reform have on the harmonisation of the financial capacity of local authorities? Does it have the prerequisites to change the current proportion where only a small number of municipalities receive higher than average returns? " In some regions there is a merger of local government units with different financial capacities, resulting in a convergence of their financial capacity. Mergers in the trans-Estonian dimension do not significantly affect regional differences. The third question: 'The State Audit Office conducted a survey of local authorities in the preparation of the overview, examining opinions on the funding and expectations of local authorities. What conclusions does the Government of the Republic draw from the results and conclusions of this survey and the audit of the National Audit Office as a whole? ' Even before presenting the results of the audit of the National Audit Office, the government in office had specifically agreed in the coalition agreement to increase the income base of local governments: it promised to restore the percentage of personal income tax and increase the financial autonomy of local governments before the crisis. These have been and are among the most important objectives of a working government coalition agreement. According to the budget strategy of the state, which has just been approved by the government, the revenue base of local governments is being increased and their capacity to provide public services is increasing significantly. Municipalities will receive the 2018-2021. EUR 185 million in 2005. I repeat: the municipalities will receive an increase of EUR 185 million in 2018 to 2021, plus public subsidies. In the coming year, the income tax revenue of local governments will increase by around 57 million euros. In addition, EUR 30 million will be provided next year to increase the municipal income base more generally, EUR 15 million will be added in 2019 and EUR 10 million will be added in 2020. There is also a significant increase in government support for municipalities. For example, in 2018 EUR 14.25 million will be earmarked to support recreational activities, at least EUR 12 million to raise the salaries of kindergarten teachers, around EUR 6 million to improve access to school lunch, EUR 4 million to pay funeral allowances, and almost EUR 6 million as a new measure for school support services. The administrative reform which will be completed this year will be supported in the form of merger grants of some EUR 65 million. Additional money can significantly improve the capacity of all local authorities to provide local services. When drafting proposals for the development of the income base of local governments, we have taken into account the problems raised in the National Audit Office's review. For example, the distribution of the compensatory fund should take into account changes in the cost structure of local authorities over the years, given the need for capital expenditure and the increased cost needs of low population and sparsely populated areas. The government discussed proposals to change the income base of local governments at its seminar at the beginning of this year. In the near future, concrete proposals, drawn up under the direction of the Minister for Public Administration, will also reach the government office. The fourth question: 'The judgment of the Supreme Court has declared an illegal situation where there is no legislation defining the national and self-governing tasks assigned to the local authorities. What is your assessment of failure to comply with the decision of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court on 16 March 2010 by different governments over a long period of time? When will this problem be solved? " According to the Supreme Court's judgment, the legislator must establish such legislative acts as would enable local governments to distinguish the money allocated to the decision-making and organisation of local life from the money allocated to the fulfilment of public obligations and to provide for the financing of the state obligations imposed on local governments by law from the state budget. Due to the Supreme Court's judgment, the regional department of the Ministry of Interior, which has now been transferred to the Ministry of Finance, prepared a guide in 2010 with indicative criteria for delineating mandatory local government functions and state tasks performed by local government units. It is available on the website of the Ministry of Finance. On 8 April 2010, at the meeting of the Government Office, the Ministry of Industry was entrusted with the task of assessing the national responsibilities assigned to local authorities in the legislation of its area of government and of making appropriate amendments to the legislation and financing of the tasks. As a result of this process, the public tasks performed by local authorities were identified, which had so far been considered and financed as self-governing tasks, such as the provision of library services, the registration of births and deaths in the population register, and the transport of the deceased who were found to be uninhabited or in a public place. The laws of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were clarified in 2010: the costs of these tasks are reimbursed to local authorities from the state budget, and their funding has since 2011 been shown on a separate budget line in the state budget and clearly distinguishable from the resources assigned to the municipal tasks of local authorities, i.e. personal income tax, fine-tuning fund and grant fund. It is not necessary to adopt a separate legal act that lists all the functions of a local government or state. This was not the content of the Supreme Court's decision at the time. The functions of local government are laid down in both the Local Government Organisation Act and the specific laws governing the fields. They lay down the responsibilities of the local authority in the performance of its task and, in certain cases, how the local authority must organise this area at a minimum level, i.e. whether it is a self-governing or a public task. The state budget also provides resources for local authorities to carry out additional public tasks, differentiated from the general income base of local authorities. Question 5: "What is the government planning to do to increase the financial autonomy of the local government, so that local governments can use money more flexibly and rationally and that there is sufficient resources to invest in the future? ' As I pointed out in Question 3, the government has planned to increase the revenue base of local governments by a total of EUR 185 million over the period 2018 to 2021, in addition to the increase in the volume of several support measures, as well as new measures. Additional funding can significantly improve the capacity of all local authorities to provide local services, including investment. According to the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance, the investments by local governments over the period 2018 to 2020 amount to around EUR 1.5 billion. I also repeat that the government has considered it important to increase the autonomy of local governments, i.e. to reduce dependence on the central government. This is also stated as one of the objectives of the government's action programme. In this way, we have discussed several times during our consultations the transfer of additional tasks to local authorities to increase their decision-making and responsibility in managing and organising society, as well as the transfer of part of the public tasks to local authorities with the corresponding funding. To this latter, I would like to draw special attention to the fact that, when it comes to tasks, the corresponding funding must also be given. The meaning of the Constitution and the law provide for this. The government aims to significantly increase the current share of local governments in government expenditure by 25%. It is therefore estimated that local authorities should be transferred to local authorities for some EUR 500 million. The package of tasks to be given to local governments and which grants can be converted into a revenue base will be discussed more closely by the government in the coming month. Today, it has been decided to increase the role of local authorities in organising regional public transport through public transport centres. Dear questioners, once again, thank you for raising this important issue. I am certainly ready to respond to your supplementary questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U34	And now there will be more questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U35	Thank you. Honorable Prime Minister! By throwing a bit of a gallows joke, we now have such a thorough government that he cares for both the living and the dead. But my question is actually serious. You said in the next month you'd be discussing all this in the government if I understood correctly. When will you come to the Riigikogu with the bill? And when will the local authorities know exactly what will happen next year? When can they start putting their budgets together?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U36	Thank you. First of all, the first part of this question: no, I do not think it is a gallows, because I actually remember what the feedback and reaction was when the funeral allowance was lost. It was also a matter of great dignity. Yes, the coalition has decided that the universal funeral allowance will be restored, and the cost of it is Circa 4 million euros. It is true that in the next month we will be discussing both the financing model of the municipalities, as I said, and the specific tasks that I was talking about. When will the bill come to the Riigikogu? After these discussions, the government must take action, and it will certainly do so. You said that local authorities would soon start designing their budgets and planning certain lines in their budgets. Yeah, that's very true. At the same time, we can see that very many, most of the municipalities, take advantage of the opportunity that the law gives them to adopt the budget. This is the possibility that the first reading of the budget will take place on its councils during the current year, or largely in December. And then the state is expected to make certain decisions, which are mainly related to education grants, and then second and third readings are made. The major municipalities will, of course, adopt the budget by the end of the current year. But I think that giving such legal certainty and clarity is also important for the current government, which you have emphasised.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U37	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. But from these answers, I still could not clearly understand how you intend to solve this fundamental problem of distribution of income between municipalities. I am asking more specifically about point 34 of this audit, which concerns a well-known subject, the so-called 'roof money' or regional investment. You yourself were probably on the Board of the Riigikogu when this practice took root here. The National Audit Office is quite critical of such proposals at the last moment. Tell me, does the Government of the Republic have any means to enable members of the Riigikogu to intervene in the definition of investments at the earlier stages of budgeting, or that at least these proposals should not become a counterband before the third reading, i.e. they would come here earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U39	Thank you for your question. First of all, if we take out the main conclusions from the audit of the National Audit Office, one of the main conclusions is where the National Audit Office says the following. In 2009, the rate of income tax received by local authorities was reduced by 0.53 percentage points and the total grant fund was reduced by 19 million euros, and in the intervening years these receipts have not been restored. Income tax revenue also exceeded the 2008 level measured at real prices in 2015. Nevertheless, the introduction of the income tax rate to the pre-cut level has been the most important requirement for local authorities to negotiate the budget and also to carry out administrative reform. In this conclusion, the National Audit Office actually refers to the negotiations of the Trans-Estonian Assembly of Municipalities Cooperation with a country where, after 2009, the restoration of the budgetary position has really been required every year. That was also the reason why I made it so specific that the current government has decided to restore the percentage of personal income tax. Now, you had a question about what this formula is going to look like. I fully agree that for the sums for which it has now been agreed that they will come to the local authorities, a specific financing model and formula is needed. This task is entrusted to the Minister of Public Administration. He must come to the Office of the Government of the Republic with his proposal within a month, four weeks at the latest. It's very important. And the government coalition has said that we will restore the funding of local governments to the amount of EUR 30 million. When we think back to 2009, when this cut in the order of 440 million kroons was made, there were actually two things that were taken away from the municipalities. One of them was support for youth sport. I think that all municipalities have taken a very responsible approach to youth sport and have continued to fund it. So when this amount is restored, I think one important principle is that most of it actually goes to the restoration of the personal income tax percentage of the local government. Behind this particular component, in addition to this 15 million and 25 million, which have already been planned in the national budget for 2018 and 2019, there is really no such clear principle or formula for how to distribute it among local governments. This is the formula that the Minister for Public Administration must bring to the Cabinet. The second question: these regional investments. Well, there's always been a sort of spin around these things. At the same time, I think that the proposals made by the members of the Riigikogu on regional investments have mostly been necessary for this area, for example, to go to kindergartens or schools. I think they have generally been a matter of very specific detail or a concern for solving the problem. How can this approach be more systematic so that they do not reach the table, as you said, before the third reading of the state budget and its adoption? I think we can find a more systematic solution so that there is even closer contact with the members of the Riigikogu and the Minister of the Government in this area. But I certainly do not dare to say here in the Riigikogu's speech that they are completely bad or negative, because let us be honest, nor is there a much better solution for these so-called regional investments. Could it be more systematic? Yeah, I could. Is that supposed to be a clearer rule, an approach? I think it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U40	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U41	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The National Audit Office's report has noted that, unfortunately, the state has not compensated the municipalities for the tasks they have taken as an extension of the state's arm. And the local governments have gone to court to make up for the costs. At the Court, municipalities have acquired the right, but the State has not paid the other municipalities that have voluntarily taken and performed the same functions. The conclusion is perhaps that one of the reasons for this situation is that the responsibilities of local authorities have not been analysed so far in order to identify all the national tasks. Why has the government not undertaken to review the same tasks in terms of administrative reform law and to some extent compensated for the debts that previous municipalities, governments have caused to local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U42	Thank you. I think you did not mean the previous municipalities, but you wanted to say that the previous governments have created them for the municipalities. First of all, this administrative reform is actually accompanied by very serious changes to the state reform as well. One of them is the abolition of rural governments. I certainly dare say that, and I am responsible for those words, that if we decide now or negotiate some sort of national tasks that local authorities have to assume, then there has always been and will always be another side to the sentence: it also means a certain financial commitment. It can't be, and that's what I said when I answered the question, I told you that we would give a task, we would give a commitment, but we wouldn't give any funding. I remember how much really there were disputes over the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act years ago when the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act imposed certain obligations on local governments, but it did not provide funding. You are right: this also led to a great many judicial decisions. And what was the reason for the court settlements? Because both Chapter 14 of the Constitution and the Law on the Organisation of Local Government say that when the State gives tasks or responsibilities, it must be guaranteed by means of funding. If you're asking if you're going to impose sanctions on someone, I don't really believe that the Free Party's goal is to punish everyone, and I don't really know who's going to be punished here. The question is, I think, good governance practice and principle. And good practice and the principle and the law are clear: if the municipality receives tasks, it must also receive money. If the state says that we want to raise the cost of a school lunch for local governments from 78 euro cents to 1 euro, then that is not all, but also the real cost of money. In this case, this means a size of EUR 6 million and is intended for local authorities. When we say that local authorities have to deal with intra-regional public transport, we also say that, in addition to the current funding, the state will provide an additional EUR 21 million. These same public transport centres can decide how to provide more operational, better and affordable public transport within the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U43	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U44	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The government is developing a new financing model for local governments. At the same time, we know that local authorities have been drawing the attention of the government for many years, repeatedly, precisely that education subsidies are too fragmented, that their use is too precisely targeted. Will and to what extent the government now be willing to consider less fragmentation and less precise targeting of education support when developing a new financing model, simply delivering education support as a whole, undistributed so precisely that this amount is for school lunches, this amount is for support professionals, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U45	Thank you. The government is a collegiate organ of the state. This is the point one. In my opinion, this approach is very sensible. If you make a very strong change in education support and say that it is to finance local authorities, then their autonomy or the right to decide at what point the investment support, teachers' continuing training, seminars, conferences that part of it goes to school lunch, teachers' pay etc. will increase. I guess that's a good idea. If the country leaves very strong, say, lines in place, then, I think, there is no point in moving this education support either. It makes sense to move it only if we really tell the municipalities that their ability to decide on this is increasing. However, we have actually done so in the field of education. Today we see that we trust school leaders in, for example, concluding contracts, hiring teachers. I think that if we have stronger, more capable municipalities besides administrative reform, the idea that the municipality can decide on this amount of education support in the context of its own, so-called local government, is correct. Is that gonna happen? As I said, give the government a little more time to deal with this issue so that it can come before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U46	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! The third question of our question, and the answer to it, is a bit of concern to me. You said that over the next four years, you will increase the funding of local governments by 185 million euros and you will also mention the places where the funds will move. At the same time, it did not sound very clear that the National Audit Office examined the funding of local governments and, in fact, the expectations. What conclusions does the Government of the Republic draw from this survey in addition to funding? It's not just giving money that solves these problems. Is there anything else in the plan besides giving money to support local governments' livelihoods?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U48	Thank you. I think that this question is very justified and actually begins with how we even compartmentalize or define who these local governments are in Estonia. In my opinion, local authorities are not subordinate to government or central government. Local authorities are partners. In cooperation with the state and local authorities, very many issues of local life or state life can be resolved very effectively. In my opinion, in addition to giving the euro to local authorities, it is also necessary to entrust the resolution of certain issues. The same question as the previous questioner asked about education benefits. I understand what fear that is. When it is said that the municipality can distribute education support as it sees fit, the question arises as to whether it will give enough to raise the pay of teachers. I think that this dimension or aspect of trust is very, very important. I think that the various projects that the state and local authorities can do together are also very important. What do I mean by that? For example, delivering a high-speed internet in the field of information technology, I think it is important. Where else can local authorities and the state cooperate well? There are also planning questions. In many cases, certain large-scale planning is also linked to more generally important public activities, be they large-scale private investment, be they public investment in infrastructure, for example. We certainly expect greater cooperation between local authorities and the state here. I think that there must also be greater cooperation between the state and local authorities in the field of internal security. Local authorities are actually very important partners for the police and the Rescue Board, both through their social, public and welfare fields. I will deliberately exclude from my answer all words or thoughts relating to investment or financing, because your question was what other areas are. I think that's it. If, at one point, we get so far that we can seriously work through the financing model of local governments that it does not depend only on the number of inhabitants, there is now a huge struggle for heads or inhabitants, because it is directly linked to the income base of local governments, there could be further developments here: whether to link it to the number of jobs created by the private sector on the territory of the municipality. I think this discussion should definitely continue in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U49	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U50	Good Chairman! Good Prime Minister! I'm sorry, but when I listen to these answers, I want to scream, scream or something. I have the impression that the government has become incomprehensible, which is a major objective or message of the audit of the National Audit Office. And this big message is, in my opinion, that if we continue in the same way, we will not change the lives of Estonian society, Estonian local governments, our people. What is the great idea of this government with regard to the sustainability of local governments, it has not been understood today. The Free Party can tell us what the big goal and idea is. To this end, there is a municipality that is independent in terms of both the income base, tasks and the provision of services. This means that we need to create a more flexible financing system that gives local authorities the right to find the right tasks and also the right tools so that they are not solely dependent on the state budget. The National Audit Office has also made this very clear in only 17% of their income the local governments have the opportunity to decide for themselves. It's a huge change of mind. And it is such a change of thinking that the local government is a partner of the state, not a subordinate, who has to do what is prescribed by law, and even more so, who does not receive compensation from the state for what it has done with goodwill. Some experts have also said that our constitution does not say that the local government is an extension of the state, as governments-governments-governments have thought and dealt with, but is a representative of the community. He is the body that should stand up for the well-being of our people, not so much for the state, but they are naturally linked. At the same time, I also ask where is the government's passion to talk about government as a community, as our people. Where is the passion that would allow us to be free and fair to our people? I would like to comment on the audit of the National Audit Office, the conclusion concerning the Equalisation Fund. It should aim to harmonise the financial opportunities of local authorities, but it does not really do so. I quote three reasons. Firstly, the balance of the costs to be borne by the Equalisation Fund is based on the costs incurred by the municipalities for the turn of the century. Perhaps here is the question of why we have not come to the modern life model and needs of dealing with the administrative reform law and other laws that we have here (e.g. the reform of rural governments). Secondly, the Equalisation Fund does not take into account the higher per capita cost needs of small and remote municipalities. Perhaps I would like to reiterate the example of this administrative reform, where this 5000 is still not comparable to 500000 or even 50000, this inequality remains. And even if the personal income tax rate is brought to pre-crisis levels, it does not solve existing problems but rather deepens them. This is also made very clear by the National Audit Office's report. The third bottleneck is that the Equalisation Fund does not finance the investment needs of municipalities. The issue of investment is likely to come up again in the new, larger municipalities, because the whole picture is now being seen more widely and the assumption is that more will be achieved to help the 'poor regions'. But, of course, we need to create prerequisites for that. Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U51	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U52	Perhaps I would like to hear from the Prime Minister at least what action plans will follow when the municipal elections are over when 1 January 2018 is over. Will they be ready for the real content of the municipality by then? I've made proposals from this remote control several times, but I'm going to make another concrete proposal. Members of the Free Party and the Prime Minister have announced that they will not stand as candidates for municipal elections. Would it be possible to lead our cooperation to the launch of a debate on the tasks of local communities, local authorities and the state? This certainly cannot be resolved quickly, of course, there are many participants, there are many interests. But the general principles are, I think, possible to agree and negotiate, because there is no other way forward. The opportunity for Estonia would be to distinguish between flexible structures and to trust local governments, which as a small country we are certainly much easier to do than in larger countries. What did the Prime Minister fail to answer was the same third question: what is your assessment of the audit of the National Audit Office? Perhaps the rest of our country's structural units are important to political decision-makers, are their comments significant? What are the analyses the government has done? As we have seen on various issues, the various institutions (e.g. the National Audit Office, the Chancellor of Justice) are doing a tremendous job because they communicate directly with people. They don't walk around, they don't send people around the corner. They give us feedback on real needs, but for some reason politicians have not been able to follow up on these conclusions and seek common solutions. I hope that the Prime Minister will speak once again here and will also say a clear message on this point. So hope for you isn't quite out, but unfortunately, he's about to go out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U53	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish to speak, but the Prime Minister does.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U54	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I do not know whether there is a need to scream here or not, but a member of the Riigikogu always has this opportunity. I cannot say whether it should be seen in the darkest shades as the previous speaker, but if a member of the Riigikogu says that the Prime Minister must return to the Riigikogu Chair, he will come. Here I stand. First of all, I want to say a few words about what this big idea is. I think the big idea is that the number of Estonian residents does not decrease, that life in Estonia is possible everywhere, whether it is Sindi or Kohtla-Järve, it is Tallinn or Häädemeeste, it is Võru or Kärdla, it is Rapla or Viljandi. This is the main objective so that we do not lose our population so that Estonia's population returns to rising again. Of course, there are instruments for this. And these tools are that we can provide the highest possible quality and operational service in various areas. That's what the government is working for. I didn't understand that you first argued with me here that the government was somehow up and down, and then you said that the government had to be a partner, the local government must not be an extension. Jüri Ratas said here in the Riigikogu Chair that it is important to him that the government and local governments are partners. I don't know if you guys were listening or not, but I was talking about the exact same thing. What is real content? For years, the cooperation body of local governments has said that there is no way forward with the income base that has been cut during this crisis. This has been the case since 2009. The current government has said yes, that is the problem. That is why we will put together 90 million more in the next three years to restore this percentage of personal income tax. We have said that very many tasks and responsibilities should, in our opinion, go to local authorities. But let's add the phrase 'with funding' to it. The current government certainly trusts local authorities in providing services. We think that municipalities are very good service providers. Now for the audit of the National Audit Office. I recommend that the honourable member of the Riigikogu, for a moment, examine the audit of the National Audit Office, which was already carried out, I think, eight to nine years ago. It said that 10% of local governments could do it and 90% could not deliver their services. This was when there were 226 municipalities in the size of Estonia. This is the goal of making local authorities stronger. At the time, the proposal of the National Audit Office was that all 226 municipalities do their own programme, which still does not connect. Yes, I think the audit of the National Audit Office is a very serious document and deserves attention. I read the same thing that the audit of the National Audit Office also says that the income base of local governments must be increased. When tasks are assigned, funding must also be provided. And I dare to assure you that this has been discussed and repeatedly taken by the government over the last four or five months in very substantive decisions. If you want a very concrete, detailed example, somewhere five or six years ago, the same council of cooperation of local governments proposed to the state: there are so many drowning deaths in Estonia that the state must increase its contribution to swimming instruction. It currently amounts to around EUR 230000 to EUR 240000 per year. We've decided we're gonna put an extra one million in there. A specific message, a specific request, a specific solution! I don't know why I had to wait seven or eight years, but that's why we had to wait for this change in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U55	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U56	The next item is the inquiry submitted by Maris Lauri, Arto Asa, Urmas Kruuse, Terje Trei, Ants Laaneots, Liina Kersna, Kalle Pallingu, Keit Pentus-Rosimudus, Urve Tiidus, Anne Sullingu, Igor Gräzini and Lauri Luige. And on behalf of the heirs, Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U57	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Our consultation concerns the problems of digital social development. What was the question? It came from the fact that we have heard several times in recent months about the various problems that have arisen in the administration of the Minister for Health and Labour and the Minister for Social Protection. We do not want to pay attention to the fact that there is one particular problem relating to the development of the SKIAS2. The problems are in fact broader, also affecting health areas and health-related developments. We're talking about e-health. Today we heard that the systems were once again down and were not brought up fast enough or as expected. Looks like there's some kind of systemic and bigger problem. I believe that, certainly, if these developments were ever planned, they wanted the best, but for some reason these things do not want to develop or progress well. And we have the question that all of a sudden it is that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not have the capacity to plan procurement or the financial resources. I hear the procurements were incompetent, etc. That was our question to find out how these problems would be solved. And it is aimed at the Prime Minister because we see that the problems are so great that the whole government should be involved in the solution. Or, if not all government ministers, at least four ministers, i.e. the Minister for Health and Labour, the Minister for Social Protection, the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology and also the Minister for Finance. We want an answer to what is going to be done to resolve these problems. The references to the past are certainly not adequate to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U58	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U59	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs from the Reform Party Group! First of all, I completely agree with what Maris Lauri said here, the subject is very topical and very, very important. Thank you for your questioning. In general, I can tell you to start by saying that not only has the minister in this area discussed these issues, but the government in general. And I very much hope that this will bring results. But then let's go to your questions. I will begin with a brief comment on the answer to the inquiry. I really hope and sincerely believe that ministers, both present and working in previous governments, have given sufficient attention to this issue, committed and tried to find the best possible solutions. As you mention in the introduction to your inquiry, ignoring problems and questions arising from the development of information technology solutions in the social field, as well as in the public sector, means reducing the availability and becoming uncomfortable for almost every resident of Estonia. I will try to summarise and map these issues, particularly the information technology in the social field, and also to highlight the solutions implemented by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The first question: 'When are you discussing in the government the reasons for the integration of the Ministry of Social Affairs and its administration into IT developments and looking for solutions to the problems that have arisen? ' I will start by giving a small overview of the scope of digital solutions and developments in the whole social field. The Ministry of Social Affairs manages 24 databases and 90 information systems as of 1 January 2017. These information systems and data are also used in everyday work, in addition to the Ministry, for example, by institutions in the administration and administration of the Ministry, the Office of the Commissioner for Equality, the Office of the State Conciliator, local authorities (e.g. the Social Services and Support Data Register), all 1,400 Estonian health care providers, as well as the unemployment fund and the Health Insurance Fund and several other non-governmental institutions. Thus, solving IT developments is one of the continuous tasks and challenges of the government. The establishment of an ICT agency was initiated last year, specifically in order to improve ICT capacity in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. As of 1 January 2017, the TEHIC Centre for Health and Wellbeing Information Systems started work under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The concentration of activities in a single institution will certainly make it possible to bring together best practice, qualified people and improve strategic governance in ICT. The creation of a new institution will give rise to a comprehensive picture of health and social services and services in the field of work. This creates the possibility of reducing duplication, improving data collection, data quality and integrity, and ICT governance. The second question: 'When is the government prepared to allocate additional financial resources to increase the IT capabilities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and its departments? ' The problems of public administration, including social ICT, are not only contained in the financial deficit, I think the representative of the heirs himself said in the introduction to this inquiry, but above all, there are a lack of qualified people, and time resources are often unrealistically planned. The scarcity of these three, money, people and time directly affects the IT development of public administrations and, in this context, the fulfilment of the main tasks of the administration. There are often no qualified and experienced people in preparing contracts, and the lack of time and people has prevented the testing of developed digital solutions. The lack of resources enables priority work to be carried out, but less important remains or, unfortunately, completely unfinished for a long time. The delay or failure to make the necessary developments may force the substance to develop "temporary" solutions, which may not be the best or the most appropriate ones. It is often very difficult for the new cooperation partner to take over the developments that have already been started, but which have become entangled in problems. In order to increase IT capacity, EUR 6254000 was allocated to the national budget strategy for 2018 to 2021. In addition, EUR 200000 was allocated to the Personal Medicine Programme and to the operational and administrative costs of the eHealth Strategy, thus amounting to EUR 6454000. Now, more specifically, the steps taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs to increase IT capabilities. First, as of 1 January 2017, the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, which is responsible for ensuring IT competence and support for projects and IT management, started work in the Ministry's area of administration. Secondly, priority has been set for service development projects. Thirdly, the preparation of e-services orders by the contracting authority has been strengthened and the scope of governance seeks to increase the ICT capacity of the contracting authority. Fourthly, a comprehensive mapping of ICT solutions and challenges and a description of the needs of specific projects has been launched. The third question: 'How do you plan to organise cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance so that problems in the social field can be resolved quickly? ' Additional ICT applications are evaluated by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who is responsible for the relevant field and evaluates all ICT applications in the domain of government through the Ministry of Finance. In the context of ICT, it is also necessary, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, to find a solution to a situation where, together with investment volumes, the necessary resources for maintenance will not grow. The growth in customer needs should also mean an increase in resources. Additional resources often do not cover all the necessary costs. Social funds are available for investments, but they would also be needed for administrative and licensing costs. The Ministry of Social Affairs has launched a number of digital development cooperation formats both within and outside the government area. For example, an implementation plan for the eHealth Strategy has been set up by the Council, which works together a few times a year and coordinates the development of eHealth. Dear heirs, I have answered your questions and I am certainly willing to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U60	Questions. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U61	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I still didn't understand how it's gonna be with the money. On one point, you say that money, like it doesn't need, needs people, and that there's a shortage of time besides money. I recall that in the IT area, this shortage of people often comes from not paying enough wages or not having enough money to hire enough people. You also replied in the last part that there were no additional resources and that is why the systems cannot be kept operational enough. Could there still be additional resources and greater involvement of the private sector in the development of these services?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U62	Thank you. Can we find additional resources? Yeah, I could. Is the private sector involved in developing these services? There is no other way out, of course the private sector must be involved. What's the problem? The problem was, for example, when the procurement was prepared in 2012 and also when the procurement was launched in October 2013. It's not pointing fingers at anyone, but hindsight says that the documentation of this procurement, a specific order, has not been put together well enough. The private sector actually drew attention to this at that time, I think, at the end of 2015. At least one private company said that it cannot go forward because it is not precisely described in this procurement, these conditions that are desired. So the proposals that have been raised on your question, so that, of course, any additional money can be granted, any additional money can always be added, and I think that there is a need to be added at a certain point. But the state must also be able to state clearly what it wants to order. I think that the steps that have been taken, such as the fact that new people have been employed in the SCA, have increased professionalism and capacity. A TECHNOLOGY has also been launched since the beginning of this year. All of this will provide better preparation to minimise such customer apse or not specifically stated wishes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U63	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The question of the members of the Reform Party's group was due to the development problems of the SKIAIS2 and my question is very specific about the SKIAIS2, which was to be completed in July of last year. However, since it was not completed, the six months of the work capacity reform were also postponed in the hope that it would be completed by 1 January 2017. It turned out that 1 January 2017 also proved to be an over-the-counter task. This means that we've put at least a million and a half in the sky1 and that's how much it's gotten more expensive for us, but there's no real certainty that the SkyS will ever be done in the planned way. Maybe some modules can. What happens if the SKAIS2 doesn't get ready? Do we, i.e. the state, have a backup plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U65	Thank you. You're right, both the SKAIS are in business. You are also right in the fact that the SkyIS1 represents an additional burden on the taxpayer. You are also right in the fact that years ago, it was thought that the SKIAIS2 would be implemented much, much earlier. It is now clear that the Skiis2 will not be fully implemented in the coming year, I would dare say even that not in the coming years. What do we know today? We know that certain things have been put into work in the SKIAS2, for example, there has been a maintenance aid during enforcement proceedings. We can say that there is a so-called "one-window" principle in the case of work capacity reform. We are also holding the SKIAIS2 up and developing it further. But the truth is that there are no family or parental benefits, no pensions or social services. Of course, it's a very large job. Is there a plan 2 or a plan B? As far as I know from government level, the Minister for Social Protection has given an overview and communicated with the relevant staff, and the current plan is still such that the development of the SKIAIS2 is progressing. The previous questioner said there was a shortage of money. The truth is that if we take market prices a few years ago, the one-hour cost of information technology, they are drastically different from the 2017 prices. It can be said that 2013/2014. The price of the hour was cheaper than today. Yes, this project has certainly become more expensive than it was five years ago when it was planned. It is now true that both SKAIS1 and SKAIS2 provide services and SKAIS2 have not been implemented in the desired time and will be further developed. Is there any hope that there will be a way out of this situation? Hope is due to these changes, which I have also pointed out. I think that people have become more professional and certainly the fact that they have created such a greater IT competence will contribute here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U66	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Is it true that the two ministers of your government, Mr Ossinovski and Mr Margus Tsahkna, received a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in 2015 pointing to very deep problems of certain types of SKIAIS2, which would have allowed decisions to be made at that time, in which case perhaps fear of payments to people would not have been so great? Have you received further information from them as to why this letter was not responded? And what do you think, if at one point people are not paid, should the relevant ministers in the government also take responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U68	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Point one: you yourself have been very closely involved in this area. Point two: on your question, I understand, there is a desire for the Prime Minister to point the finger at the participation of certain people in recent history, in the recent past. You understand this very well that this area has been run by ministers from at least three political parties. There have been at least three ministers from one political party who have offered their best solution, the Reform Party. No, I don't think I'm gonna have to point the finger at one person, another person or third person: the one who started preparing the procurement, the one who went into the procurement, and so on. I think we need to make every effort today. I'm not gonna point my finger at Tsahkna or Ossinovski today. I think that they have done everything in the best faith to get this SKIAIS2 going and done, just like you, just like those other ministers. In general, I think and believe that from where this work and work has gone, we need to move forward today. This is, of course, a very important lesson for the country. I have already replied once here in the Riigikogu on the subject of the SKIAIS2, I think it was Question Time. Yeah, it's a big lesson for the country. The country has made mistakes, but I think they have not been deliberately misfires. This is a very large IT solution, offering a new solution. So the answer to your question of whether anyone will be responsible here is that the current government cannot begin to point the finger at previous governments, ministers, that mistakes have been made there. I think it's a matter of political culture. I do not support such a political culture to say: they were bad and they must now be accountable. I think that they all worked in the same way to ensure that this SKIAIS2 can be implemented as well and quickly as possible. These plans, which were in 2012, during the preparatory period, have certainly not been implemented, this is clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U69	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Information technology is one of the cross-cutting topics of Estonian society, economy and all areas of life, as well as the leaders of development. As head of government, do you even have an overview of the ability of ministries themselves to address information technology as an issue that is going through, horizontal and basically supporting development as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U71	Thank you. As I said, this whole subject, information technology, is viewed horizontally by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the respective minister. The Prime Minister has access, of course, to this overview I have received. I don't see any questions or problems about that right now. I think that the real challenge for us with this project is that we need to think about whether the state, at the moment we prepared the procurement, had to be frankly stated, the preconditions for putting this procurement together in such a way that no problems would arise. Was there any mismanagement here? Could there have been any better way to drive? I'm sure you could've done better. But if you ask me about the review, it's on MKM. And last time we got this overview, we were preparing a country's budget strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U72	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In response to Urmas Kruus, you said that you would point the finger at no one, and on the previous question, you found that horizontal cooperation in the field of information technology should take place through MKM. But this example, and many other examples, are still very worrying: such thoughtless use of money, which ultimately does not come out in time. Last week we were discussing economic policy, and it was an example that the tax exemption for low-paid people was paid to restructure the Estonian Tax and Customs Board's information system for one year to €7 million. I think it's high time we audited how we do things like this in the country. Has it started anywhere, or should the National Audit Office do so? How's that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U74	Thank you. After all, on the one hand, it is the strength of our country that such pains come out. And I think it's a good thing these pains come out. Why did the system of exemption for low-wage earners change? You know, as a politician, that the reason was that there was a new coalition that said that we wanted to contribute more to people earning low and average wages and that we were going to see an increase in the tax-free minimum. Is there such an audit? In the case of this SKAIS2, for example, the representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who carries information technology, has been here all along. He's always been there. Should the National Audit Office draw attention to this in its activities? If you have to, you definitely should.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U75	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Maris Lauri, on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U76	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Unfortunately, I have to admit that I did not have the absolute certainty that the problems we have in the social field as regards the operation of IT solutions will be solved. The fact is that errors may arise in the design of large IT projects may reveal circumstances. Especially when it comes to complex systems that make things not work as they should. However, if we are dealing with a social sector, it is basically about each of us. Especially when we think about healthcare: digital prescription, digital registration, which is not known for how long, etc. I think that here, however, one could try this move, which is used in very sensitive and very complex areas in the private sector, where I have worked myself, i.e. banking. Perhaps if there is a very important area and problems arise there, all resources will be drawn up to address these problems as quickly and effectively as possible. The temporary workforce will be taken up, so-called financial resources will be pushed up and given much more attention than would normally be expected. I have this feeling that the social sector is a place where, at the moment, there is a need for a special contribution to IT solutions so that these problems can be resolved. I know these things are being wrestled there, and I know what their problems are. But I also know that the people who do this don't feel enough support. They're in a bit of a position to catch and catch, but they just can't. And as I said on my question, money is sometimes needed to hire more workers, to gain even temporarily more competence to solve problems. However, I would suggest that the government put significantly more resources into this area, even for half a year, to pay significantly more attention to it. Complicated problems can sometimes be solved much faster than we think, and here you could really learn from private experience. But the power to do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U77	The members of the Riigikogu have no more wish to negotiate, nor does the Prime Minister. I will conclude the debate on this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U78	The next question is presented by Monika Haukanõm, Andres Herkel, Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarsepp, Krista Aru, Ain Lutsepp and Jüri Adams. Andres Herkel on behalf of the heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U79	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber! The heirs thank young Mr Kevin Kirsi, who is in practice with our group and, in fact, the author of this questioning idea and also the main author of the text. In fact, at one point we saw that the Presidency in the Council of the European Union is approaching, but there has been little talk about the Estonian programme and priorities. In asking this question, of course, we did not foresee that we would turn out to be such a warm-up band for Mr Prime Minister this evening before the debate on a major national issue on the same subject tomorrow. So thank you for clearly bringing this problem to the Riigikogu before the Presidency arrives. What do you say to these questions? These questions may be of a kind that is not usually very reflected in the parade documents relating to the European Union, but they are certainly of interest to people and are important. Perhaps some are also unservingly overlooked when we put our priorities together or fell into the periphery. We are of the opinion that Estonia's and European Union's 2015-2019 policies no longer reflect the latest developments in the European Union, nor do they reflect the problems that have been acutely highlighted in terms of Community governance and the decrease in the number of members of the European Union, or Brexit. We understand that you are saying that the administration of the Brexit negotiations will remain on top of us, and the substantive issues will go aside, but, nevertheless, Estonia must have very clear positions here too. We also see that there is not enough talk about the political weaknesses that are clearly felt in recent years, such as the remoteness of the European Union's institutions from the people, the weakness of the democratic basis of the European Union's decisions and the delay in decision-making processes. In addition, we want to have an explanation of how we can curb fragmentation and mitigate the emergence of a two-speed Europe, and what problems we face with regard to refugees, the refugee crisis and the extreme views and views that are driven by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U80	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U81	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Free Party Group, who have asked such an important question, and not as a mouthpiece. I think that the Estonian Presidency is a very responsible task for all of us, and we must certainly not be wrong in doing so. This is the first unique opportunity for Estonia. To say a few more words as an introduction, I do not think it is at all bad that we are setting the defined objectives of nuances that we want to achieve in six months' time. At the same time, as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, we must not forget what has been the main objective of the European Union since it was formed. The main objective has been to ensure peace. And that is what the European Union has been able to ensure. Today, in mid-May 2017, there is another very important objective: to keep the European Union united, to keep the European Union functioning, to keep the European Union together. I'm sure the President-in-Office will have to contribute to this. Now, however, I come to the specific questions that the honourable Free Party Group has put forward. Thank you for being so busy listening to my answers! First of all, the first question: 'Estonia, as the President, must take forward the issues currently under way in the EU Council. Of course, Brexit is the largest of them. How is it planned to address the Brexit issue under the Estonian Presidency, which it wants to achieve, and how do you see Estonia's role and contribution in the situation where Brexit has been launched at the beginning of our Presidency? ' First of all, before I begin to answer that question, I, like Mr Herkel, thank the intern who prepared this question. Good trainee! To draw attention to such an important subject deserves to be praised and commended without jokes. But now the answer. The most important and substantial work is, according to the government, still the implementation of the objectives of the European Union, which is reflected in our Presidency programme and also reflected in the work programmes of other institutions. Brexit is very important, but it must not overshadow everything else. Our political energy cannot only be spent on the divorce process. All Member States understand the Brexit challenge. The 27 countries have jointly chosen the approach that the UK's exit work should not interfere with the main work of the European Union. Our overall objective as President-in-Office is to serve the 27 Member States and to work closely with the institutions of the European Union, contributing to an agreement with the United Kingdom and to maintaining the unity of the European Union. We do not want Brexit to dominate our Presidency, but we are going to work actively towards our programme objectives. This is what Europeans will expect from us in 2019 to join the ballot boxes. The substantive negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom are likely to begin shortly before the Estonian Presidency. On 15 December, the Heads of State and Government of the European Union agreed on a procedural framework for negotiations with the United Kingdom. According to this, the Presidency will not lead the negotiations. However, we are chairing the Committee of Permanent Representatives of the 27 countries of the European Union, or Coreper, and the General Affairs Council of the 27 countries of the European Union, where, of course, the negotiations on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom will be discussed and, if necessary, the political mandate will be renewed or clarified. Question two. First of all, I would like to return to the introduction of Andres Herkel, the representative of the heirs. This isn't an inquiry for a warm-up band act. This is a very important question, and whether or not tomorrow is OTRK's debate, I will take them separately and I will take the questions of the Free Party with all seriousness. But now the second question: 'The economic and political cooperation of the European Union is in Estonia's interest. "Estonia's European Union policy 2015/2019" gives the impression that the government sees Estonia's strengths only in economic cooperation. Why do you not use the Presidency as an opportunity to reflect the political weaknesses of the EU, such as the remoteness of the EU institutions to the people, the weakness of the democratic basis of EU decisions and the lengthening of decision-making processes? Why are there no ideas for discussions on these issues? ' The democratic foundation of the European Union is strong, and the Union itself is highly decisive. If you don't mind, I'll come back to that thought for a second. In recent years, the European Union has shown decisiveness in addressing the euro crisis and the migration crisis, as well as the unprecedented sanctions imposed on Russia. As you know very well, the main decision-making institutions of the European Union are the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, both elected by the people and expressing the will of the people. The European Parliament has been directly elected, the Council of Ministers is made up of representatives of permanent democratic governments, at the will of the people. However, more can and can be done to involve the public in decision-making processes. In my opinion, Estonia has been very inclusive and the model that works on our national principles of good administration could serve as an example for others. As usual, much can be done with better homework. The most important promises of the Rome Declaration, adopted on 25 March, are to listen together to and respond to the concerns of the citizens of the European Union, as well as to cooperate with national parliaments. But I wanted to come back to my sentence that the democratic foundation of the European Union is strong and that the Union itself is very decisive. In fact, I think that here in the honourable parliament of the Republic of Estonia, all political groups will understand both those who have borne the responsibility of government and those who are currently in opposition, and those who have been in opposition, that it is not a good idea to withdraw from the European Union. These objectives, which some parties may wish to achieve with their cooperation, are not, in my opinion, correct. I wanted to say this very specifically here. The third question: 'Why is there no interest for your government to draw attention to the repression of peripheral Member States, for example, that it is almost impossible for small countries to push any decision through without working with either Germany or France? How does the government feel about the idea of giving national parliaments a greater role in coordinating EU decisions? ' To begin with, there has been a very strong question, the questions are, I would say, maybe too radical. Surely the European Union is not as bad as the Free Party describes in its third question. But my answer. If you take into account the principle of proportional representation, Estonia, as well as other small European countries, are overrepresented in all the European institutions, given their size. Thus, in formal terms alone, Estonia's decision-making processes have a much greater weight than our size could be inferred. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unless it is a requirement of unanimity, there is no formal blocking of decisions either in Germany or in France. Cooperation and taking into account the opinion of small countries are therefore firmly embedded in the European genetic code. For the majority, at least 55% of the Member States and 65% of the population are required. According to the latest Eurobarometer survey, 58% of respondents believe that Estonia, as a country, is being heard in the European Union, and I can confirm that this is the case. At the same time, the government takes a positive view of the idea that national parliaments should play a greater role in the decision-making process of the European Union. It should be noted that in Estonia the Riigikogu has a significant role to play in shaping positions in the decision-making process of the European Union. As you certainly know, the positions expressed by the government only become the positions of Estonia in the Riigikogu. Question 4: "How does the government intend to promote the creation of a truly single market instead of a relatively fragmented EU internal market when, in the light of current trends, there is a two-speed development between EU Member States? ' Estonia does not support a two-speed internal market. For years now, our aim has been to reduce the fragmentation of the European Union's internal market and to create a single market. This objective was also confirmed in "Estonia's European Union policy 2015/2019' and is guided by the Government of the Republic, shaping its views on draft European Union legislation on the internal market. The main bottlenecks where divergent national practices and rules hamper the functioning of the single market relate to the cross-border provision of services and the digital sector. This needs to be addressed at EU level, as more and more services and goods are offered online in the light of technological developments. The Estonian Presidency gives us a good opportunity to take forward discussions on the digital society and other issues that are important for the economy. Question 5: 'What will the Government of the Republic do during the Presidency in order to curb the process of European fragmentation and to mitigate the emergence of a two-speed Europe that has received much talk? ' For the government, one of the main objectives of the Presidency is to preserve and strengthen the unity of the European Union. The concept of a multi-speed Europe has existed for some time and can be illustrated by the eurozone. Of the 28 EU Member States, 19 are members of the euro area and accession is open to all who meet the necessary criteria. Schengen, where six Member States of the European Union do not belong, is also a good example, but they can join it if they meet the relevant criteria. The aforementioned Rome Declaration on the future of the European Union also makes it clear that Member States may move forward, if necessary, with different speeds or intensity, but this must take place within the framework of the Treaties. Each Member State can always join this cooperation. We support this approach and want to be among those who choose to cooperate. I stress: who chooses cooperation, not separation. Decision-making as 27 countries is also the most important factor to avoid fragmentation. The European Union cannot be a political project whose speed of development is dictated by a country which is least interested in development. It is also important to communicate with the people mentioned above in order to explain to them what benefits the European Union gives them and to make every effort not to distance our citizens from the European Union. It is important to understand that peace, prosperity and freedoms are not self-evident. Question 6: 'The EU Member States are faced with first-generation, but also second- and third-generation refugees who are still not integrated into the EU, which, in turn, are increasingly receiving support from the Eurosceptic extreme political movements. Why is there no intention in the Presidency's programme to draw EU countries' attention to integration problems and why is there no initiative to find solutions to these problems? " Integration is not a national issue in most countries, but a local one. At European Union level, integration can only be influenced and supported by a great deal of envy. I believe that all Member States have strongly recognised issues relating to exclusion and radicalisation from there. Question 7: "How does the government view the current EU refugee distribution plan and what conclusions can be drawn from the progress of this process both in the EU as a whole and in Estonia separately? ' Compliance with the decisions of the European Union is undoubtedly one of the sources of frustration, but the European Union will cease to be in this form when joint decisions are selectively enforced. You see, my time has run out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U82	The time for reply is up, but the MPs can help the Prime Minister continue his response. Questions for the Prime Minister. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! As the Presidency, Estonia is largely implementing the issues on the agenda of the Council of the European Union. This means that we do not design the choice of topics ourselves and the Presidency is not the face of Estonia, but the face of Brussels. This is being reproached and it is said that this should be our project, where we can also raise issues that are important to us, more to highlight our own peculiarities, etc., so that the Presidency would still be the face of Estonia. Do you agree with that statement? If so, what would illustrate this? But if you do not agree with it and do not consider it right, what can you do to bring out the face of Estonia more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U84	Thank you. Now it's difficult to answer if I agree. I agree with one argument, but you had two arguments. One argument was that the Presidency is the face of Brussels, and the other was that it must be the face of Estonia. So what's the point? But all right, I actually understand the substance of this question. First of all, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union must be based on the fact that it holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It is not the case that we will be discussing only those issues that are important to Estonia during this six-month period. Can Estonia shape its priorities and express its most important goals towards which it wants to move forward? Of course you can. That is what Estonia has said, after all, by announcing four priority areas that are important to us during the Presidency. We're working on the program, the program will be ready by the end of June. It is clear that the President-in-Office must also take those items on the table of the current President-in-Office, or Malta, on his desk. The Presidency must also take account of the next two Presidents, both Bulgaria and Austria. What contribution does Estonia wish to make during the Presidency? What is our face, things that work well in our country, which could work just as well in the wider European Union? Above all, this is a digital area where Estonia is certainly one of the leaders in the European Union. I sense that quite a number of my colleagues expect progress to be made during the Estonian Presidency in the development of the so-called 'fifth freedom'. I mean the free movement of data. I have been negotiating that a high-level conference on this topic will take place in Tallinn in autumn. So I cannot say that the Presidency has only the face of Brussels or Estonia. What I can tell you is that it has the face of 27 to 28 countries. After all, it has been one of the European Union's thoughts that the differences that we have in the European Union should not separate us. On the contrary, they should enrich us. But it is certainly also Estonia's face that there is an Erasmus programme in the European Union, for example. At the same time, it is the same as the German and French faces.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U85	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I want to ask you about the role of the Riigikogu in the Presidency. I'm a little sorry that Eiki Nestor left her office, we met with the body of elders. But Enn Front was there, too. And then the Prime Minister asked how the Riigikogu worked during this period, and he had a request that Estonia's views through ELAK may not be as visible and clear as it is at any other time. This is more or less the way it was agreed, as well as the fact that there will be factsheets about different things. I also saw in my committee the structure of the document on the subject. It is written in black and white that it is for internal use, but still: Estonia supports Estonia, Estonia does not support it, Estonia agrees that Estonia does not agree. It's kind of like that. This does not mean that the government has a position, but the Riigikogu cannot have one, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U87	No! As I said, Estonia's position does not leave Estonia until the Riigikogu Committee on European Union Affairs has given it its mandate. Now from the meeting of the body of elders, to which you, the good questioner, referred. I humbly asked to speak on this matter as Prime Minister in the Board of Elders. It is true that the general principle has been this: the Presidency does not shape positions. It is also true that, in connection with the Presidency, we have asked the Riigikogu to give an overview of all topics and agendas. But we do not shape Estonia's positions. It certainly cannot be that the government has positions and the Riigikogu does not have positions. No, it can't be! I also said in the Council of Elders that if the Riigikogu or the European Union Affairs Committee wants Estonia to shape its views on this issue, we will, of course, do so. However, common good practice has been such that the Presidency's views are not shaped.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U88	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U89	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! Since I am not part of the Committee on European Union Affairs, I am now almost completely confused with your answers. Can you tell us what political benefits the Estonian people will gain from being the President-in-Office of the European Union? What are the real procedures through which we can influence European policy? Let me give you an example. I understand that during our Presidency, the issue of redistribution must be reviewed as a result of the migration crisis. The deadlines are falling, and now it is a question of whether to continue by the rules that have been in place or whether to find more effective measures to strengthen the European Union's external borders, which is, I think, our wider interest. Can you describe on this example the procedure in which the Estonian people will still benefit from the Presidency?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U90	I don't like it at all when a member of the Riigikogu is insane. But I'm trying to give you an answer. Of course, without screeching, we will try to remain in a peaceful position. It is understandable that if every day the Committee on European Union Affairs does not participate in the discussions, these issues may be a little more distant. First of all, where did I start? I started with why the European Union is important. The European Union is important to ensure what it was created for. And it was created because there would be peace in Europe, so that there would be no war on the surface of the countries that belong to the European Union. I think it's crucial. The European Union has evolved because we can enjoy different freedoms in its internal market, whether it concerns people, capital, services or products. Estonia also wants a fifth freedom, which is the free movement of data. You ask what tangible benefits the people of Estonia will get. I think we want to move forward during the Estonian Presidency on certain digital issues. What could they be? For example, if we go to another European Union country and at some point we need to go to the pharmacy and get some prescription medicine from there, we cannot get it now. This is quite convenient in Estonia because we have a digital recipe, but it does not work in Europe. This could be one of the topics that Estonia wants to move forward in the European Union. What else could be the subject? Setting up a business in another European Union country could, in my opinion, be much easier, much less bureaucratic, much faster, more operational. These data, which have been registered in one Member State, could be used very quickly and automatically in another EU country. Certainly the same digital signature that is common in Estonia, but not particularly in Europe. There are, in fact, other issues, such as the removal of the same geo-blocking. I think that the focus you pointed out on your question is actually correct: what will change specifically for 500 million people, including 1.3 million people in Estonia in the next six months? I think that the general objective must be to make the movement within the European Union more comfortable, more operational, less bureaucratic for the citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U91	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! Thank you very much to the Free Party for asking very well! It is a pleasure to discuss this subject. Tomorrow will also be a long day in the debate on this issue. Secondly, Prime Minister, you're full of shit right now. I can tell you that, in the six months that Estonia holds the Presidency, nothing depends on it in terms of whether the movement of Estonian people in Europe will get better or not. This work is constantly being carried out at Council level, it is constantly being carried out at diplomatic level, and this work is also being carried out by the European Parliament. Thus, whoever holds the Presidency does not shape these views in any way. The same is true of the digital market, which has been developed in a coherent manner even before we become President-in-Office. So you don't have to tie these things together. That spending almost 100 million euros by Estonia on the Presidency brings direct benefits to the people of Estonia, this is bullshit. But my question is rather that we must give something away for every added benefit, and it is always a question of sovereignty. What are the basic principles of the sovereignty of a Member State of the European Union, including Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U93	Well, as a member of the Riigikogu, you can, of course, use such a word and say that this is bullshit. Given your great experience here in the Riigikogu, of course you have this right. I can't blame you for that. But just as an observer, as a representative of the executive authority, I note that I wouldn't quite dare to say so. What scares me at all is that EKRE thinks that Estonia should step out of the European Union, because the influence of EKRE is very great. Now the Reform Party wants to work with you, and I do not know if it wants to leave the European Union. Well, we'll have to look at it. But I think that Estonia can contribute a lot during its Presidency in order to move forward in the development of digital themes. In my opinion, this is Estonia's responsibility. You're saying that everyday communication is part of the working groups of our ambassadors, our staff and other third- and fourth-year-olds. It's true. But the Presidency can certainly focus on this subject even more. Estonia has said that defence is our priority, digital is our priority, Eastern Partnership is our priority. And, of course, in the Presidency of the European Council, in cooperation with the President of the European Council, it is possible to table these issues so that political decisions are taken at the highest level. This is very, very important. Now for independence. As a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, but also as Prime Minister, I certainly do not consider it right that Estonia is about to give up its independence. And that is not the principle of the European Union at all. Estonia is still an independent republic, as our constitution says, and the 27 other countries are independent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U94	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U95	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said that the opinion of the government will only become the opinion of the state after discussion in the Riigikogu. Do you have any information on how much Riigikogu has changed the government's opinion? Has the Riigikogu ever changed this, or has all the government's opinions been written down as the opinion of the Estonian state? I am thinking here about the Euro Directives and all the other European decisions that the Riigikogu is discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U96	I don't think there's too many of these cases. I myself have also been a member of the European Union Affairs Commission, not in XIII's composition, but in the past, in XII's composition, and I must say that it has occurred that the European Union Commission is making its own improvements or improvements to Estonian positions. So there has been.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U97	Honourable Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Herkel, with regard to the rules that we have on this item, you have the right to speak first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister, we thank you for these answers. Very briefly, first of all, about the last subject of the dialogue that was discussed here during the question-and-answers. It is a bit of a pity that Estonia is mainly known in Europe as a digital developer. But it's a good thing it is, it's a big plus, of course. But there could be more of these strong messages. At the same time, it is very unfortunate that the coalition itself has gone into this area by reducing e-elections. In our previous inquiry, we addressed these problems, which indicate that Estonia may not have done the best with the digital field, even at government level. Now, I think that all of us, and this certainly also concerns tomorrow's debate, but especially during the Presidency, it is the task of the Prime Minister to bring the European Union closer to the people as possible in national activities so that its operation is better understood. This is an opportunity that the Presidency gives us, among other things, and we must make the most of it as representatives of the people. I hope that we will be able to overcome this certain failure on Parliament's role during the Presidency in the Committee on European Union Affairs. It must not be the impression that Parliament will not deal with the problems in the meantime. Increasing the role of national parliaments, as well as increasing the role of the European Parliament, should be one of our main objectives, and certainly more so during our Presidency. We certainly want to see greater efficiency in the case of the European Union, on the one hand, and an effective culture of agreement on the other. Perhaps these objectives are not always best aligned with each other, but there is certainly one block of issues that the Free Party wishes to emphasise in particular in the key to bringing citizens closer and reducing alienation, which does not sound very clearly in the priorities of our Presidency. More transparency, more citizen-centred! How to actually achieve that the European Commission acts on the basis of democratic powers is a question of questions. I think that one of the origins of alienation is that the Commission's work is highly expert-centred and, in fact, there are no direct democratic powers at this level. In Estonia, we have talked a lot about the right to petition and that ignoring it by the government has led to a number of problems. I would like to remind you here that at European Union level there is such a thing as a democratic initiative with one million signatures. Unfortunately, it doesn't work very well. So there's a whole bunch of problems here. Firstly, the functioning of the European Union is not understandable to people, and people also do not understand how they can intervene in this at all. This is one very big point of view and there is a great deal of educational work to be done here, but obviously solutions must also be sought where people would feel more involved. Now, that's a little short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U99	The negotiations will continue with Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U100	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Prime Minister! To start with, of course, I use exactly the words I want and the way I like it. I don't think the word 'bummer' is uncensoring or insulting when something's bullshit, then it's bullshit. What kind of bullshit are we talking about right now? As I said when I asked my question, it sucks if we directly link the benefits to the people by being formally a Presidency that manages the work of the European Union over a period of six months. Merging these two things together is bullshit. It's demagogy, and it's not true. We can interpret the current Maltese Presidency in the same way. One of Malta's priorities has been finding a solution to the migration crisis, the reform of the Dublin system. Unfortunately, whether or not the solution comes to this is not dependent on whether the Presidency is Malta, Germany, Estonia or Bulgaria. It doesn't matter in any way. So when I say it's bullshit, it's bullshit. And to say that a member of the Riigikogu uses expressions that are not suitable for the Prime Minister as an observer, I don't think it's appropriate if the Prime Minister demagogically combines things that are not binding together. Secondly, Estonia's priorities during the Presidency. It is true that Estonia can, of course, raise issues that are more important to us: security, neighbourhood policy, the Eastern Partnership, as well as finding a solution to the migration crisis. However, the fact is that 95% of the six-month work is due to what has been on the table of the previous Presidency and what we must take over as'mandatory'. They're not up to us. This raises the question of whether it is worth EUR 100 million if we can shape the work of the Presidency by 5%. I don't think it's worth it. Easy! Unfortunately, since we have to do this, we will, that's all we have left. Third thing. I won't accept it if the Prime Minister is lying. It is wrong that one party in this Parliament, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, has said that we must leave the European Union. If it's inappropriate for you to hear the word 'bummer' as an observer, it's inappropriate for me if the Prime Minister directly distributes false facts. Yes, we have said that we believe that there is a problem in the principle of sovereignty. In our view, the problem is that the European Union has lost its original face to this, too, is why the European Union was created in the first place. It is no longer merely fulfilling the role of trying to prevent and develop economic cooperation, to promote labour mobility and the freedom to conduct a business. It is a very clearly federalising Union that is shaping nearly two thirds of national Parliaments' work. And that's where we see the problem. This is a substantive problem that needs to be addressed, and we are the only ones who do it. However, this does not mean that Estonia needs to step out immediately. We argue that the mandate granted in 2003 has been exhausted. We see a problem in the fact that in 2012 the Supreme Court said that Estonia's accession to the European Stability Mechanism, where we guaranteed EUR 1.3 billion of loans, is likely to run counter to the mandate on the basis of which we joined the European Union. That's a problem for us. The problem for us is that there are certain Member States that are imposing on other countries, including Estonia, that Estonia must agree to reform the Dublin system. And that, in turn, would mean that the mandate, or the mandate, would be exceeded. This is what we really pay attention to, whether it pleases or not, but it does not mean that you have to lie. As far as independence is concerned, of course, I also think that Estonia is an independent state, but that the Estonian Government, including the Prime Minister, is afraid to use this independence, as he has now seen. If Estonia is independent according to the Constitution, as Mr Ratas said, then according to the Estonian Constitution, Eesti Pank should organise the circulation of money in the Republic of Estonia. This point is still valid. Does it really work? No, it does not work, these things are being organised by the European Central Bank. To talk about independence so confidently in the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, it is again twilighting, demagogy. When we talk about sovereignty, a sovereign state should also organise work at its borders. On our southern border, Estonia does not do this because, by joining the Schengen visa space, we have committed not to apply border controls. And if we wanted to do so, we should have a mandate from the European Commission, but the European Commission decided that border control at certain borders, such as the borders between Norway, Denmark and Germany, must be completed by the end of October this year at the latest. So talking about the principle of sovereignty in the context of border controls is once again a very slippery path. How much sovereignty is there? Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U101	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U102	In the next six months, when we are holding the presidency, one of the problems and pressures of the Estonian government will certainly be precisely solving the migration crisis and reforming this system. I am very afraid of the position that the Estonian Government is shaping, because it does not really want to shape the position; it has been good practice that the Presidency is neutral. You know, I don't really care about these good practices. I don't care what another country has done. I am interested in how the interests of our country are most protected against EUR 100 million. That's my interest. And it is not Estonia's interest to reform the Dublin system so that we take away responsibility from countries that have deliberately been corridors for migrants to other countries. I am talking about Greece and Italy, who have been interested in getting as many people as possible out of their country over the last two and a half years. It is not responsible and it is not appropriate for our allies, who they should be to us in theory. Talking about neutrality here is still very overdoing and humble. I would argue that the Estonian Presidency must survive. Yes, we have to deal with this, but there are also issues where we cannot accept neutrality, but we have to state our position very clearly, because it is in the interests of our country. I think spending EUR 100 million on this is worth it. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, the strength for you and for the meeting in the Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U103	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U104	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Prime Minister! I was listening in the office using electronic aids that were happening in the hall, and at some point I was fanging. And I was fancied, to be honest, at the moment when we started talking about how good we are in the digital field and how we are almost the direction indicators for the whole world. How everyone's stupid except us, no one else knows how to organize the digital sector. We are introducing a digital prescription in Europe! People, do you understand the difference between the size categories? How do you plan to introduce a digital prescription in America with 300 million inhabitants, when there are so many places in America today where even mail doesn't move differently than on a horse? Take the digital recipe there, show me these technical solutions! Or Germany, with 83 million inhabitants, introduce a digital recipe as in Estonia, with 1.3 million inhabitants, 45,000 square kilometres and a relatively well-developed infrastructure! Let's not brag and brag about it with digital talk! We're not the road signs! We have taken over the whole digital field from much more developed countries in this area: America, the leading European countries. There's big development centers. Where is Estonia Silicon Valley? Show me where the Estonian Silicon Valley is, where all these new, innovative technological solutions come from! I don't know where the Estonian Silicon Valley is. And yet we are saying that we are benchmarks in Europe and in the whole world. No, it's not! We are common users of developments in this area, consumers. We have done well, there is no doubt about that. But it's also because we're so small. That's one. Secondly, it is extremely misleading and extremely long and harmful results for our people and our country if we go against the Presidency in a position that we must not defend our interests. That we are neutral and that we must do everything only in the interests of Europe. What is European interest? Who's gonna define it? Is the interest of Portugal, the interest of Greece, the interest of Finland and the interest of Malta exactly the same as that of Estonia? No, it's not! Is the interest of German corporations the same as that of Estonian small enterprises? No, it's not! No country is so idiotic that it doesn't defend its interests. If Estonia is such an idiotic country, it's just embarrassing. I'm sorry again for the harsh use of words. But it is. Of course, we cannot stand guard when the Germans, the French and someone else are pushing through decisions that, in the long run, are very damaging to us and which it is very, very difficult for the next governments to reverse. It is important to think about what distinguishes the policies of large countries from those of small countries. This is a very remarkable thing, put it all behind you, respected coalition politicians! This is that there are constant attempts to anticipate several steps ahead. Policies are planned with a long-term perspective: 50 years, 100 years, if that is possible, not six months, for the Presidency. This must not be done, under no circumstances will our group approve of it and will go into the government whenever possible if the government takes such a position. Please take that into account! And thirdly, it is now such a correction for mistakes. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U105	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U106	In Estonia, it is not understood at government level that the mandate given by the Estonian people when entering the European Union is now clearly exhausted and exhausted not because of Brexit, but because 14 years have passed in the meantime. And during this 14 years Europe has changed, the world has changed, the security environment has changed, Estonia has changed. But they are still trying to operate on the basis of the understanding that the Estonian people finally gave a mandate for everything: the single currency, the reception of refugees, the elimination of sovereignty, God knows what else. We are doing all this because in 2003 the Estonian people gave a mandate to do so. I didn't give you a mandate! Nobody asked for a mandate! No one asked for a mandate to decide whether we could accept quota refugees or whether we had to pay off Greek debts. This mandate was not asked, and this mandate was not given! However, if we say now that 14 years later, the situation that has changed must be discussed honestly with the people, then we are Putin's henchmen and we want to step out of the European Union. No, I don't! We want an honest debate on the mandate, and six months of Presidency time will, in my opinion, provide an excellent opportunity for this. These are the places that I wanted to pay attention to and that fanged me when I listened to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U107	The debate will continue with the Prime Minister, who will take the opportunity to speak again. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U108	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the United States, we really do not need to introduce a digital prescription, it is outside the European Union. But Mr Jaak Madison's invitation to meet in the Committee on European Union Affairs is very nice. I was on this committee today, introducing my speech tomorrow. I guess you guys had some business to do. Unfortunately, I didn't see you there today. But in the future, when I come, I hope you will also be there in the Commission and will be there fulfilling your responsibilities. In my opinion, the focus of the European Union must bring to all 500 million people, including the people of Estonia, a better, safer, safer life and the future, is right. The latest figures show that the economy has grown in all the countries of the European Union. It's a little, but it's grown. We also see that in recent years very many jobs have been created in the European Union. All of this is actually about the fact that life has also moved on in Estonia. Apparently, previous speakers do not want to admit that all that the European Union has given to the Estonian state over the last 13 years is a very high value. This is the value space that we have always wanted to belong to culturally. This is a value area based on the principles that there is no war on the Member States of the European Union and that these countries, including Estonia, can further develop their economies at a peaceful pace. It's a very high value. The security aspect is very important; the peace aspect is very important. When an ambassador in the Estonian Riigikogu says that there is nothing the Presidency can do, everything is planned in advance, I am sorry, but he simply does not have enough information. The chairman can do quite a lot. The Presidency can make a great contribution, for example, in the meetings of the European Council, in policy-making, in formulating opinions, in bringing issues to the table. That's a lot! I've personally experienced this in the last five months, and I know what I'm talking about. Now, I think it is such a fundamental question that if there really is a party that wants to make a new referendum, whether Estonia should belong to the European Union or not belong to the European Union, then it must be boldly said. This is not a question of the Estonian Presidency, but it is very important as an internal policy issue. Our residents have supported 70% of Estonia's membership of the European Union. When you say that it may need to be changed, you must state very specifically why it needs to be changed and how it needs to be changed. You don't have to hover on this. In any case, Estonia has been a country that wishes to be at the heart of Europe over the last 13 years. Ten days ago, the government decided that we would join PESCO in the European Union, which means stronger and closer cooperation in the field of defence. Last week we decided at government level: Estonia will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office to prevent money laundering. These are all, I think, very important issues also in the opinion of our citizens. Finally. I sincerely thank the speakers for raising this very important issue. I look forward to tomorrow's very interesting debate here in the Riigikogu. Of course, all this needs to be seriously discussed. And the more we can read to our citizens the good things that the European Union has given to Estonia, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U109	Eerik-Niles Kross, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U110	I wanted to make one comment, because the Prime Minister here named the Reform Party. There's no one else in the hall, so I'd be happy to answer that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U111	It is possible to speak in two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U112	The Prime Minister expressed his concern that the Reform Party might somehow start to deviate from the European Union's course, as we consider it possible to make a coalition with the EKRE. I will first defend the EKRE: indeed, as Madison said, they have not said that they would like to leave the European Union. As far as the Reform Party is concerned, of course, every government that the Reform Party is doing can only be on the course of the European Union. The Prime Minister defended the European Union and Estonia's European trends very nicely, but I remind him that it was his party who once voted against joining the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U113	Honourable Riigikogu, I consider inquiry 353 answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U114	The fourth item is the inquiry submitted on 4 April by the members of the Riigikogu, Monika Haukanõmme, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Andres Herkel, Ain Lutsep and Artur Talvik concerning the implementation of the project SAIS2. It's number 344. On behalf of the heirs, Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U115	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The inquiry submitted by the Free Party concerns the implementation and development of the SKAIS2. We have already touched on this subject today, the second question that the members of the Riigikogu Reform Party submitted to the Prime Minister, focused on the wider problems of digital development. In order to be more generally lonely now, our inquiry has focused very specifically on one IT development, or SKAIS, the Information System of the Social Insurance Board. It is known that the SKAIS system has lived away from its own time has essentially been amortised and has not long been able to carry out all the tasks assigned to the Social Insurance Board, as we also place these tasks in the Riigikogu. SKAIS1, the old information system, works on its own capabilities and, unfortunately, forces officials to do a lot of so-called manual work. SKAIS2 is probably one of the largest recent IT development projects with an initial budget of 7.1 million euros planned. We started developing the SKIAIS2 already in 2012, and ideally it should have been completed by 1 July last year. Due to the delays in development and the abandonment of one producer, the deadline for completion was extended to January this year. We were all hoping that the SKIAIS2 would finally be finished. Unfortunately, we were too optimistic, the system still is not working. The fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications actually drew the Ministry of Social Affairs' attention already in 2015 to the fact that there were too many risks involved in this project and also expressed concern that the deadlines set were not realistic. However, the Ministry of Social Affairs decided to start implementing the project because such a political compulsion was quite strong. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu has been keeping a very close eye on the development of the SKIAIS2 since last summer. We have dealt with this three times. In the Commission, ministerial officials have repeatedly stressed that everything is being done to make the project a success. That's a priority. It is also prepared to prevent the development of all of the SKAIS2. Today it is known that it is not ready and that the country has incurred an additional cost of at least EUR 1.5 million. We are not sure about this, as the Prime Minister said in replying to another inquiry, whether this project will be completed next year or the year after, and what volume we are talking about. The confusion and inability to manage the project resulting from the creation of the SKIAIS2 has led to a situation where an information system providing essential services from the point of view of the country and of each citizen is in trouble. We can no longer even make competent decisions on the assessment of working capacity, because the data between different institutions, such as the Social Insurance Board and the unemployment fund, does not move enough. So there are a large number of problems that have already arisen and may yet be caused by the lack of completion of the SKIAS2. In order to learn a little more about the subject, we have put six questions to the Minister for Social Protection, which we look forward to providing meaningful answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U116	These answers come to the speaker's desk with Minister for Social Protection Kaia Iva. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U117	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for asking me this question, which allows me to take a mid-term review of this really big project. A word of introduction to what this project involves. The inquisitor spoke about the general focus, but I'll give you some background information about this project, which maybe the listener doesn't know. The Social Insurance Institution provides services for around 700000 people. This project will certainly affect all these people, and nearly a quarter of the state budget will then be distributed as money or services to people. So this is a very big undertaking. SKAIS1, which was also mentioned here, was introduced 17 years ago and indeed, its time is over. The preparation of the new system started in 2012, the preparation of the procurement process was completed in 2013 and the conclusion of the framework agreement in 2014. Now, however, there are already specific questions. 'How much has it cost to develop the old SKAIS in order to survive in any way until the completion of the SKAIS2 and to pay out the necessary pensions and benefits? 'SKAIS1 development has taken about EUR 1131240, of which two systems, i.e. SKAIS1 and SKAIS2 data exchange services, are EUR 250656, the central innovations in national information systems, which are not dependent on this project, but what needs to be done in any case in order for the system to work has cost EUR 148416. There are also legislative changes that have been adopted by the state and which need to be implemented. As they cannot be done in SKIAIS2, they have been developed in SKIAIS1, and the cost of these works is EUR 732168. These are the legislative changes that were not yet known when the original contract was awarded, when the tender was announced. Now, there was a question of development costs, but I am just saying that there is also an administrative cost, which is not a development cost, but what is a cost. The annual administrative cost of SKAIS1 is EUR 368400, so that every additional year will entail such additional costs. And there are also some developments in the SKIAIS2 that affect the SKIAIS1 so that they can be maintained in parallel. The second question: 'How much and what funds have been paid for the creation of the SkyIS2, and to what extent are further expenditure planned and from what sources are these costs to be covered? 'SKAIS2 development works cost EUR 3741402, of which EUR 1259975 from the Social Fund and EUR 2481427 from the state budget. The commitments have been made, i.e., contracts have already been signed for an amount of EUR 2884151, of which the Social Fund has money of EUR 1822664 and the state budget funds of EUR 1061487. Now, the planned volume of development work for the SKAIS2 project in 2017 to 2020 is 4851000 euros. This amount shall be distributed as follows: Firstly, the work already foreseen in the Framework Agreement for the project, for which no contracts have yet been awarded, amounts to EUR 1356000. It includes aids, special care, rehabilitation, data exchange. Secondly, the new needs of the SKAIS2 regarding legislative changes leading to a change in the information system which was not known when the SKAIS2 project was implemented. This amount is EUR 1938000. This includes, for example, changes in income tax, family benefits, various pension changes, etc. Thirdly, the new development needs of the SKAIS2 in view of the possibility of improving the work processes or services from the customer's point of view. To this end, an amount of EUR 1557000 is foreseen. These are the work that was not included in the procurement in 2013, but which is necessary for the development of the organisation and services of the SCA. This includes changes to services that do not result from legislation but are necessary for the customer or the user of the system, as well as those necessary to complete the data exchange in order to be able to cooperate with the SKIAIS1. The budget is currently not covered by this need of EUR 3495000. In total, the development costs of the SKAIS2 project so far, together with all the new developments stemming from the new laws, I am thinking of the total of 11.47 million for the years 2014 to 2020. The estimated costs have been calculated on the basis of the current hourly prices of the contract. The third question: 'Which IT applications were completed on time by 1 January 2017? ' From 2 January 2017, which was a working day, the SKAIS2 information system works with data link services. Firstly, I mention maintenance services, including the provision of maintenance payments and, in cooperation with bailiffs, the provision of new maintenance assistance during enforcement proceedings. Secondly, the identification of a disabled person's disability, the award of social benefits for a disabled person, the issuing of a personal card, the receipt of joint applications in the context of the capacity reform, the electronic exchange of data with the unemployment fund. Thirdly, there are the general basic components of the IT solution, the accounting and financial accounting system through which grants are paid out, the exchange of data with other registers and the general components of the processes. And fourth, I call the exchange of data with the unemployment fund related to the disability allowance. Question 4: 'When is the completion of the SKAIS2 planned in full, where all 25 Social Insurance Boards use the new and modern information system? ' The transition of the SKA processes to the new information system is planned to be completed in 2020. Until then, some of the work processes are based on the SKAIS1 but a gradual shift to the SKAIS2. It should be taken into account that all legislative changes also affect the information system. Currently, there are more than 140 legislations relating to SKIAIS2. And what are the relevant time-limits for service-by-service? This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures coming under this item, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts, not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts, not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under ad hoc service contracts. The fifth question is whether and to what extent the Ministry has planned to charge Tieto, the developer of the SKAIS2, to the State's additional costs. In December 2016, a fine of EUR 180000 has been imposed on the developer. In accordance with the agreements concluded and pursuant to the Law of Obligations Act, the Ministry has the right, in addition to the contractual penalty, to claim from the developer the damage caused by the delay in the development work. At the moment, we are focusing on the completion of the works on the basis of the contracts concluded, and then we will assess the damage caused by the work that has not been carried out and that has not been carried out. Question 6: "What is the backup plan for the Ministry if the SKAIS2 project fails? Is there a risk diversification plan? 'SKAIS2 project risks have been consistently assessed and grounded. In order to manage the risks, the Ministry decided in 2016 to set priorities for the development of services and to gradually introduce new software. In the first phase, the aim is to focus on maintenance assistance and work capacity reform, and in the second phase, to make the necessary improvements in the SKIAIS1 so that the SKIAIS2 can continue to provide services from this year. The reason was the risk that the developer would not be able to complete the development by the deadline. That's what's happened. Thirdly, it has been necessary to strengthen the governance of the SKIAIS2 contracting entity. The services of the SCA are provided by the old and new information system together. Every service will work in the SKIAIS1 until it can be deployed in the SKIAIS2. In SKAIS2 public procurement, the "keys in hand" service was obtained, where the developer's task was not only to develop the information systems, project management, quality management, risk management, etc. The contracting authority has now taken over the project from the developer of the development process and risk management. In 2016, SAIS2 software architecture audits were commissioned to ensure a reasonable architecture of such a large and complex system and to monitor the quality of development work consistently. The Social Insurance Institution reorganized the governance structure, including the creation of teams to describe the specific needs of services. On 1 January of this year, the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, or TEHIC, started work under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, ensuring the IT competence and support of the project and the technical management of the project in the field of IT since 1 July of this year. The questions have been answered briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U118	Monika Haukamm submits the first question to the addressee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will first of all ask you about the new centre of information systems, i.e. the TECHNIQUE or the TECHNIQUE. Pretty good hopes will probably be given to the new centre to increase the competence to manage this project. When the Prime Minister replied to the Reform Party's question, he said that the problem was not a question of money, but, above all, a lack of qualified people and that we sometimes adequately appreciate our ability to carry out these processes. How do you assess the capacity of this TECHNOLOGY to ensure that we achieve the combined effect of these factors on money, people and time by 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U120	I dare say we still have a shortage of resources in all parts of the world. Can't say there's enough money. The requests for funding from the state budget are still not all approved, and we will continue to negotiate on this. But the TEAC, the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, is now operational. Its head is Katrin Reinhold, former Deputy Director General of the National Information System Agency, who has now been able to complete his team. This improvement of quality and pooling of competences is certainly crucial because, as has been seen in the preparation of this project, the big issues have come from the fact that there has not been sufficient competence, although the Ministry has been preparing this project all along in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, it has not been alone. But, of course, this kind of pooling of competences and finding new extra power is very important. At the moment, it is planned that the TECHNIQUE will continue to take control of this and, from 1 July, it should be the driving force behind all these processes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U121	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U122	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I have two questions. You pointed out the administrative cost of the SKIAIS1, but what is the administrative cost of the SKIAIS2, we missed that figure. And the second question is: what is your specific message to those people who have now suffered because of shortcomings in the implementation of the information system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U123	Administrative costs are more or less the same for SKAIS1 and SKAIS2, just under EUR 400000. The problem is that, at a time when they work together, both systems require costs. But the cost of two systems is roughly the same. So far, the fact that people have not received one or another decision quickly enough has hindered the elimination of errors in the operation of the information system, or even during the testing period. This is how employees have had to do additional work in either the SKA or the unemployment fund, if necessary manual work. It is now evident that fault points have been found and removed in the run-up system parts. But, of course, any mistake that causes unpleasantness or even great problems to a person is regrettable. I hope there's less and less of them, and maybe we can get to zero sometime.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U124	Minister, there are no further questions for you right now. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good Minister, thank you for your explanations. The picture got a little bit clearer, the numbers were very specific and also very eloquent. At the same time, we suggested that the project could cost 8.6 million. It will actually cost EUR 11.5 million by 2020, according to our latest knowledge. What are we talking about here today? Are we only talking about the difficulties of developing one of Estonia's biggest and very important information systems of recent times or about the capacity of the state or the failure to manage and manage large-scale projects in cooperation with ministries? Unfortunately, SKAIS2 is just an unfortunate example of the fact that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is responsible for the development of IT projects, but the Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for this project and the cooperation between the two has not been very smooth. This may also be one reason why not everything has gone the way we wanted and hoped for in our hearts. It is undoubtedly extremely regrettable that the development project, which has already started in 2012 and had to be completed in July last year, has not materialised. The objectives set, such as optimising the internal processes of the SCA, increasing their quality and automation, and jumping in the quality of the services provided to the customer, including a customer-friendly self-service portal to encourage customer self-use, have not been achieved. This gives rise to the desire to ask from time to time who is still responsible for the serious financial damage suffered by the state as a result of the inability to manage. The delay and accumulation of problems in the SKIAIS2 have already required a minimum of EUR one and a half million. Although the success of the project has been in doubt since 2015, the Ministry did not pay any attention to it in substance. Like a horse with eye flaps, a horse was rushed forward without paying attention to the abyss and reefs that were ambushing. And obviously there is a reason here not only for the officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs or that we do not have enough competent people. Actually, I think we need to look at the leadership. Evidently, the seriousness of the problem was not understood, for political compulsion sometimes weighed up his senses. From time to time, it really felt like repeating it like a mantra, that it had to be done, and that's what we're going to do. In certain circumstances, such faith in what we do is very encouraging and will certainly carry on. That's what's gonna help you get what you want. But special wisdom is shown by our understanding at some point and admitting that a new, more affordable goal and deadline must be set. The Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, as I have already mentioned in the introduction, has been keeping a close eye on the developments of the SKIAIS. This issue has been on our table several times, especially with regard to all the drafts that have placed new tasks on the new skyis2 that will be created. However, we have been so attentive precisely because we have lacked confidence that the system will be completed. Unfortunately, we were also a little naive in the Commission, and we believed that all these changes could be made. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U126	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U127	We hoped that the developments would be completed in the near future, but today we heard from the Minister that the new deadline would be 2020. And maybe it's smart to do it so slowly, we realize that you can't get anywhere in a hurry. Of course, the first version of the SKAIS and the version that still serves us will live on for a certain time, especially if we spend extra money on it. After all, the main thing is that pension benefits and benefits can all be paid out in time. But it would have been very honest to talk to myself and others about problems earlier, not just here today. Then we would not have assigned new tasks to SKIAIS2 in the Riigikogu. However, apart from the financial extra cost of development at the initial cost of 7.1 million euros, we have reached 11.4 million euros by 2020; we also need to understand and draw attention to what this delay is really costing. Because in both the SKA and the unemployment fund officials, as the Minister said, have to do a lot of so-called manual work by entering data and searching the method left behind in time, running between institutions figuratively speaking, the briefcase with the data in its arm. That, too, is actually the cost of money. Is this an action for Estonia as an e-governance? We postponed the beginning of the employment capacity reform for six months. Fortunately, at least important changes in terms of work capacity reform have been made so that we can start a single door policy, so that the data can move between the two institutions, the unemployment fund and the SKA, and hopefully this system will function reasonably by now. Nothing, we are still keeping an eye on the developments in the SKIAIS2 and we hope that the new Health and Wellbeing Information System Centre, established at the Ministry of Social Affairs on 1 January, will be more able and better able to manage the development of this large and very important state of Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U128	Since there are no more requests to speak, I will conclude the negotiations. Minister Kaia Iva has responded to Question 344.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U129	Fifth item: Enquiry No 351 on the future of social protection submitted on 18 April by members of the Riigikogu Monika Haukanõmme, Artur Talvik, Ain Lutsep, Andres Herkel, Krista Aru, Külmiki Kübarsep, Andres Ammas and Jüri Adams. I'm offering a microphone for Monika Haukanõmme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U130	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 18 April, on behalf of the representatives of the Free Party, we submitted an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Ivala, in order to discuss the future of social protection a little more broadly. I think that all members of the Riigikogu and, more generally, the general public are aware that a number of problems have recently emerged in the area of social protection. The most important of these are the financing and queues of special care, the end of the social rehabilitation service's money already in the first month of the year, the stretching of the assessment of working capacity at the unemployment fund and the stretching of the assessment of the degree of disability at the Social Insurance Board. Problems have also emerged in the area of aids, which, although mostly concern the Health Insurance Fund, are not the responsibility of Minister Kaia Iva, but certainly also relate to social protection. The big problems, as we understand from the previous question, are with the development of the SKAIS2. Our constitution says that people with disabilities are under the special care and protection of the state and local government. The number of problems that have been revealed in recent months has led us to ask whether this is really the case and how we can protect those people who should be under our special attention and care. A large number of social protection concerns indicate that certain necessary decisions may have been made at some point. Perhaps these decisions have been abandoned a long time ago. It has even been said that the area of social protection has never been a priority in Estonia and that it is like a patchwork that we are always trying to patch from one place to another and from another. But patching won't help us anymore, we need a new blanket. Perhaps this indecisiveness has led to a series of unreasonable costs, which were also mentioned in the previous inquiry. Maybe everything could have been better done. If the social protection information system had been better developed and managed, perhaps there would have been more money to provide rehabilitation services for children, for example, and 400 children would not have been in line, waiting for the help they need now and now, not in a year's time. At present, it is clearly no longer helpful to make minor changes. It is necessary to take substantially longer steps and to look for solutions to put an end to this situation, which at times has become a crisis. It is very important to restore people's faith in their country and to ensure that the necessary support is not lost because of the failure or inadequacy of the country. We were prompted to make an inquiry into a failed interview by a minister, which may also have been the result of a slightly misinterpreted response by a journalist. And in order for the Minister to give us a thorough overview of the state of affairs and to present his vision of the future, which the Free Party Group thinks he has, we have put forward four questions. Perhaps he gives us the hope that things will get better and not worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U131	Ms Kaia Iva, Minister for Social Protection, will answer the questions asked by the heirs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U132	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for asking me this question. Indeed, all opportunities to provide information directly, online and without cuts are welcome. Now maybe a little reference that links the previous point to that point. When the questioner here spoke about the money spent on the SKIAS and also suggested that, if everything had been better managed, it would have been possible to use less spent money for other services, I would say that, of course, a better-prepared project would have been necessary. But if you look at the quotes that were made to SKAIS2, the next one was 13 million. I guess that was the real price. But now to that question. First of all, I would like to draw attention to a problem that the inquisitors may have understood. In particular, if there is an interest in getting an overview of the positions of the Minister and the Ministry, it is worth monitoring various information channels. For example, I suggest that television live broadcasts, where there is all the talk, are also used as a source of information, so it is probably possible to get a better overview of what the Minister knows and talks about and what he does not. But in fact, we all have our common concerns and see what the situation is with them. The first question: 'Please explain whether and what is the Ministry's comprehensive plan for improving the situation! ' I am talking about the issues that are in my area, because those that remain in the area of the Minister for Health and Labour, I cannot deal with here. First of all, special care. I have already responded thoroughly to these questions and therefore I will not stop at it for very long. However, I note that a new call for proposals for the European Regional Development Fund for the reorganisation and creation of new services is opening up. We will certainly pay more attention to the creation of lighter service places in this call for proposals, such as day care and community services, and we will also develop forms of work, for example, in order to provide an interval service. This will directly reduce the care burden for families. And we will certainly be more flexible in terms of conditions. At the end of May, the World Bank Task Force will put forward proposals to reduce the maintenance burden and we will certainly take them into account. I'm going to talk a little bit more about social rehabilitation, which has been orbited by greater interest. First of all, I would like to stress that the money for the provision of the social rehabilitation service did not run out, as has been mistakenly claimed from time to time. During the first two months of this year, there was a situation where the total number of people targeted for the service last year and the total number of people targeted for the service in the new year had already been booked. This means that new applicants had to be put in line but did not stop providing the service. The queues for rehabilitation services are not for the first time. On the contrary, the current order, which at April was 800 people, is significantly smaller than the previous one. Between 2010 and 2015, the number of people in the queue was 7,000 to 11,000. For the first time, the queues were eliminated last year through an ex ante evaluation and a one-off additional money. However, one-off funding is not sustainable for social services, so the problem is still in the right basic funding. Changes within the system started earlier and these changes to the Social Welfare Act entered into force in 2016. I would point out that § 64 of the Act provides that, in the event of a shortage of budgetary resources, those wishing to receive a rehabilitation service are to be counted in a queue which may be up to one year. In the past, the queues were longer, but this amendment at least limited its length. And that was the will of the Riigikogu. Pursuant to the regulations in the Act, the SKA also informed customers at the beginning of the year. But clearly, we are not satisfied with this situation. We consider it a priority for children to receive the necessary service immediately, but also for adults to be provided with assistance as quickly and effectively as possible. At the same time, I stress: we do not assume that there will never be a queue. There are queues, but our interest is that they should be kept to a minimum. It is necessary to remove the use of inefficient services, such as spa-like passive services, and to reduce excessive planning and expenditure on ancillary activities. It is also important to have quality and control over the actual volume of services provided, and it must also be effective. At the same time, more attention needs to be paid to the provision of support services in the education system, rehabilitation services in the unemployment fund and the medical system, as they all form a single whole. This year, on the basis of the first quarter's expenditure, we have planned budget changes that will enable new customers to be redirected to the service. As of Friday, there were three children under 16 in the order of rehabilitation. They have not simply turned to themselves, they have the opportunity to receive immediate assistance, but they themselves have not returned to the SKA. There are 557 adults. The Social Insurance Board is actively involved in finding savings within the system. The Social Insurance Board has also forwarded its analysis and proposals to the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. However, it is clear that internal savings alone are under no circumstances sufficient. There is a need to increase basic funding. It has been agreed with the Ministry of Finance that the basic funding will be reviewed in all areas following an assessment of the impact of the SKA and the resulting changes. The second question: 'The European Social Fund is used to provide various services provided by national and local authorities. For example, the €7.46 million budget for rehabilitation services in 2017 is €1.1 million in total covered by European Union funds. Similarly, European funding for specialised care and employment services is significant. In 2020, European money, which is currently largely delivered, will end today in support of the provision of services. How and to what extent are the services planned to continue to be provided [---] after 2020? ' First of all, it is important to stress that in 2017, the basic budget financed by the state budget for rehabilitation services is 7.46 million, but this amount is not covered by European Union funds. So there was a minor factual error in the matter itself. This year, the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to provide additional one-off additional funding from the European Social Fund for rehabilitation of working-age persons, amounting to EUR 1 million. The state must not leave the needy without help under the Constitution. This means that all necessary services must be continued, regardless of the availability of European money. At the same time, the Estonian state is working to reduce the European Union's funding and reach zero because the higher our standard of living, or the closer we are to the European Union average, the lower the European Union's support for us. We are working to ensure that the standard of living is raised, but it is now clear that in 2020 subsidies will continue at a lower rate, but will continue. Planning activities must strike a balance between European Union and national funding and put in place a long-term exit strategy in all areas. Question 3: 'Estimating the severity of trees and the existence of disability guarantees the right to benefits and services. The existence of trees is a prerequisite, for example, for applying for and obtaining a ferry ticket, aids, disability card, etc. People who need a service often seek disability only because they need a particular service rather than recommend disability support financed by the state budget. Please give an overview of what accompanying benefits and services are intended for people with disability, including children. Does the Ministry intend to review the list of intended services and grants and, if necessary, to decouple them from the existence of disability? ' First of all, a little bit about the determination of the trees and the delays involved. The degree of disability to be determined by the Social Insurance Board shall always be established retroactively from the date of submission of the expert's application. The disability allowance shall be paid from the day on which the aid application is submitted. Renewed applicants shall not be required to submit a separate aid application and the aid shall be paid retroactively from the date of expiry of the previous decision. Thus, in the event of a decision being delayed, the person in the money will not lose it, he will receive it retroactively, but there is, of course, a problem that he will receive it at once later and in the meantime his status will change. The question, therefore, is how to eliminate the problem that arises if the hole stays in and the person does not get additional services. The SCA has confirmed that it has reviewed a variety of ways of solving it in terms of information technology, but found other ways of finding out that during this week, it will be possible to extend disability benefit in such a way that no one will be deprived of the service and the money will be paid every month, even this small amount. A decision to extend a previous decision on a person shall be taken until a new assessment has been carried out. So this, too, is technically resolved. There are also legislative changes to make it legally clear that this is the case, but it is still possible to implement the law in this way. As of Friday last week, one of the procedures for determining disability is in the process of dealing with children, old age pensioners, 17 procedures and two procedures for people of working age. However, the question itself was about different benefits and benefits. I'll read them. But there's really a lot of them, so there's probably no explanation for everyone. Firstly, social benefits for disabled people. Secondly, labour market subsidies. Then the aids, social rehabilitation services, special care services, local government grants and services are determined by each local government itself, part of them is linked to the disability decision, part is not, parking card, free public transport travel (for disabled children and some other groups), cancellation of study loans by the state, student scholarship with special needs, paid child leave (one working day per month), unpaid child leave, exemption from income tax for the employer (from the benefit paid to the disabled worker in the case of the use of a personal car for the journey between home and work). Further, the payment of social security contributions by the local government on behalf of the guardian of a disabled person, to whom the local government pays the carer's allowance, the right to an old-age pension on preferential terms, the preferential rates of state fees. In addition, a number of other guarantees are also linked to disability, such as the Penal Code, the right to drive a motor vehicle cannot be withdrawn from a person who uses a motor vehicle because of reduced mobility. The disabled person is also entitled to a free permit and visit the museum free of charge. A number of other disability benefits are included in other laws. A disabled person is also able to receive other benefits and benefits if he or she has been identified as having reduced capacity to work. Thus, in some cases, the disabled person also receives benefits, services and benefits on the basis of reduced capacity to work. So far, no decision has been taken to decouple some of the benefits or benefits from the determination of the disability, but the direction has been taken. But it is a longer-term process that must not be approached in parts, but seen as a whole. The welfare development plan drawn up by the Ministry of Social Affairs also sets out the principle that the provision of services must become needs-based. The trend is that people are provided with services and benefits based on actual needs rather than status, for example, the degree of disability. Question 4: "The use of services increases with increasing awareness of people and the existence of more effective interventions. In order to plan the volume of services and financing in a reasonable way, it is important that a particular service is provided by the person who needs it. How do you plan to improve the targeting and delivery of services so as to reduce the provision of unnecessary services with limited resources? 'There are a number of ways of increasing the efficiency of the system and promoting internal savings. For example, in addition to an ex-ante assessment of working and retirement age, there is also a plan to implement an assessment of the need for a service in the case of child rehabilitation. The Social Insurance Board will prepare a pilot project on this proposal, which will provide more detailed information on its possible impact. One of the problems is cases where the child's disability is based on allergic or non-allergic asthma. Although this is a disability, the rehabilitation service cannot help this child. In such situations, an ex-ante evaluation would help to exclude the provision of unnecessary services, including the preparation of a rehabilitation plan. The Social Insurance Board has also proposed to include an assessment of the need for services in special care. Right now, we're making preparations to pilot it this year. In addition, an increase in people's minimum own contribution to the assistance facility is currently €7 and a step-by-step assessment of the rental of aid instruments, so that older products have a lower price. It is also possible to abandon certain groups of aids. To make any possible changes in order to increase efficiency within the system, we will definitely involve interest groups and social partners, especially the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People. I understand my time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U133	You can continue to answer or at least pass on your thoughts in a slightly different form, because your answers to the written questions asked have raised new questions in the questioners. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will ask my question first, and if you have answered it, you can also stop answering the last question. However, our second question concerned exit strategies from European Union funding. How will we proceed when 2020 is over? You said that an exit strategy must be put in place for all services, but you did not specify how. Is this strategy already under development? Do you have such first thoughts on how we can handle this? You said that, in the next period, the European Union's funding would most likely continue, but in a smaller scale. The second part of my question is, what is the estimate of this smaller volume that we have to deal with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U135	It is, of course, difficult to assess the impact that Brexit will have, but it can be expected that the volume of EU subsidies after 2020 could be around 60% of the current level. It is understandable that in the future we will be able to make less use of this money for so-called concrete, but mostly for people and services. Therefore, with all the emphasis in mind, we are talking to a large extent about services. Rather, it is services that can remain and new houses cannot be built for institutions. So the construction side disappears and the services side, i.e. directly contributing to people, remains largely. These calculations of the amount of money needed to continue the services have been made, but everything now depends well on the future of the European Union and on the effects of Brexit. Later it is possible to make budget forecasts more accurately and compare the share of funding from Estonia and the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U136	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U137	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question concerns people with severe intellectual disabilities who need 24/7 security. We have been approached and described cases where a person with such a disability (in addition to special psychological needs) is addressed to a community-based living service, which does not guarantee security. As a result, others may suffer; they may also cause problems to others. It is worrying that the Ministry's special welfare development plan envisages a very significant reduction in 24-hour service and that it is towards services that require self-sufficiency. I get the feeling it's very nice, but I'm afraid it might be wishful thinking. How do you plan to avoid cases where a person gets into an environment where he or she cannot cope and needs 24/7 surveillance? This specific table, if you think about it a little bit, confirms that 24-hour service will be reduced by 2.3 times in 2014-20.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U138	The fact that 2,3 times the 24/7 service is being reduced, I cannot be satisfied in any way. At the moment, the project of reorganisation and deinstitutionalisation reduces the service to these institutions and transfers an average of 20 to 25% of the customers to the community housing service. This is also the result of the pilot project and the evaluation that these institutions have a fifth to a quarter of customers who do not actually need a 24-hour service. They could manage more independently, but there is also a need for support for those who have been used to living in such large institutions for a long time and who have not been able to use all their abilities in terms of being able to cope with a very precise routine agenda and very precise guidance. Such a transition certainly requires long-term preparation. They also teach people to practice. These service places are currently in the process of pre-work and study, so that this can be done. Some of these people do indeed go to community housing, but at the same time new 24/7 aid places are being created. Right now, in the second call for proposals, we want to see individual projects or special projects that solve a problem and help create more places for 24/7 services. Indeed, there are over 500 people in the order of 24 hours of special care. But there are two sides to the coin. One thing is that people do not want to go to very many of the places they live in now, whether the location is not appropriate, the atmosphere is not good enough for them and the kind that their loved ones want for their loved ones. There are also people in this order who have put themselves in line just in case, maybe in a few years he'll need this place, but not right now. I'm sure there are people in their homes who aren't in line. So that's the way it's going to be done. When we were at the caretakers' annual conference, which Tiina Kangro dragged and organized two weeks ago, there was an example by the SKA that a place in a 24-hour facility has now been released and they have reached the 300th order who have not requested this place. But I'm sure there's somebody out there who wants to. There may be different reasons for the game. So, on the one hand, we are creating new places around the clock, but in the course of reorganisation, some people will definitely be switching to the use of a lighter service. It is very important, of course, to make sure that evaluation is correct. And if there's anything that needs to be changed here, every case still needs to be looked at on a very individual basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U139	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U140	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! As we are talking about the future of this area, I have a slightly different question, which is motivated by the debate in the Special Committee on State Reform. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Affairs have two ministers. A number of analyses have argued that apart from communication difficulties, no one understands which minister we are talking about, the problem is also that it is difficult to set budgetary priorities. Two ministers must agree on a common budget. As a minister, in view of the future, have you thought that it would be reasonable to reunite (a) the two ministers to have a full vision or (b) to create two separate ministries dealing with different social areas at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U141	Thank you for that question. Perhaps not as a very serious theme development, but as a small superball, I note that there are three ministers in some countries: there are also a separate Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health. So there are more interesting options. In the future, what kind of arrangement could it be to go back to one minister, perhaps at some point, when major restructuring has taken place? But I haven't had time to think about that. We have divided our work in organising these services into three phases. First of all, the issues that need to be resolved urgently in order to find additional money on the run this year must be addressed by restructuring to ensure that people's interests and rights are protected. In the second phase, we want to look further ahead so that plans are in place for the whole of next year. The theme of the third phase is long-term policy changes. However, I have not analysed whether the area is run by one or two ministers, or how these ministries have houses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U142	Minister, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U143	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you to the Minister for their answers. The demographic situation of our population presents us with great challenges. On the one hand, we are directly facing the challenges of ageing populations, on the other hand, the steady increase in the number of people with reduced capacity to work, as well as the number of people with disabilities. It poses ever greater challenges for the social sector. Unfortunately, when listening to the Minister's answers today, the impression that social protection has not been a priority for the Estonian state since regaining independence was certain. However, the Minister said that there was a need to increase the basic funding for all services, including those provided by the State. Currently, the services provided by the State are provided in combination with other services, which is unsustainable in the long term. We really need more basic funding. Today we mainly focused on the services provided by the state, but besides the state, the local government plays a very important role in managing the disabled and the elderly. When we talk about social services and various benefits provided by local governments, we also talk about health and work, then really, if you look at this picture, it's like a patchwork, where the edges of the patchwork do not reach each other at times. We understand that the Ministry is trying to patch up existing holes right where it is most felt, where the problem is the most acute. In fact, it is understandable and understandable. But we need a system patch replacement. Take, for example, the services provided by the local government. The law has left every local authority free to decide what they do or do not do. If, for example, the provision of a personal assistant service to get a person with special needs to work is not a priority for the municipality, the person cannot get a job. This is even if the state provides some services, such as social rehabilitation and sufficient resources. This leads to a man's struggle at home. On the other hand, the family law says that loved ones need help. If our parents get to the point that they are no longer able or able to take care of their children, we will face the next problem. Yes, as long as we have the European Union's money from the beginning until 2020 we will be able to provide certain services by combining the Estonian state budget with the European Union's money. But soon, Estonia will no longer be a poor country, so we will receive about 60% of the money we have already had in the next programming period of the European Union. Inevitably, the question arises as to what happens after this: how will special care rehabilitation services and active labour market services be provided, how will the transition to the labour market for people with special needs be supported and how will the employers employ them? That is what we are doing now, to a large extent, with the support of European Union money. The problem is that we also live in social protection to a large extent in a project-based world. In order to receive the European Union's money, we are presenting projects. But the project period is over and these services are over. At the same time, social protection is not a project-based activity. And I do not have any confidence that municipalities and the state will be able to continue to provide these services after the European Regional Development Fund has ended. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U144	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U145	Fortunately, the minister said a golden sentence, and this sentence was about that the state must not leave anyone without help regardless of the existence of European money. It gives us confidence that no matter what, our people will not be left without help. However, the increase in awareness among those in need and the introduction of new services will lead to the need for and increasing consumption of new services. Emotions, logic, justice, justice, justice, sustainability, short and long perspectives, etc., inevitably collide. And as if there were not enough of that, every new solution creates another, even more complex problem. Thus, the final cleaning of the stables of Augeias will never happen, as needs and opportunities will continue to change in the course of action. A few words on the last question concerning Külliki Kübarsepp, who asked about the number of ministers. I am of the opinion that the step that was taken a few years ago when more ministerial portfolios were needed and two ministers were appointed at the Ministry of Social Affairs, leaving one Chancellor and three areas, has not contributed to the promotion of work and the improvement of the patchwork. I think it's gotten worse. Let me give you a few examples. It is difficult to draw a line in the implementation of the labour capacity reform, which is the responsibility of the Minister. It is formally assigned to the Minister for Labour and Health, but in fact the reform also concerns the responsibilities of the Minister for Social Protection, special services and subsidies. But it's so easy to run away and say I'm not responsible. Or another area of responsibility, where there is confusion: the Minister of Labour and Health is politically responsible for women's asylums, but they are funded and tendered by the Social Insurance Board, which is subordinate to the Minister of Social Protection. Or a mix-up with aid instruments, again two ministers, two wallets. That's how we get conflicting messages from time to time in society. I'd only leave one minister if it was up to me. Social protection must finally become a priority because it directly affects people. If our people do not have faith in a country, there is no belief that they can rely on state help if necessary, trust their country and believe in tomorrow, then it is very bad. We have to keep our people safe. Estonia is a small country. Estonia, as a small country, has the advantage of being a flexible, modern community where the needs of each individual are met. The right to be actively involved in society is paramount. It outweighs all other policy priorities and solutions. A person must become the most important because without people, we do not have a country to bequeathed to our children and grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U146	Dear Riigikogu, inquiry 351 has received answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U147	The next item is the inquiry into the Magnitski list submitted on 22 March by Eerik-Niiles Kross, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, Jürgen Ligi, Yoko Alender, Lauri Luige, Maris Lauri, Jüri Jaanson and Urve Tiidus, members of the Riigikogu (No 338). On behalf of the heirs, Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U148	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It is recalled that at the end of last year we adopted, in a broad consensus, 90 votes in favour, amendments to the obligation to leave and the law on refusal of entry. Among them was a clause that allows for the prohibition of entry for persons who have committed serious human rights violations outside Estonia's jurisdiction and who have not been found to have to be punished by the host state. Such cases have often taken place in a semi-crime state and are often committed by state officials. The explanatory memorandum clearly states that the will of the legislator, or the will of the majority here, is that the persons on the Magnitski list would be refused entry into Estonia. At the same time, it is clear that the legislator is not in a position to prescribe by name in the law, to whom a refusal of entry is to be imposed and to whom no entry is to be imposed. It's clearly a government matter. But the legislator has expressed his will on this matter as clearly as possible. The purpose of our inquiry is to control the activities of the Ministry of the Interior and to understand the extent to which the Government has taken the will of the legislator into account. Estonia was, by the way, the first European Union country in which such a legislative amendment was made. There's good news. In the meantime, a similar bill has begun to be dealt with in Lithuania and Norway, and Britain has adopted a much stricter law than ours, namely, it also provides for financial sanctions, asset freezes, etc. Estonia has received great praise for this law in international human rights activists' circles. It is remembered that the President of the Republic announced it publicly at the Annual Conference of Human Rights, where Khodorkovsky and other well-known figures were present. We had a very beautiful beginning, but we sensed, during the procedure of this bill, Andres Anvelt also dealt with this bill himself, while still in the Riigikogu, not even the government, but, let's say, a certain reluctance of the official body. The officials did not like the fact that such a law was made, because it is still unpleasant when the Riigikogu comes and starts to say how to behave. The government wants to decide these things. But I stress that this law has a very large international significance and it is very important that Estonia not only discloses its will, but actually implements it. To understand whether and to what extent this will has been implemented, we asked some questions. We understand that the Ministry of the Interior does not comment on the introduction of an entry ban for individual persons and that is why we are asking 'inversely': is there any persons on this list for whom Estonia has not yet imposed an entry ban? An inquiry is included, by the way, in the list itself. Electronically, this is very good news also available from the Riigikogu website. It's a record of all the crimes that these people are guilty of. We ask that if there are persons on this list who have not been refused entry, how many are there and for what reason they have not yet been banned entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U149	Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, will answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U150	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I answer questions from members of the Riigikogu. Since a good member of the Riigikogu has already read the questions, I will not repeat them in the interests of saving time. As the subject is very complex But you will find the answers to all your questions in my text and then you will be able to specify. I am not going to talk about the content of the inquiry, nor about the background of the Sergei Magnitski case, because there has been much information about it in the media as well. I'm about to go to the questioning of the questioners. Under § 334 (1) of the VSS, yes, as the rapporteur said, the information on the refusal of entry applicable to a particular person is not public. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior cannot disclose the refusal of entry data without the consent of the person concerned. However, we can certainly explain in more detail the principles and possibilities of imposing an entry ban. The ban on entry is a preventive measure, we know it from the CMS, to prevent possible attacks on protected goods such as national security, public order or the health of others. The application of an entry ban is based on the principle of international law, according to which the State has a sovereign right to decide whether or not it wants an alien to stay on its territory. Paragraph 31 (1) of the CMS provides that the application of an entry ban is to be decided by the Ministry of the Interior or by the government authority in its area of government without undue delay, and Article 29 (1) (1) of the CMS provides that an alien may be refused entry if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the stay of an alien in Estonia may endanger the security, public policy or health of a Member State of the Republic of Estonia, another Member State of the European Union, a Member State of the Schengen Convention or of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Public order and national security are, as you know, relatively undefined legal concepts. However, according to settled case-law, public policy or national security requirements must be interpreted strictly. Therefore, in this same law, namely Paragraph 29 (2) to (10) of the CMS, the legislator has stated those acts which justify the application of the prohibition of entry for reasons of public policy or national security. Paragraph 29, paragraph 61 of the CMS also applies to an alien who has participated or contributed to a violation of human rights in a foreign country which has resulted in the death of a person, serious damage to health, political motives or other serious consequences of an unjustified criminal conviction. Perhaps when we talk about Magnitsky's list, for example, those same people could go for it. The basis for the application of the refusal of entry is laid down as a decision of assessment. According to § 4 (1) of the Administrative Procedure Act, the discretion of the administrative body is the power conferred by law to consider decisions or to choose between different decisions. According to § 4 (2) of the same Act, discretion must be exercised in accordance with the limits of the mandate, the purpose of the discretion and the general principles of law, taking into account the essential circumstances and considering the legitimate interests. By the way, the Court of Justice has also stressed that measures taken for reasons of public policy or public security must comply with the principle of proportionality and be based solely on personal conduct. Perhaps the questioners are interested in the fact that I also have a number of references to court cases. I'm not gonna read them here, it's gonna be crazy. Therefore, the objective to be achieved by taking a specific measure also depends on the choice of measures. The explanatory memorandum to the second reading of the draft law amending the VSS states that according to the purpose of the prohibition of entry, it is necessary to decide whether to apply an entry ban on the basis of the VSS or the International Sanctions Act. The explanatory memorandum emphasises that the purpose of imposing an entry ban under the CMS is to protect national security and public order. I have to say that the Ministry of the Interior and the authorities in its area of government do not currently have any evidence, such as the persons on Magnitski's list would pose an immediate threat to the public order or security of Estonia or other European Union countries. This is also demonstrated by the fact that seven listed aliens have been issued by Member States with valid multiple Schengen visas. The Home Office has that list, too. Pursuant to Article 1 (2) of the International Sanctions Act, the objective of establishing an international sanction at national level is to support and strengthen democracy, respect the rule of law, human rights and international law, and to achieve other objectives of the European Union's common foreign and security policy. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the same one as the author of the report states that if the application of the prohibition of entry is based on the above-mentioned political considerations, it is more appropriate to impose an entry ban on a person who has violated human rights under the same international sanction law. In this case, the refusal of entry shall be applied by decision of the Government of the Republic on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is due to § 7 of the International Sanctions Act. In circumstances similar to the Magnitski case, the Government of the Republic has approved international sanctions against, for example, Syria, Libya and North Korea. If we come back to international practice, we need to clarify some of the data, which the inquisitor mentioned in his opening remarks, and to clarify their validity. The United States has imposed an entry ban on persons on Magnitski's list and has restricted the right of those persons to open and manage bank accounts. The death of Sergei Magnitsky in the United Kingdom also resulted in the adoption of a legislative amendment authorising the Government to decide on the freezing of property of persons who have committed human rights violations. Both countries have provided for these sanctions not so much to ensure internal security, but to influence the Russian Federation externally to respect the rule of law and respect human rights and international law. When we come back to the Magnitsky case, there is a clear and understandable need to recall that, in the case of those people on the Magnitsky list who are involved in this case, there is talk of 5.4 billion rubles stolen from the state budget. So apart from the violation of human rights against Magnitsky, this has been a very clear corrupt economic crime. Therefore, the same financial sanction will certainly have a much greater effect on these people, but unfortunately the VSS will not allow it to be applied, but it can be done in the same way as in the United Kingdom and the United States under the International Sanctions Act. I have also had an exchange of views with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on this issue. Our security authority is also waiting, as they say, for the Defence Police Department. If he finds one or another person who has been mentioned here and who is on Magnitski's list, and if there is any doubt that any of them poses a threat to public policy or national security, then there will be an opportunity to comply with this law, too, if two important points are fulfilled: a threat to national security and public order, and a violation of human rights. It is certainly appropriate for both our Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the others mentioned here (Lithuania or anyone else, such as Norway and Great Britain) to continue the consultations, as this matter has a foreign policy dimension. It is necessary to reach a common understanding at the level of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Europe that such an international sanction is necessary. Looking at the scale of this act, it seems to me that an international consensus needs to be found, as the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe have said on several occasions in their recommendations, also in imposing national sanctions on these individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U151	Thank you. You have questions. First Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U152	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I find that the representative of the heirs asked his questions quite elegantly, but he received the answer he received. That's why I have a question. Here we are discussing the list in international use, which is also included in the appendix to the inquiry. Is the Ministry of the Interior based on this same list, or are there other lists in use? Why couldn't you answer the second question, whether there are persons on this list who have not yet been refused entry and how many?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U153	I can tell you in general. No entry ban has been imposed on the persons on Magnitski's list today. When we talk about whether or not they are the same people, we are already going to the level of personalised data. Here I owe you an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U154	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U155	Thank you. Your last answer gave me an additional question, but I will start with my first question. I learned from this answer, which was formulated even more complicated than our question, that this legislative amendment, which is currently in force, provides as a basis for imposing a ban on entry that it is known that an alien has participated in or contributed to a violation of human rights in a foreign country, which has resulted in the death of a person, serious damage to health, political motives or other serious consequences of his unjust conviction. It is, as we know, literally the same internationally recommended wording of Magnitsky's law without Magnitski's name. Not mentioning a name is, in fact, a good thing, because it provides an opportunity to use this law in other similar cases. It does not, in my view, come in any way that there must also be a threat to national security, a completely different point. Why does the Ministry of the Interior consider that, apart from qualifying for this so-called Magnitski point, a person must also pose a separate and direct threat to national security? The explanatory memorandum to the law clearly states that we want to give...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U156	I'm sorry, your time has long expired. I would like to ask you quickly to formulate a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U157	The question has already been asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U158	Good questioner, I understand your question. I'll describe it again. In the opening of the VSS explanatory memorandum and in accordance with the same § 29 (1) it can be seen that the purpose of applying an entry ban on the basis of the VSS is to protect national security and public order. Paragraph 1 speaks of public order and state security not only in Estonia, but also in NATO or in the country of the European Union. If you read the entire text of the law and look at its original explanation, you can see that this is the basis of the ideology of the law. The refusal of entry is aimed at keeping people away from Estonia who could in any way harm public order or security in either Estonia or the European Union or NATO space. The rest of the points, 2 to 9 and 10, to which 61 goes, are its extension. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice, measures taken for reasons of public policy or public security must be based exclusively on the personal conduct of the person concerned and the grounds on which the general prevention is based cannot be accepted. What am I saying? I cannot tell you how the debate took place in the Committee on Foreign Affairs when you initiated this draft, which was later in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I do not understand why this path was not followed, which would have been much simpler and more logical for those who would have been able to impose economic sanctions and what could actually be done today or tomorrow. I mean, we could go down the road to the International Sanctions Act. By doing so, we would achieve the main objective: we would also be able to discourage the economic and financial activities of these people. We can't do this now. The other thing is that under the International Sanctions Act, good practice would be required, even though it is a government decision, that an international sanction should be agreed jointly by certain countries and then established on a country-by-country basis. This job needs to be done separately. I maintain and maintain in my reply that the CMS protects our country's internal security and public order, and these other points are its extensions. If we want to justify, in general terms, the restriction on the movement of these people and their money in Europe, then there is a law in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U159	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U160	Good waitress! I did not understand very well what funds and investments are going to the judge of the Hamovnik Court, even if he takes bribes, and I do not know what punishment is, etc. I totally agree with you that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is legally undercompleted and they're banging haltura. That's right. But you and Erik got very detailed and complicated. I ask a very simple question. I want this to be clear now: the person who is on Magnitsky's list and who poses no threat to Estonia, does not intend to hold meetings or the like here, is welcome and welcome in Estonia, is it not? That's what you were gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U161	Good Igor Gräzin! You don't have to put words in my mouth. No, I don't want to say that, I don't want to say that. If this person starts applying for a visa in Estonia, for example, then we will look at this case specifically. However, the European Court of Justice has stated that other measures must be used for general prevention purposes, namely the International Sanctions Act, which is actually intended to curb the behaviour of officials from one country or another and their financial resources. At the beginning of your question, you asked me how many bribes somebody took. Once again, I would like to point out that we are talking about the 5.4 billion rubles that these people were involved in looting in law enforcement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U162	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U163	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Solidarity, solidarity between allies and the fight for democracy are very often spoken in this Chamber. The fact is, Sergei Magnitski has been killed. The fact is that the superpowers, in particular the United States, have carried out a pretty thorough investigation and have identified and refused access to persons who have been indirectly or directly involved in this matter. We're gonna pretend this has nothing to do with us. Just as Igor said, these people are literally welcome to us and welcome here, because our fingertips are not moving to impose any sanctions against them. Do you consider this to be solidarity with our most important allies in Britain and the United States?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U164	Thank you, good ambassador. On your question, in fact, the answer was within: it was precisely the imposition of sanctions. There is a need for international sanctions against such persons, and there is also an international law on sanctions. Here we need a government decision that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must bring to the government as a proposal. I do not dispute that these individuals have committed human rights violations; their actions have led to the loss of life for a lawyer who studied their activities. This is a serious international case, and the law on international sanctions is intended for such cases. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must consider this case and bring forward a proposal for a decision before the Government of the Republic. It has a foreign policy dimension. As Minister of the Interior, I can tell you that the Ministry of the Interior of Estonia and the authorities in its area of government have no information today that these specific people, who unfortunately have more than a dozen Schengen visas, would pose a threat to Estonia's internal security and public order. If these data arrive, we can use them. Once again, the European Court of Justice has also said that if we impose a sanction or a restriction, such as a restriction on entry for general prevention purposes, it requires action under an international sanction law that is much wider and, I say again, it will also make it possible to limit the use of the funds of those people in the region that has been agreed or in the European Union at large.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U165	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U166	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Speaking of threats to Estonia's security, we must mention the completely ridiculous Risto Teinonen case. There was some danger found in the ceiling and the opportunity to live in Estonia was taken away. But isn't Estonia a sovereign state with sovereign discretion to decide? Even if another Schengen country has given someone an entry visa or a residence permit, Estonia can still put this person on the blacklist, even if another Schengen country has given an entry visa to a Russian citizen, we can still refuse to allow him to enter the country. It makes no sense to me why this spinning and blurring here when this list is public. Who are these people? Why do you not want to say to the government as a minister that we will not let these people into Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U167	Thank you. There were a number of questions. I would like to emphasise once again that a refusal of entry is an administrative decision which must be justified. As Minister of the Interior, I can be responsible for a situation where I have reason to believe that these persons represent a direct threat to Estonian public order and security. Otherwise, if we want to keep them out of the European Union in a general manner, we need to use the International Sanctions Act, which allows the government to limit both the physical movement of a person and the movement of its funds by its decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U168	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U169	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You were a member of the Riigikogu when we dealt with this bill, i.e. you are very familiar with it. In the light of this law, when you took up the duties of the Minister of the Interior, did you address the Ministry of the Field, for example, in order to really prevent these persons from entering Estonia and to impose an entry ban on them? Did you initiate this appeal, did you address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with this initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U170	Thank you. This issue has been discussed in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic. Together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will discuss further how we can achieve that the most restrictive measure, the International Sanctions Act, can be used against these persons. This requires cooperation with other countries, as the impact of this measure is limited in the territory of one country. In addition, I would like to say that this bill was really processed in its time, but the point that came up with it does not make the law worse. It simply provides an additional opportunity in case there is reason to believe that these persons may be a threat to the public order of the state in Estonia. Then you can use this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U171	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U172	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, you're full of shit! It's an extra chance! What more do you need? If a person is dangerous, he's dangerous and then he won't be allowed to come here, will he? What additional option, or a point that you say doesn't make any decisions, do you still need? But the question I have is this: to whom does the Estonian state have to justify the refusal of entry? Who is the person to whom the grounds are given for not issuing a visa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U173	All these issues are disputed by the administrative court, for example. In order to ensure that you are informed: if an entry ban is imposed, it must be a prudent and reasoned decision. As I said, I can pass on to you a number of judgments of the European Court of Justice, where it is precisely the question of whether the public authorities have given the necessary reasons for these decisions. If it is intended to use this prohibition in a general preventive way towards anyone, there is another law. The refusal of entry shall be specifically justified on the part of the person. The state must explain why a person is dangerous. Speaking of such cases, when Estonia has taken these decisions, I can say that an international sanction is being applied to a number of individuals from, for example, North Korea, Libya or Syria. They do not have the opportunity to move and move money in the region on which the countries have taken this decision together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U174	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U175	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You said that there was a need for cooperation on this issue. The European Parliament, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and a number of other international organisations have called for sanctions to be imposed on the persons on Magnitsky's list. This has already been done by a number of countries, our largest allies, as has been mentioned here today. Then what is the problem, why does Estonia not cooperate with anyone and only looks for excuses in your person, why not? § 6 of the Act states that the prohibition of entry is a barrier aimed at preventing an undesirable alien from arriving in Estonia and staying in Estonia. They're just talking about an unwelcome foreigner. It doesn't say that he's supposed to pose a direct threat to us, somewhere to bomb or propaganda. What's the problem? If the Riigikogu has passed the law, why does the government refuse the latter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U176	Thank you. Once again, I would like to stress that there is a specific provision in this very law that speaks of a threat to public order and security. When we are talking about imposing a sanction, I will say it directly to you: on this matter, please ask questions to the Foreign Minister, who is obliged to bring this proposal to the Government of the Republic to decide on the imposition of a sanction on these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U177	No further questions. Thanks to the answer to the question. I'm opening negotiations. Would anyone like to speak on behalf of the heirs? No, I don't. Then I ask for a speech chair in Igor Gräzini!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Erik and EKRE boys! We got a problem with this thing. I'm asking for eight minutes just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U179	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U180	We know this thing too well. We know what happened, who interrogated what happened, and so on. We're so caught up in this, we're just pros and we know more about this than the Minister of the Interior. That is why we do not understand in any way how the Minister of the Interior does not get the point, if it is so simple and understandable, it has been mentioned in the press, we know all this, but the Minister does not understand, has not read. So let's turn this thing around. I took it on, by the way, totally random, if someone now, as a human, wants to attack me or something, then I'll say that this is really the first advance name on this list, one name: Gaus, Alexandra Viktorovna, the watch doctor. So, what do we have to blame him for? Mr. Magnitski's death certificate is signed by Dr. Gaus. Let's say it's a fake. That's probably the way it is. Let's be honest. Let's be honest. You can buy diplomas at the Tishinski market. Buy or sell one death certificate, what does it matter? What's really embarrassing is that we're focusing on that now. Imagine Alexandra Viktorovna Gaus showing up on Kopli's market and selling something else there. What kind of threat is this to the Estonian state? Well, it isn't! But look, what's gonna change this thing? It's a moral dimension. The same Gaus is part of a very large organized game that attacked freedoms, morality, justice and everything. And we're gonna make a problem with a little document forger! The Estonian state in the position represented by the esteemed Minister of the Interior acts immorally. We do not have the right to talk about values or value policy, if all of this is convertible, just like that! And if it turns out that morality really doesn't mean anything, because, look, it's been in that section or something. I argue that no international legal instrument obliges Estonia to act immorally. Morality does not start when someone acts immorally, cheats on his mate, drinks, or does something else. That's not what's gonna happen, immorality starts when the country doesn't give a shit. That's just it. Here was a very interesting reference to administration, administrative decision. As we know, particularly in the case of consular matters, the full basis for not allowing a person to enter the country is, in fact, the arbitrary decision of the consul does not like the face, and that is it. That is the basis for the sovereignty of consular action. What do we expect then? We assume that the person to whom we grant the right to administrative discretion is an instructor, an inspector, a supervisor, an auditor or anyone who exercises discretion is a person with a strong moral sense whose subjective feeling and sense of justice we trust. Administrative law is not a shield against immorality, and administrative law does not justify a piece of stone instead of a heart. This is where our ideas currently differ fundamentally from those of the Minister of the Interior. We understand that Magnitski case is one of many cases (and not only in relation to Russia) where the only real application of law is, in principle, the fight against good people and good countries. This is now the place where the Minister of the Interior and everyone else can choose whether you're with us on the side of honesty and morality, justice and freedom, or whether you're right on that line and you've decided that I'm going that way. The location of the selection. I repeat: Magnitsky's list is not a list, it's a morale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U181	Next Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U182	Good President! I'm pretty impressed with the Home Secretary's response. We can probably interpret this law a few more times here, I don't know exactly how. Let me remind you once again of the origin of this change. I remember it started with discussions with some security authorities and discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs that in the current security environment we are complaining about, new threats and hybrid threats have arisen, and some countries that are hostile to us are inventing new methods of damaging our security, but also how to disrupt our society. This is one of the dangers that the Defence Police Yearbook writes about. From there the idea began to move, which should be changed in Estonian law in order to take account of these new threats and to prevent them. The point in the so-called Magnitski list is not the only point that we have changed. We created, for example, a basis under which a refusal of entry may be imposed on a person on the basis of a threat assessment by a security authority. This was precisely the consideration to get rid of the relatively formalistic approach that the Estonian courts have really had to prove that a person has already done something or that he should do something. These discussions were held both in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on Legal Affairs. With this law, we are creating exactly the kind of moral dimension you want. We are in some ways expressing our position on this unpunished society, which in another country where there is a different form of government can commit crimes, they have not formally been convicted anywhere, but we do not want them here, because their presence here is in some way the approval of their actions. That's why it came out like that. Magnitski's list simply means a specific group of persons whose activities have been thoroughly studied. Their guilt has been believed in a number of great powers, and in this sense they are part of this phenomenon. Thanks to this list, we have been able to ask the Minister of the Interior here today whether the ban has been applied to them, otherwise the legislator's control of the government would be much more limited, because, after all, it is all confidential and there is no comment. I'm starting to think maybe we should sharpen control considerably. While the government has announced in its strategy papers a value-based foreign policy and value policy at all and respect for human rights, the law is still interpreted in an old way and against the will of the legislator. It was precisely the political value of these points that the explanatory memorandum made very clear. It has not been pointed out that a person should come here directly to endanger our security, but he is threatening our value system. It was and it's the point. What's the interpretation of that, that's another argument. That's something to think about. Surely we are also inviting the Foreign Minister here to discuss this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U183	Thank you. Mart Helme next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U184	President-in-Office of the Council. Mr. Minister! I will start by not fulfilling the task assigned to it by the government as a contractor in Parliament; it has simply not carried out this task. So, what are we supposed to do now? Fire the government. [[Interjection.]] The task has not been completed. That's one. Secondly, it smells like an apology that I use such an ugly word for vassal mentality. Let's remember. If, a good year ago, Alaksandr Lukashenko was a persona non grata in Europe, he was accused of being the last dictator in Europe who oppresses his people, etc., then a list of senior officials and politicians in Belarus who were subjected to certain sanctions in Europe was also established: a refusal of entry, with some additional sanctions. Then Estonia was very quick, like a little dog, barking with big dogs in the choir, bad dictators, human rights offenders, and what they were all about, because it was safe, it was safe to bark with that choir. If it is now perfectly clear in black and white that these are people who have contributed to murder or murder, this is a regime that Europe and not only Europe have imposed sanctions in relation to Ukraine on a wider scale, we do not want to implement Magnitski's list in any way in this sense, as Parliament has put it on the agenda. Why? We may speculate that it is the wish of certain sections of government not to irritate its electra. But perhaps also because somewhere in the European Commission or in Germany or in another influential centre, people with vassal mentality are said: 'Oh, no, there is no point in dealing with it. Of course, yes, the Americans and the British have taken steps, but we're not going to blow up the instrument, there's no point. ' And we, of course, listen to the words of the wiser, the greater and the better, and do nothing. That, too, is an option. I don't know if this is the case, but it smells of chronic sovereignity that has unfortunately become endemic in Estonia. That's one thing. If the Minister of the Interior says that there is a need to justify a refusal of entry and, for example, brings a case from the European Court of Human Rights, it is demagogy and it is not true. As Igor rightly said, every consular officer has a sovereign right to decide, on the basis of documents, whether to authorise a person. If there is a political signal and a list of people whose arrival in our democratic state is not desirable, then the consul will make such a decision that we will not let this person here, and he will not have to justify it anywhere. If this goes to court, if this particular person, who is told that we are not waiting for him here, will refer this matter to the Human Rights Court, if it has come this far since the domestic trial, it will, of course, be justified. It's a court, it's a court of law, it's a court of law, it's a court of law, it's a court of law, But our consuls don't have to explain, our border guards don't have to explain, our country, if it's sovereign, doesn't have to explain. You don't like your face, we don't think you're a bastard, we don't want you here. That's it. It's over. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U185	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U186	That is how we should act if we consider ourselves to be the rule of law, if we consider ourselves to be a value-based country, but not an opportunistic country, where things are looked at in such a way that our big friends thought we weren't going to do it, and let's not do it. I think that the majority of MPs agree with me that this is a certain degree of lacuna, whether we act first as a self-respecting country, and whether we act as a country that really applies in practice these values-based principles, which we so much love to talk about in parades and in festive talks. In practice, we often fail to do these things. Let us not miss them in practice. The more we opt out of these things in an opportunistic way, the more hollow the festive speeches, the more alienation is taking place, and the more the representatives of other countries see that we are bluffing: this country is a bluff because it is not what has been declared here. I don't want to be a citizen of a bluffing country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U187	There's no more calls. Does the addressee of the inquiry want a word? No, I don't. Then I'm gonna stop asking the sixth question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U188	The seventh inquiry was submitted by the members of the Riigikogu Henn Põlluaas, Martin Helme, Mart Helme, Uno Kaskpeit, Jaak Madison, Raivo Põldaru and Arno Sild on 23 March. a and it concerns refugees. The number of the inquiry is 339. On behalf of the heirs, I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu Henn Põllea!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U189	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The members of the EKRE Group have an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Andres Anvelt, and this concerns the so-called quota refugees who have received international protection in Estonia. We know that some of them have had problems: some have got into trouble with the law, some women have been on fire for some reason and some have left Estonia and we have no idea where they are. We also have no idea of the real background of these people, because any precise control is impossible because there are no databases and no enquiries can be made in the countries of dispatch. We are dealing with a rather dark area in short. We want to know what the current situation is. That is why we want information from the Minister of the Interior about where these people go and what they do. Since they don't have to register when they leave here, we don't know if they're just traveling or whether they've left permanently, whether they've gone back to their homeland on a so-called holiday, or whether they're in battles somewhere in the ISIS. There are seven questions. I'm not going to read them all. I hope the Minister will highlight them and read them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U190	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Chair to answer the question. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U191	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'll move on by question. I'll read the question and then the answer. The first question: 'Because there is no obligation to register an exit, how and from what point will the time spent on the journey be taken into account? ' Estonia is a Schengen Member State, so with a residence permit issued in Estonia, regardless of the basis on which the residence permit has been issued, it can also be covered by international protection in other European Union Member States for a total period of 90 days in any 180-day period. The 90 days will begin to run from the time of entry into another Schengen Member State. The second question: 'How will it be checked and found that the person in question has been travelling rather than leaving another country? ' Such a person is considered to have left if he or she officially leaves Estonia, for example, voluntarily returned to his or her country of origin, as has happened in one case. Such a person shall be deemed to have left even if he has been away from Estonia for more than 90 days without a legal basis. When such a person arrives in the country, he or she will be assigned a support person with the task of regularly meeting that person, providing support and advising him or her, as well as communicating with the Ministry of Social Affairs as a customer of the support person's service and with third parties (e.g. unemployment fund, school, kindergarten, social workers in the local government and many other authorities). In addition, support person service providers communicate either directly or through the Ministry of Social Affairs with the Police and Border Guard Board. If there are some practical problems, for example, the sponsor has not been in contact with the family or person for a period of time, he or she will contact the district constable. This is done, for example, when it turns out that the children of this family do not attend school or kindergarten. It can therefore be said that the contact between the beneficiary of international protection and the sponsor is regular within the framework of the provision of the support person service. As a result, the time of people's departure from Estonia is known and it is also known from the statements whether the persons have planned to return to Estonia or not. However, since these are statements by persons, certain details of departure can only be obtained after the end of the 90-day period. The third question: 'If they do not know when they left Estonia, then on what basis and at the moment will the payment of the various grants granted to them be suspended? Under the Social Welfare Act, the application for income support must be submitted to the local government every month. This means that if a person is outside Estonia and does not apply for income support for the local government, he or she will not receive support. The Social Insurance Institution suspends the payment of family benefits if the family has stayed outside Estonia for more than 90 days during the 180-day period. It is based on § 9 of the Family Benefits Act. Under § 14 of the Family Benefits Act, these persons are entitled to a refund of the family benefit. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs, there is currently no practice of recovering subsidies, as no one has yet exceeded the 90-day delay. As noted earlier, all beneficiaries of international protection under the European Union's migration plan are designated under the Act granting international protection to aliens. The contact of the beneficiary of international protection and the sponsor is frequent in providing support services, which is why the time of the person's departure from Estonia is known. Question 4: "Are the amounts unduly paid and the expenditure incurred on them (residence allowance, training, support specialist, language training, health insurance, etc.) required from these persons? If not required, for what reason? ' The beneficiaries of international protection have their own responsibilities, which are also the responsibility of other permanent residents of Estonia. Recovery of the costs incurred for the provision of services is possible under the General Part of the Social Code Act if the person has breached his or her obligations relating to the provision of compensation, be it financial support, service or the provision of an item or object. In doing so, the person is required to provide the recipient with all known true and complete information, documents and other evidence necessary for the purpose of determining the entitlement to compensation or any other relevant circumstance, to inform him of the circumstances affecting the entitlement to compensation and the provision of compensation and of any change in those circumstances, to participate actively in the award of compensation and to use the funds provided to him as compensation in an ad hoc manner. At a time when the recipient of international protection is outside Estonia, the services and benefits mentioned in the question are not guaranteed or offered to him. This means that there is no immediate cost to the recipient of international protection for the provision of the service. Question 5: Will it be checked which countries have returned to Estonia? If not checked, for what reason? ' If a complaint is lodged, for example from a support person, that a person has left home and has not been in contact with him for a long time, it is possible to check in the border control information system whether a person has crossed the external borders of the European Union. It is also possible to check the passenger lists or to consult the Member States through the Contact Centre in order to establish which countries' external borders have yet to be crossed. The checks shall be carried out on an ad hoc basis, looking at the issue of each absentee separately. Stamps shall not be placed in a passport with a residence permit. Question 6: 'If it turns out that these persons have been in the country from which they have fled because of alleged persecution, danger, etc., then they have therefore made false declarations when applying for asylum. Consequently, they do not qualify for international protection. Will the refugee status, asylum and residence permits granted to them be revoked, as is the case in other countries? If they don't cancel, what's the reason? 'The Police and Border Guard Board is based on international and European Union law and national law in international protection proceedings. In the event that there are circumstances which result in the revocation, revocation, termination or refusal of international protection under a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council (such as certain articles of the Qualifications Directive, such as "Revocation, termination or refusal to renew a status of international protection', "Revocation, termination or refusal to renew a status of subsidiary protection') or under the Act granting international protection to an alien (a number of paragraphs, such as "Revocation of a residence permit', "Delete of the status and subsidiary protection', 'Revocation of the refugee status and subsidiary protection status', the Police and Border Guard Board shall initiate an international protection and residence permit revocation, revocation or termination procedure or refuse to renew that protection in proceedings for the extension of international protection. Unjustified access to the country from which a person fled because of alleged persecution, danger, etc., is a basis for repealing, ending or refusing to renew international protection in accordance with the rules of the Common European Asylum System. However, the specific content of each case must be taken into account. The last question: 'How many foreigners who have received international protection in Estonia have refugee rights revoked or revoked, and what has been the reason? ' Following the principle stated in the reply to the previous question, i.e. if there are circumstances that preclude international protection of an alien, the Police and Border Guard Board has revoked international protection and residence permit three times in 2016 and once in 2017. However, the protection procedure is confidential, so the grounds on which the protection of persons and residence permits have been declared invalid cannot be dealt with in the public response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U192	Thank you. You have questions. First Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U193	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. You have explained here for a long time that if a person leaves Estonia, we will not keep a record of it, that it will not be fixed anywhere, and that the sponsor will know about it when the person has been missing for a long time. But now confirm what we already know: we do not control the arrival of these people in other Schengen countries. Most other Schengen countries do not control the arrival of people from Estonia, for example. A Somali who goes to Finland, Sweden or Germany does not sign up there, I do not know. Even if Germany fixes its presence there, Estonia will not receive this information if it does not ask for it separately. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U194	Thank you. There's one way around, there's no other way around. So far, there has been our system, I think, relative certainty that we are committed to minimising the'second movement'. So it is fair to the other Member States of the European Union. If, for example, the sponsor reports that he has not seen his "customer" for a long time, this information will also reach the police. If we have received information from a support person that this person has spoken about his relatives in one country or another, the information that has been available so far has not touched Finland, but Germany, then we have sent this information there, so that, if they identify this person, they would at least have in the database that this person is from Estonia. That's it. Information exchange between Member States is ongoing. Yes, in the Schengen area, indeed, as I said, it will not be possible to identify a person on the border if he does not cross the external border, unless he uses air transport, because then he can be identified. I dare say to you that, since this issue of secondary movements is very seriously being discussed in Europe, negotiations with partner countries are taking place to reduce it, which will certainly continue during the Estonian Presidency. It is precisely the use of PNR, or passenger package, for example in bus and train traffic between Member States, within the European Union, in order to identify secondary movements. Indeed, at present it is only possible to do so through compensatory measures, i.e. by means of occasional border checks from time to time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U195	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U196	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In short, we have now learned that on many occasions, perhaps even in most cases, information about the refugee's probably left Estonia, from the sponsor. In that case, of course, it will not be completely understood when it will be 90 days. But it relates to the European Union and to the fact that there are no internal borders within the European Union. The question I ask relates instead to countries outside the European Union, so-called third countries. How has the exchange of information with these countries been organised, i.e. how can we get information about the arrival of someone who has left Estonia? Yes, it is possible to obtain this information from the United States and perhaps from another country with which we have good and close contacts. But if these people go to Asia, Africa, countries where we do not have diplomatic representation and where we do not have diplomatic representation, how is it organised?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U197	Thank you. You're asking the right question. When we talk about the many third countries from which the same pressure comes from refugees, and often there are people who do not have any right to international protection, I mean the movement that is currently taking place from Libya to Italy and where people in need of international protection are less than 10%, this is a very difficult situation at the moment. One of the initiatives of the European Commission, with which Estonia, including the speaker here, must work hard during the Presidency, is that diplomatic, economic and financial measures must seriously influence these third countries, the African countries with which the exchange of information is poor. This is seriously on the agenda, and we are now considering how and with which countries it needs to be done. Speaking of third countries, it can also be said that there have been cases in Estonia when a person has left the country for which he has claimed to have been persecuted there and, as a result, refugee status has also been withdrawn. So the information is still moving. However, given this situation and the fact that we are talking about countries that do not exist at times, when we are talking about Libya, where there is no specific power of state, and where Italy is essentially looking for a partner now, our role is to help other Member States certainly put pressure on the European Union as a world economy other than an institution, as well as on the Commission to act in solidarity with these third countries. We do not have to talk about solidarity only when we are talking about some sort of relocation, we also have to talk about it when we are talking about return, about information. There must be solidarity, Europe must be united so that these third countries can be affected so much that they are able to provide information and take back their citizens.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U198	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U199	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! How many people have been away from Estonia for more than 90 days? Is there a list and information about them, also at border crossing points, so that they can be detained or sent back when they arrive at the border crossing point, or can they be detained within the country? Are there any lists in the databases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U200	Thank you. Certainly, from the moment we learn from the sponsor that a person has not shown himself for a long time, we will wait for those 90 days and then start acting in accordance with international agreements. It's the same thing for these people to get a letter into those same databases. If we know that a person has gone to, for example, another or a third European country, we will provide information to the power or law enforcement authorities responsible for this area that that person may be there and that he has received international protection in Estonia. When the 90 days are up, he's broken the order and other measures can be taken against him. If we're talking about the moment it starts running for 90 days, you could say that contact statement is one of the bases. The protected person may refute these statements with any facts, but it is very difficult to do so if he has not been seen in the area for 90 days and the sponsor, who must communicate with him at least once each week, has not seen him, has not responded to the phone and has not seen his family members anywhere. I would remind you that most people in Estonia who have received international protection are here with family members, with children. Hiding children without going to school or kindergarten is very difficult. In fact, they are identified not only by some kind of temple but also by assessing the facts for 90 days.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U201	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U202	Thank you. The situation is now that many more immigrants have come across the Mediterranean than they did last year. International organisations accused, by the way, of acting for the money of human smugglers, the European military mission EUNAVFOR Med/Sophia and Frontex are bringing them across the sea by thousands. In Italy, they are accepted by refugee camps that have been mafiad and which earn black money. We do not know where and how high this black money is moving forward in Europe. In short, the situation is completely hopeless. The background of these people cannot be established. How do you see our future situation, all the more so as the European Commission is still trying to push through the compulsory quotas and punish the countries that refuse them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U203	Thank you. This would require a long debate on its own. I will tell you briefly: the European Commission has also understood precisely that it is not possible to act in such a way as to ensure that there are no quotas on the table by means of votes. I don't see that option anymore, and the subject isn't on the table either. We are now talking about solidarity in Europe, as I mentioned earlier, in the second plan, about how we are creating a policy of solidarity return. Italy also worries me. Unfortunately, we have not yet reached an agreement with Italy. We have not relocated any refugees from Italy, because we have not received the files of 'potential candidates' there, and our people, specialists, have not been allowed to assess whether these people come from where they claim to come from, including their own methods, and whether they really need international protection. That is why we have not received people from there. Yes, I dare agree with you that with the spring and summer coming, this activity in the Mediterranean has increased again. It is clear that this is not the refugee crisis that was two years ago. Right now, whoever comes from Libya, there's no need to make a secret of it. These people come from Bangladesh to Sri Lanka; they have nothing to do with the Middle East and even North Africa. What matters is how quickly Frontex, for example, can begin to fulfil its new mandate, which means that it does not just have to save these people from the sea. No border guard or law enforcement body in a normal, civilized country could stand by if these boats went down. But we need to ensure that these people are sent back quickly and effectively. Estonia is small, but the percentage of our return efficiency is well above 90%, unfortunately in Germany it is at 20%. This shows that European countries have much to learn from each other. Firstly, very large and rapid reforms need to be made, for example, in the recognition of return decisions made by each other. Frontex has already started to organise some return flights for people who have absolutely no reason to receive international protection. I need the system back there. This is the only way to influence the people of third countries and take away the senseless hope that they are always welcome here with open arms. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U204	No further questions. Thanks to the answer to the question. I request Martin Helme on behalf of the speakers of the chair. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U205	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with what we just heard here. Two years or a little more than two years ago, when the immigration crisis broke out, our party said: these are not refugees, they are economic migrants, they are arriving in Europe illegally, this is trafficking in human beings, which is being perpetrated by the Mafia and the corrupt police, the external borders need to be seized, those who have no reason to come here or be here must be sent back. Then it was promised that we'd send everyone back who has no reason to be here, process and send them back. Now it's been two and a half years and nothing has been done. Frontex is engaged in mass and taxpayer-supported hoarding of illegal border crossings. Frontex takes these boats off the coast of Libya to sleep and brings them back to Europe instead of hauling them back. We're told about Frontex. First of all, that name is already ridiculous, that's a totally orwelllike name. When someone says that Frontex is the solution to the situation, it is not. Frontex is part of the problem, not the solution to this problem. There is absolutely no criticism from the Minister of the Interior about how other countries keep track of when someone has left Estonia. First of all, they don't have it. Over the last few years, 3 million immigrants have arrived in Europe, most of whom are not legal, have no documents at all. Yes, some have a stamp on the border somewhere, especially in Germany and Sweden, were stamped on random paper, asked for a bank account and began to transfer money. These people have not been seen again, and they do not know anything about them, they do not know where they are and what they are doing, they have gone to Syria to fight or they have returned to Somalia to their relatives. No one knows that. The money's gonna be transferred. No one keeps any records, nor does Estonia keep any records. The story that just sounded here brought it out nicely. At some point, the supporters discover that these people are no longer here. But if we have 90 days, what day will this period begin, Monday or Thursday? There's a big difference in law. We don't keep records. What is the solution if others violate the law? We're going to control the decent citizens more, we're going to collect and exchange data on bus and train drivers, we're going to make a big brother even bigger, because we need to muffle the Mafia and illegal immigration. This is not a good solution, this is not a good solution! It is completely incomprehensible that we are going to manage these things even more centrally. There is no central administration. If we have learned anything from the immigration crisis, it is that the European Union is always snatching power and is not able to do anything with it but screw things up. We have seen this: more power is required to solve anything, but with this power, things are being done only worse, whether it be euro money, immigration or the banking crisis. The real solution, as we all know, we say it once again, is that Estonia's quota must be zero. These people aren't needed here. That's not our problem. We do not need a centrally prescribed number of people to manage here in any way. They don't really have a reason to come here, they don't have a reason to be here, and we don't have to pay them off. If they have left here, all the possibilities in our law should be used, and there are many possibilities so that they can never come back here again. This is our great opportunity not to go along with the choices that the Commission has put into our heads by force, so that we should receive even more of these people and turn our eyes so that this black mass, which has already reached Europe, and an even greater black mass, which is pressing here every day, will be sprayed here for us too. That won't be necessary. The fact that a lot of people are leaving here is no consolation. We've all heard these propaganda calls that you see the Conservatives panicked, but these people aren't so many, and those who came here went away. We're still looking at things from the perspective. Africa's population will grow to 4 billion by the end of the century. Europe's population is more or less at half a billion, in fact it is gradually decreasing. This reduction is slow only because there are already many Muslims in Europe who are very fruitful. This is not a short-term concern that we could report a few months after the crisis broke out that you see, it wasn't so bad. That's crazy. There is no need to hide your head in the sand and live in some fantasy world, claiming that the Germans know better. The Germans know nothing! German intelligence or national security authorities say they have about 6,000 terrorists around! - who have been practicing in Syria and who are wearing a knife to think of Europe. That's what we know. Do they share this information with us? Only if we ask. But what do we ask them? We need to know who to ask. This is the absolute ip that we have to endure all the time with regard to this immigration story. There's only one thing to do. In Estonia, proper border control and border surveillance should be restored. Not only must the eastern border be guarded, but also our ports, because most of these immigrants come to us by boat from Finland and Sweden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U206	Next, please speak to Henn Põllea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U207	We're constantly being multiplied by what you're panicking about, it's only about 550 people, why you spread fear, and why you turn people up. In fact, we know perfectly well that this is just the beginning. As the previous speaker said, there are now 1 billion people in Africa, while by the end of the century there are 4 billion. Already today, there are almost 100 million immigrants, refugees or refugees in the world, as you wish, a very large part of whom is behind Europe's borders. Europe's borders are still open. Frontex and the European military mission, Sophia, are in fact acting directly in the interests of human smugglers, providing transport services to them, free of charge. In addition, there are several humanitarian organisations, some of whom are probably carrying out this work out of a sense of mission, but a large part of them do so with the same money from human smugglers: they bring people from the African coast to Europe, hundreds of miles across the Mediterranean, instead of taking them back to the nearest port. If we ask why they do it, they're lying. It is usually said that Libya does not have a government, that there are no agreements with Libya, that they cannot be returned. It's an extremely lame and cynical lie. Indeed, the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea obliges them to help and rescue them, but it also gives all ships, whether civil or military, the right to enter the territorial waters and ports of another country for peaceful purposes and to rescue and protect them, to bring them to shore. In fact, there is no need for any agreement with Libya or any other southern Mediterranean country, just to comply with existing international laws and conventions. At the end of last week, I was a member of the Estonian delegation in Finland at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean. There was an interesting discussion. The countries on the southern shore wanted immigration to be mentioned everywhere, as illegal, illegal immigration, which must be opposed by all means. Who do you think opposed it? Why was this proposal not adopted? The European Union delegation and a number of European Union countries with Italy were opposed. So the real problem is that illegal money is moving with illegal immigrants. It's useful. Even if this money is not illegal, it will benefit those aid organisations and persons who deal with these persons in different countries, including Estonia. It is a business, it earns money, it involves both advisors and all kinds of legal aid providers who help these beneficiaries to go to court against the Estonian state. We see what it has brought to the rest of the world. Why should Estonia be the one who learns nothing and lets the worst-case scenario go into our own home? The Estonian quota should be zero and we should put an end to these games. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U208	Speech requests are over. I'm gonna finish the seventh question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U209	The eighth inquiry was submitted by members of the Riigikogu Eerik-Niles Kross, Igor Gräzin, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Johannes Kert, Ants Laaneots and Madis Milling on 23 March. This concerns illegal digging of unknown graves by the employees of the PBGB. The number of the inquiry is 341. In the name of the interviewees, please speak to Eerik-Niles Kross. Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U210	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, It's nice to have a conversation with the ladies here. This inquiry concerns cases that have unfortunately occurred relatively frequently in Estonia: skeletons are found in excavation, the digger turns to the police, the police arrives, digs these skeletons themselves and takes them to Tallinn for expertise. There are two laws on such situations. According to the Heritage Protection Act, the excavation work must be stopped in such a case and the Heritage Protection Board informed, where it will come from and whether it will be assessed whether it is a heritage value. If it turns out that this is a war grave, or a grave during World War II, it is covered by a law on the protection of war graves, which does not mention the police at all, and by which it should be decided whether these skeletons are exhumidated. There have been several cases where skeletons have first entered the forensic lab through the police, and only later have they been discovered to be war graves, and even those dead persons who have then been solemnly buried have been identified. This inquiry was prompted by a recent incident in Haljala parish, where seven skeletons were found in the same way during excavation. The police sent them to the forensic lab. It turned out that it was still impossible to say anything but that there were seven persons, which is understandable, because the context of the finding is completely lost in such cases. Then the Department of Defense intervened, tried to find out if it could be the Forest Brothers. Nothing was identified. Finally, when the heritage protection came to an end, it turned out that the skeletons had green stains on them, indicating that there must have been bronze jewelry in the grave. Then it was obvious that these were ancient skeletons. Since these skeletons had been sent to Tallinn with plastic bags, unfortunately there was nothing left of the context, textiles or other such things. It's irreparable damage. Now they can't even identify exactly where these skeletons were found. Now the heritage shield is looking for this potential cemetery. But our questioning is actually, let's say, a positive one. We just wanted to draw attention to this problem. We don't blame the police for anything, and we understand their desire to investigate possible crimes. We're just hoping the Ministry of the Interior is aware of this problem. It should be solved through quite simple training or study days and information exchange. The Minister of the Interior has had quite a long time to think about this problem, and we are happy to hear what he has to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U211	Now Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt has the opportunity to answer the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U212	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this question, seriously. As Minister of the Interior, you often do not see or know that something like this is happening behind these very important tents. Good school buddy, thank you! The other day, when you called me, I immediately contacted the police. Now I will answer the questions in a row, but I would like to point out that, as Minister of the Interior, I have given the PBA a guideline that this issue should be discussed again with the National Heritage Board. But the first question: "What has the Ministry of the Interior done to solve the problem? ' The Ministry of the Interior has direct competence to assess the feasibility and legitimacy of police work and to direct the activities of the institution through development plans, including strategic development plans. It's a general principle. The Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board and his authorised officials are, of course, responsible for direct day-to-day work and communication with other institutions and associations. Nevertheless, we have provided the PBA with a guide to raise awareness and take this issue into account and discuss it with representatives of the National Heritage Board and the Estonian Forensic Institute (EKEI) in order to clarify cooperation in finding unknown graves and bones and to clarify bottlenecks and possible solutions. The second question: 'What do you think is police cooperation with the National Heritage Board? " In general, this cooperation can be considered satisfactory, even good. On 19 January 2016, a detailed cooperation agreement was concluded between the National Heritage Board and the PBGB. The Treaty was initiated by the National Heritage Board. This is also understandable, since the primary task of the police is, however, to prevent, deter and ensure public order. In particular, the cooperation agreement mainly regulated how to work together on issues raised by the National Heritage Board. Since this problem was not specifically raised during the preparation of the Cooperation Agreement, the activities directly related to the finding of skeletons are not covered by the Agreement. However, the existing agreement will certainly not limit the potential for better cooperation in the case of unknown graves. If necessary, the agreement can also be supplemented. Following the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, the National Heritage Board produced training material on the basis of which three trainings were carried out in 2016, involving around 70 police officers. Again, I would like to say that it is a good thing that this problem has been raised, because together with the National Heritage Board, we dealt with diving and such things in the agreement, but we had not talked about the simple graves that have certainly arisen in Estonia because of our geographical location in history. Now it's done. Question 3: "To what extent are experts from the National Heritage Board involved in digging skeletons? ' Of course, the police are ready to include, if the crime scene so requires, the experts of the National Heritage Board. But this is definitely the assumption that they have to be able to react 24 hours a day, if necessary. As the good inquisitor said, it is often impossible to identify whether something is several hundred years old or 50 years old. It depends on the soil and the whole environment where the skeleton has been. Indeed, in such a case, an operational response is needed, otherwise the operationality of police work will suffer. One point that the Police and Border Guard Board must think about is how to better deal with such situations in the future. Question 4: "How thorough are the guidelines on the basis of which the police decide when to involve the National Heritage Board? " The police are primarily guided by the law. According to § 3 (1) of the Police and Border Guard Act, the task of the police is to protect public order, which also includes the identification of bodies of unknown persons and the handling of offences on the basis and in accordance with the procedures laid down by law. To date, no separate guide has been established to include the National Heritage Board. This, again, is one subject that should be discussed. Paragraph 6 of the Code of Criminal Procedure lays down the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings, as a result of which the investigating authorities and the prosecutor's office are obliged to conduct criminal proceedings in the event of the occurrence of a criminal offence, in the absence of circumstances or grounds to exclude criminal proceedings. Yes, if the skeleton is found in my personal experience and there are traces of a possible crime, such as a broken skull or some other characteristic factor, then it is clear that the procedure will, in essence, begin immediately, starting with the observation of the crime scene, which is the first research operation. That is what I have said in my reply. If there is reason to believe that a criminal offence is involved in finding human bones, the police shall immediately start a procedure to identify the presence of the bones, including whether they belong to humans, and to determine the age of those bones and the probable cause of death, a forensic anthropology examination, which is one of the subspecies of medical forensics expertise. In the absence of circumstances suggesting a criminal offence, an administrative procedure shall be initiated under which the same expert assessment shall also be carried out. This will be done if there is no reason to believe that there may be a connection to violence. Unfortunately, we often find the skeleton of a missing person. Some older people have gone into the woods and have sometimes been lost for years, and the bones of such people have also been found. If, for example, the location of the skeleton at the scene shows that it could be a natural death, such as freezing death or whatever, then there will be an administrative procedure. If an examination of the bones reveals or the EKEI detects something suggestive of a crime, for example, traces of a blade are found on a rib, then there is reason to believe that criminal proceedings may be necessary. Now I'm going to this particular Haljala parish case. On 4 July 2016, administrative proceedings were opened at the Rakvere Police Department, since on 29 June at least two people's bones and fragments of bones were found in the soil at a depth of one metre below the asphalted site from Halmõisa village in Lääne-Virumaa rural municipality. Expertise was appointed. According to the expert opinion provided in the medical forensics expert report prepared by EKEI, bones and fragments of bones presented in the expert's expert report belong to at least seven persons. Due to skeleton and bone fragmentation, it is not possible to determine the cause of the death of unknown persons by means of a forensic methodology. Since the bones were free of soft tissue, the time of death of individuals has not been precisely determined. According to visual observation, given the degree of bone survival, it is not excluded that the death of unknown persons could have reached 25 to 75 years before the autopsy. As far as I know, there was no reason to assume that the death of individuals would have been the result of a crime. No criminal proceedings were opened. At the point where bones were found, there was no indication that it could have been an archaeological burial site or a war grave. A copy of the administrative file referred to has been forwarded to the Defence Police Department. The National Heritage Board submitted an explanation request to the PBA and the National Heritage Board was given the above explanations. This case certainly provided sufficient teaching material so that such situations could be reduced or prevented in the future. Last question: 'Compared to the experts of the National Heritage Board, how much training do police officers receive to recognise historically important graves and to excavate skeletons? ' Here I agree with the view expressed in the inquiry that neither the police can be required to acquire expertise in stratigraphy, bone preservation in different environments, etc. There is no provision for such training in isolation, but this does not mean that there is no sense of necessity in the development of cooperation. There could be training for police officers to understand, for example, whether it is necessary to involve a heritage expert in specific circumstances or situations. That's it for me. I'll answer the questions if there are any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U213	Thank you. Indeed, there are questions. First Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Thankfully early and quickly you began to address this problem. You have also rightly pointed out that it is not possible to assume that police officers should be able to judge the remains they have found as an expert. As we know, a new law on heritage conservation is being prepared. Do you think it is necessary for this law to specify more clearly the involvement of the same experts, so that they are called in on time, or do you think it can be regulated in a spirit of good cooperation through a cooperation agreement? Can you at least see the point of discussion here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U215	Thank you. That's a very good question. Actually, I think of one and the other. In order to assess whether something is needed in the law, we must first assess what we have in the law. Why do unfortunate cases such as that of Haljala arise? Could this have been prevented by a cooperation agreement? This cooperation agreement I have ahead of me is very detailed, it is three pages and was signed by the Directors-General Siim Raie and Elmar Vaher a few years ago. There's no direct talk here about cases like this. There is a lot of talk, for example, about underwater monuments, diving, and all that. This gives me such a historical interpretation that, at the time this agreement was made, there was probably a problem with underwater monuments, and that is why this issue was included in the agreement. What I'm trying to say is that there are contacts who should react if necessary. Once again, the moment of truth is at hand, I have given the guidance. It is necessary to analyse and see whether there is a need to regulate something at the level of the law or whether life is constantly changing and such forms of cooperation are therefore better. At the moment, I am indebted to the answer, which has to be dealt with by specialists from both offices. The police detective must look at this from a procedural point of view. If he makes a mistake, the investigation may begin to linger. I mean, at first, you might think that the skeleton has a heritage-protected value, but it's actually, I don't know, the underworld character who's gone missing a few years ago. But it's time. In describing and finding solutions, I would trust specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U216	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U217	Thank you. The answer made a positive impression. It is good that the problem is being dealt with and it is also understood that the problem actually exists. In the case of the current government, it has sometimes been the opposite. So that was a pleasant answer. By the way, I spoke to the National Heritage Board a little while ago. In the meantime, it is claimed that there has been another similar case in Viljandimaa. I will now try to ask two questions quickly. First of all, you quoted something here whether it was some kind of procedural law or a code of conduct that described police action. Couldn't there be a point in the fact that the police also have to inform the National Heritage Board about the skeletons found at the excavation site if the digger doesn't? Secondly, do you happen to have any statistics on how many cases there are each year? If that happens every day, it's obvious that the National Heritage Board won't be able to deal with all of them, but if that happens, I don't know, once a month, then...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U218	I owe you an answer to that question. I can get you this information about how many such cases have occurred in a year, for example, it is not difficult at all. As regards the procedure in which to sign up, I would like to emphasise that the Code of Criminal Procedure, which I quoted, lays down the principle of the mandatory nature of criminal proceedings, which means that the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office are obliged to bring criminal proceedings if the circumstances of the crime arise. Maybe I'm linguistically critical of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but it's a very dry law, and I can't talk about such nuances. He's making a commitment to the police that if there are signs of a crime, you don't have to waste time. When we talk about all the responsibilities that the police have in these proceedings, i.e. public order and, for example, identification of unknown persons and the dead, I can say that they are enshrined in the Police and Border Guard Act. Yeah, it might as well be a place to write it down. Although it seems to me that it is my very subjective opinion that it is better to regulate such matters through the involvement of each other's experts by putting it in administrative cooperation agreements, for example. Life is very different: when something is written into the law, but the circumstances change and go a little differently, the law no longer answers them. But again, I'd trust specialists here. With regard to the number of such procedures and, if necessary, the activities that the police are planning and launching on the basis of the guidelines of the Minister of the Interior, I am happy to send you further information.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U219	Any more questions? No, it's not. In that case, thank you very much to the answer to the question. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. In that case, the eighth inquiry is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-15_U220	Now, once again, after the hammer hit, it is a pleasant opportunity to register as a speaker in a free microphone. As has been the case in recent weeks, this option will remain for weeks to come. Thank you very much, everyone. Today's trial is over. Closure of the sitting at 20:31 a.m.
