ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Happy Women's Day, everybody! Question Time. Incoming check, please! At the moment, 43 members of the Riigikogu registered their presence in the plenary. Among the members of the government are Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna and Minister of Public Administration Mikhail Korb. As a result of the requests made yesterday, I will give both the questioner and the entire Chamber the opportunity to submit two additional questions to the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U2	The first questioner is Jaak Madison and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U3	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister, Happy Women's Day to all female members of your cabinet! My question, however, is not about today's beautiful day, but about the e-vote. If I remember correctly, in spring 2015, the Central Party Council decided that they would not support the e-voting system. We all know in this Chamber that this has been one of the flag letters of the Central Party for many years. Your party has criticised the e-voting system and has requested its annulment. A few days ago, however, we heard from your speech in the media that you have never allowed an e-vote to be cancelled. My question is, from what point of view has the Centre Party changed its position, and from which it has driven it to do so. Secondly, are you not the chairman of the Centre Party, who should represent the party's positions, rather than make personal promises?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U4	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu and a good questioner! Allow me, too, to wish the most beautiful members of the Riigikogu, respected women and good guests a beautiful Women's Day first. Thank you for your question. This is a very serious issue. Your question consisted of several parts, I'll start at the end of it. I very much hope, and I would also give God that we each still have our own thinking. Despite the fact that even someone's penguin here in the Riigikogu is chairman of a political group, if, for example, there is such a case, I hope that we all still have our own personal thinking. We are based on what is important to the people of Estonia and to the state of Estonia, and we also try to learn and become smarter and better every day. You asked about the decision of the Central Party Council. I took another look at it this morning. This decision was taken on 11 April 2015. The Central Party Council has praised a large number of e-solutions that are used in Estonia. I'm not going to talk about them any further, I'm just over-marking. I will bring, for example, digital prescriptions that have made medicines available to people much faster, more operational and more conveniently, the e-Tax Board, which I think has done a very good job (this is what we will see when we fill out the tax return), as well as the e-solutions of the banks. If we come to the e-elections, there really is a decision that the Centre Party does not support e-elections and thinks that their security needs to be improved. I fully agree with the idea that any cyber risks must be made as minimal as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U5	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U6	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Of course, personal thinking is elementary; it is a value in itself that must be preserved. You know very well, as chairman of the Centre Party, that the decisions of the Council are, however, compulsory in certain positions; they must also be represented and defended in this Chamber. Therefore, as party chairman, you should certainly follow the decision of the Council. As for your talk about the e-sickness fund and the e-Tax Board, it is the same demagoguery as the Reform Party said. However, we are talking about elections that are very clearly defined by the Constitution. As a result of the Constitution, elections must be secret. How is it ensured that the e-vote is secret?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U7	Thank you. Well, with that question, we're getting to the right end of the line. It is indeed necessary to ensure that e-elections are secret, constitutional, general, uniform, etc. But I think here we can fix something every day to make e-elections safer. Recently there have been examples in the USA, but also here in Estonia, that once voted, say, via a network or a list, it has not been secure enough. I think we all agree that these votes must be made safer. Cyber defence must always be ahead of the cyber risks. You asked about what we could do together. All kinds of systems have to withstand different attacks. We must test ourselves proactively whether or not these systems can withstand cyber attacks. International cooperation and our internal cooperation are also very important here. I think that it is in cyber defence that Estonia has taken a very strong step forward, and that is why we have been many of the leaders, shaping the international cyber defence centre and the direction of cyber defence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U8	Jaak Madison, the second question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U9	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I am very pleased that you also introduced the issue of the need for cooperation with other countries when talking about cyber security. Please give an example of a country with which we can work at a good level in the development of e-votes, i.e. give an example of countries that have been allowed to vote digitally in elections in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U10	Thank you. This question, I think, relates to the priorities of the Estonian Presidency. One of these is a very clear digital approach. Here we have a big wish. I think there is a good solution in the Estonian country, which we all have in our pockets and which we use quite diligently every day. It's an ID card. We want the system based on an ID-card to be improved so that we can make decision-making more convenient and operational in very many organisational matters, so that it is not only a matter for the Estonian state, but also an international matter that works between different countries. I am pleased that yesterday there was very positive news from the Republic of Finland, where the President of the Republic of Estonia and his Finnish counterpart signed another step in the development of the X-Road and e-Services. Your question was also about which countries are interested in this issue. I believe that here in this honourable Riigikogu, where many foreign delegations and international cooperation partners go to the government, there is always one issue that is asked about, the whole issue of e-elections and e-services, how the Estonian state has managed to bring these things to the current level and whether we can gain good experience. Estonia will be happy to share these experiences with our cooperation partners and all those interested.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U11	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister, how do you comment on Jaanus Kariladi's statement yesterday that the e-voting period will be shortened? Is it true that you intend to shorten the time when people will be able to vote on e-voting? What is the reason for this and how do you think it could and could be linked to the image of Estonia's e-governance? Whatever corner of the world we walk in, we see that our image as an e-state is extremely positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U13	Thank you. I think that you and I share the desire that more and more Estonian people take part in the elections, be they local government elections, elections to the Riigikogu or elections to the European Parliament. I will simply give some examples in the language of the figures: while in 2005 less than 2% of all voters voted electronically, in 2013 21% voted electronically and in the last elections to the Riigikogu more than 30% of all those who took part in the vote. The coalition has agreed that e-elections will remain, they will not disappear. In our view, in the opinion of all coalition partners, the security aspect is still crucial throughout the electoral procedure, including in the case of e-voting. On the one hand, it is important from the point of view of the individual, on the other hand, it is important from the point of view of standing up against the same cyber attacks that Mr Madison, a member of the Riigikogu, asked about. Can the e-vote period be shortened? It is now foreseen that there will be a pre-election before the election day. From the sixth to the fourth day before the election day, the vote shall take place at the polling station of the place of residence and from the tenth to the seventh day at the county centre station where everyone can vote. True, it has been said that elections should be made more uniform, more similar in terms of the campaign, but it has never been said, for example, to abolish e-elections on the sixth, fifth or fourth day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U14	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U15	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! I'm going to be more specific. We do not all want as many people as possible to take part in the elections, but we want as many people as possible to understand what they are voting for or against in the elections. That's why we're barbecuing you here today. It has become clear to me in these hundred days that the position of the Centre Party depends on its seat. When you were in opposition, you had one opinion on the e-elections, but now in the coalition or in the government, you have another opinion. We were talking about security here. The most important thing is that the result of the election is observable and verifiable. It is not when someone says that believe us, we have read the voices correctly, but it must be possible to go and see that the voices are correctly counted. How will this shortening of time improve controlability, especially in the case of e-elections, or will there be any other measures to improve controlability?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U16	Thank you for that question. I'm sure you're a good politician, Martin Helme, but I'm not gonna take that as a barbecue. On the contrary, I think it is very important to have a discussion and discussion on e-elections here. In my opinion, we are on the same side: elections must be made safer and this must be achieved, as you have already said, so that the control mechanism is improved in any case. What can be done, and what can be considered? This is, of course, the decision of the Riigikogu. But there is, for example, one possibility that, by the way, existed in the 2005 local elections as well as in the 2007 Riigikogu elections. It was about the election day, the main day, Sunday. Personally, I'm also saying that election day, when they dress up like a party, is like a party day. Then there will be a vote and serious participation, I would say, not in representative democracy, but precisely in participatory democracy, which is, I think, much more important. However, one might consider that on election day, for example, there would be a right to vote on the e-voice that he has given. That would be one way to make the system more manageable. As I said, this system was in force both in the 2005 and 2007 elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U18	The next question is for the Minister of Public Administration, Mikhail Korb. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hope that you will agree with me that the Council will do very good expert work. Perhaps it is sometimes unclear that its recommendations on the names of the merging parishes have been made in several stages, that it is the first, second, third and fourth choices. When selecting the councils, they often first exclude existing names, which are often the best, and choose this third-fourth one, saying that it was not prohibited. I think this has caused quite a lot of confusion. In the next stages of the administrative reform, will the Government of the Republic have the opportunity to take better account of the positions of the local naming council so that the ancient parish names from our map do not disappear or replace the neutral names referring to the weather?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U20	Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear questioner, thank you for your question. Indeed, in the course of the administrative reform, the House Names Council did a very good and good job. He advised all the merging municipalities and made recommendations to them in order to select the best name. During this process, there were disagreements between the local council and the local authorities, which indicated that the council did not approve the name chosen by any local authority. That was the case in seven cases. All seven cases were also dealt with at its meeting by the Government of the Republic, which twice discussed the proposals and made its decisions by the Council. In five cases the Council's opinion was taken into account and the names proposed were confirmed, in two cases the name proposed by the municipality was retained.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm going to be specific. We just had a meeting with the people of the House Names Council, and it turned out there were a lot of concerns. Perhaps the most remarkable examples are the name of Lääneranna rural municipality, also the question of whether Võnnu or Kastre rural municipality will remain, and also the name of Mulgi rural municipality, which according to the House Names Council is misleading, this is misleading, because the territory of Mulgimaa does not overlap with the territory of this emerging municipality. Is there any hope for a better outcome here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U23	Thank you for your question. At the moment, the names of the municipalities you asked about have been confirmed. If the opinions of the Council are divided into three groups, one large group can first be mentioned: the names chosen by the municipalities and approved by the Council. The second group may include names which, in the opinion of the Council, were not best suited, but it was not against them either. As a third group, the names to which the Council was totally opposed, figuratively speaking, can be mentioned. Only these seven names were discussed in the Government of the Republic. These names, which were part of the first or second group, i.e. they were either suitable or partly suitable for the name council, were approved by the Government of the Republic. I'd place the name of the western beach parish in a different group. The Council considered that this was not the best choice, as the name of the municipality does not indicate exactly where the municipality is located or so on. The only name that really went through the discussion and was one of the so-called unauthorized or uncoordinated names was the name of Mulgi rural municipality. The names proposed by the name committee were found to be too complex. Another reason why the opinion of the Council was not taken into account was that the population considered that there was no problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U24	Thank you. I would ask the Minister to answer the question within two minutes. Andres Herkel, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Why are we making such a bad reform that we will not listen to experts when it is absolutely necessary? We may also go so far as to establish the right language rules for a council or minister, but that would not be a very wise way. During the 1938 reform, there was some wisdom. Have you compared these two reforms from the point of view of naming them? What instructive conclusions can we draw from this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U26	Thank you. There hasn't been an analysis that goes this far in history. The government's first priority was to take into account the name agreed upon by the council. Secondly, the opinion of the House Names Council was certainly taken into account. I certainly cannot agree with the fact that decisions taken by the House Names Board would not have been taken into account or taken on the basis of these proposals. In five cases where the names proposed by the municipalities were not compatible with good practice or with historical labels or other distinguishing signs, the opinion of the House Name Board was fully taken into account. The government also conducted interviews in places where he needed further information. For example, the Setomaa survey that the government wanted to find out whether people really wanted the Setomaa municipality to be formed. The Government of the Republic, led by the Ministry, conducted a survey and made its decision on the basis of the results of the survey and proposed the formation of the Setomaa rural municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U27	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U28	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! If the parties to the emerging municipality wish to change the current name, what is the last point, when can this proposal be addressed to the government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U29	Honourable questioner! In my opinion, no such precise deadline has been set or prescribed anywhere. I think that for each merger, the history of the merging parishes will be dealt with and their own wishes and the opinion of the name committee will be taken into account. Unfortunately, the name issue is indeed one of the most emotional problems that has arisen during the administrative reform. But unfortunately, it is very difficult to put forward objective arguments in favour of one name or another or, unfortunately, because naming is a cognitive question and which is not suitable for one, it is suitable for another. There are many parties to the birth of every new municipality. Figuratively speaking, if you choose a child's name with the whole parish, then surely not everyone can be satisfied with that name. I think there are a number of aspects that need to be considered here, but I once again assure you that the opinion of the House Names Council is very important to the government, that the opinion of these people is taken into account and that these decisions are certainly not taken lightly or superficially.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U30	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have just said that the recommendations and decisions of the Council will be taken into account. That's why I'm asking. The cultural name of the parish is Võnnu. The local naming council certainly recommended keeping Võnnu's name, but the government found that Kastre was better because the merging municipalities chose the name Kastre. When we decide on names, do we still take into account the opinion of this council, which includes specialists who know the cultural story and our folk tradition and know all traditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U32	Thank you for your question. I'm coming back to those three groups where I grouped names. I repeat that there are names in the first group approved by the Council, there are names in the second group for which the Council had better proposals, but it did not oppose these names either, and in the third group there are names for which the Council was totally opposed. The council on the Kastre parish really found that the other name was better, but neither did the Council on the name of Kastre. The council said the name of the Kastre parish could be, but there are better options. Since the Council did not resolutely say that they opposed this name, as they had done in the case of seven names, the government decided to follow the proposal of the councils and confirmed the name of Kastre.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U34	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U35	Thank you. Prime Minister! The Reform Party has always stood for the Estonian business environment to work and the tax environment to support the business environment. Looking at the last or rather first steps of your government, I am thinking of pushing through a bunch of taxes, and inside and under the shadow of gas excise duties and alcohol excise duties, we can see that they will certainly worsen the business environment. The Chancellor of Justice has said that changing excise duties on alcohol may be contrary to the Constitution, and he has therefore proposed that the Riigikogu terminate it in breach of the Constitution. What is the position of the Prime Minister, whether or not this point is in conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U36	Thank you very much, good questioner. You started your question by recognising that the Reform Party has always stood up for the success of the business environment. I dare say that the current government is doing the same. So the right direction here is to ask you for good cooperation and good proposals. The business environment creates jobs and a better capacity for Estonia. You said 'last steps' and then you corrected that these were still the first steps. In this sense, you are right that, in order to improve the business environment, the current government is taking its first steps and much remains to be done. Now I am talking about excise duty on alcohol and excise policy at all and about improving the business environment. A concrete example is the increase in excise duty on diesel, which was expected to come at the beginning of next year, and which caused resentment in a very large number of operators. Today, it can be said that the government has canceled this rise. Or the rate of VAT on accommodation, which was to rise to 14% at the beginning of this year. The current government has said that accommodation is an important business and economic sector and we want tourists to come here and the people of Estonia to get more work and security. We will cancel this increase; VAT will not be 14% in the future, but 9%. As regards excise duties on alcohol, I believe that both the Chancellor of Justice and a large number of specialists in constitutional law have actually said one thing: there is a need for legal clarity. I think that if legal clarity comes from the courts, it is not bad at all. Legal clarity is very important to all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U37	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U38	Thank you. I also believe that, if tax laws are adopted without any prior warning and without ignoring the deadlines in the law, it is not only a question of constitutional debate , that the Chancellor of Justice was to raise this issue, it was very correct, but it is also a question of the credibility of the business environment. I see that the country that was when you became Prime Minister, the sixth country in terms of economic freedom all over the world, can be hit very hard by steps that are unexpectedly worsening the business environment. I hope to get an informative answer to my question. I really want to know what's become of your plan to introduce a car tax. It's like you said you'd give it up, but it's also said it's on the agenda again. What happened to the car tax? Is it coming or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U39	Thank you. I don't know if it was wrong for you to use words. Of course, I don't think so. But I don't think a country can run a business environment. The business environment is still run by businesses themselves. I very much hope that the Estonian state will never write down any steps for the business environment. What can the state do? In my opinion, the state can create a good framework, a solid foundation. The state can make every effort to have enough good specialists, whether at vocational school or university level. I still think it is important that there should be a serious discussion and cooperation between the business environment and the state, not that the state should start writing something about entrepreneurs. But now your question about car tax. Yeah, the government said there wasn't enough time left to analyze, there was too little time. As far as this year's budget is concerned, we are withdrawing this proposal. The government said something else, was your argument. Yes, he said with great certainty that it had to be thought through. As is the case in Estonia: serious measurements must be made nine times and then a decision must be made once. We have discussed these issues in the office and will continue to do so in mid-March. So this debate is ongoing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U40	Hanno Pevkur, please, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U41	Thank you. Prime Minister! I would point out that it is the state that is creating an entrepreneurial environment, the environment in which entrepreneurs are delivering, that is the legal space. Yes, it is difficult for the state to develop entrepreneurship and the country should play a minimal role here. The main role of the state should be to ensure that this environment is as liberal as possible and suitable for businesses. I'll even give you a little reading recommendation. There's a very good book called Why Nations File. It sets out, on the basis of history, what is the task of the state in shaping the business environment so that countries and nations do not fail. But I come back to the business environment and its well-being: what is your plan for patching up a possible revenue gap after possible legal disputes over alcohol excise duty and gas excise duty?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U42	Thank you. I'm glad you explained this to the previous questioner. I fully agree with you. Of course, what I meant was that the state was helping to shape the business environment, but then we were talking with the previous questioner. First of all, this excise duty on diesel, which you have asked about, is beautifully included in the 2017 budget. Speaking of excise duties on alcohol, I think you indicated that if the Supreme Court's decision comes, it could lead to a budget gap. I will start with why this issue of alcohol excise is important to the current government. Of course, it is important to stand up for public health, to ensure that people in Estonia consume less alcohol, and also to ensure that the proportion of excise duty in the price of lean and strong alcohol is equal. Let me give you an example. If we raise the excise duty on strong alcohol by 10%, it will make the price of the final product more expensive by 7%, but if we increase the excise duty on lean alcohol by 10%, then it will only affect the final price by 2%. The Chancellor of Justice has pointed out one more thing: a fixed-term excise policy is not sensible, because every new government must retain the right to change the policy of previous governments. I would say that the new Riigikogu must also retain this opportunity. However, if the Supreme Court's decision is to produce such a result, which means that the government will naturally raise the subject on the table, prepare the solution and ask the Riigikogu to approve it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U43	Hanno Pevkur, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U44	Thank you. You mentioned public health. There is certainly a clear link between public health and the price of alcohol. But the hard fact is, of course, that your alcohol policy makes it many times cheaper to get drunk than lean alcohol. I understand that you, i.e. the government in office, want to make people drink more vodka instead of lean alcohol. As a message, it seems that way, though, of course, it would be good if people did not drink at all. Speaking of the business environment, I would like to know your assessment of one more thing. You said you wanted to cooperate. We are very happy to agree. This cooperation could consist in canceling the increase in alcohol duty in this form. You mentioned diesel, but actually, my question was about gas excise, which is an alcohol excise analogue. It would also be possible to cooperate if you were to cancel the bank tax. When the bank tax is imposed, the DNB and Nordea Ühispank threaten not to bring their head office to Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U45	What's the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U46	The proposal in the form of a question is this: how do you see this good cooperation, are you prepared to cancel these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U47	Thank you. I'll start at the beginning. You had so many statements, I'm trying to respond quickly. I fully agree that there is a strong link between alcohol policy and health. We, too, see this connection, and here I fully agree with you. You went on to say such a line that the current government seems to be calling on people to drink more alcohol. On the contrary, I repeat: it is the Government's wish that alcohol consumption should be reduced and that access to alcohol would be worse in Estonia and that public health would be improved. That is the purpose of all this policy. You indicated that the new coalition has decided to propose an increase in the tax-free minimum. In this sense, you are right that, from the beginning of next year, the people of Estonia who earn 1200 euros or less and who are in the order of 65% will win. In fact, there are some 88% of the people who are going under this new income tax exemption system, and this limit is EUR 1776. All these people win. Perhaps, indeed, a good questioner, you have the idea that if those people who get EUR 1200 or less pay earn EUR 64 more each month, they will buy alcohol for it. I think they do not buy alcohol, but they increase their social security through a better food basket. But the government is raising alcohol excise. If your fear is that people will consume more alcohol due to an increase in the tax-free minimum, then I would say that on the contrary, we have proposed that it be more difficult to obtain alcohol and that alcohol is more expensive to keep people healthy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U48	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U49	Thank you, Chairman. Prime Minister! Since your government published its economic programme and pushed through the first tax increases, I have heard only criticism from businesses. Let me give you an example. At the end of January, Janek Stalmeister, Chairman of the Board of Tallink, said that it was not possible to make new investments in the business environment created by the new political power. However, this is precisely the area affected by the things you emphasised, such as VAT or excise duties on diesel in accommodation facilities. Tallink also has a considerable hotel economy. Can you give an example of a stock exchange or a larger company that thinks that due to your government's economic policy...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U50	Thanks, time's up!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U51	... may they consider expanding their activities, creating new jobs and new investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U52	Thank you, good questioner! That is a very legitimate question. Of course, it is the responsibility of the members of the government to explain their steps to the members of the Riigikogu and also to the Estonian public. I will start with this very tourism sector. How much these entrepreneurs said that the rise in VAT hits the Estonian tourism sector very strongly. They asked not to increase VAT from 9% to 14%. Or rather, they asked the new government to reverse the tide. That's what we did. Another thing that has been mentioned for years in the case of one business sector is that more conference tourists are needed here, there would also be more consumption here, but that requires investing in a city hall. You asked for concrete examples. This is not just the work of the current government, but I say that we have continued to work, which has been done by many previous governments and Riigikogu formations: it is the same connecting Estonia with Rail Baltic, so that we have a better economic environment and we are more closely connected. This direction and this work will continue. It is not always necessary to do all things again, even the previous government or the former government and, of course, the previous Riigikogu formations have taken the right steps. Good questioner, this list could be very long, but my time is almost up. One more thing may be: more jobs need to be created in the shipping and maritime sectors. The chairman of your party also explained this aspect of the business environment beautifully to Taavi Rõivas. It is necessary to create an entrepreneurial environment here so that cargo ships come back under the Estonian flag. These were some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U54	The next question is for Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U55	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to congratulate and congratulate the Minister for Defence for his very good work so far. But I have a question about people in active service in our Defence Forces and the Defence League. Our tasks are growing all the time, our defence budget has also increased gradually. But we have a maximum number of persons in active service, I am thinking in particular of the Defence League. The situation has come so far that it is a brake for the further development of our defence forces. I'm just wondering what the prospects are. Are there plans to increase the number of active employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U56	Thank you, good questioner! Thank you very much for the good words you rarely hear! But first of all, I congratulate all women and, as Minister of Defence, I particularly congratulate those women who contribute to the protection of Estonia. It's a little bit of a question. Women who participate in the Defence Forces as professional members of the Defence Forces or act as volunteers are gaining more and more. Women's home security is a very powerful organisation, and we are expecting more and more women for military service. One more news. Indeed, the Defence Forces are certainly one of the institutions where there is no pay gap between men and women. So the Defence Forces are a role model for everyone here. Now, good questioner, some figures. The question is very relevant, because our tasks are growing. I have confirmed the plan for defence spending for the next four years and the government has approved the plan for defence for the next ten years. Indeed, the real defence capabilities that have been targeted are guaranteed by the financial side. Human resources are very important. I'll get some numbers. Currently, there are 3252 active troops in active service, and our plan is to find another 100 people this year, the limit is this. The direction is that by 2026 we want to reach 3,800 active troops. These are the objectives, and these figures are calculated to meet our needs as well. This year, we need to fill 100 executive posts. This step should go 50 at a time, but our tasks are increasing quite rapidly, thanks to the allies coming here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U57	Henn Põllaas, please, the first point to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U58	Thank you. That's very good to hear. But I'm still interested in the share of Defence Forces officers in the Defence League's chess. This number would probably need an increase. Membership is constantly growing, work assignments are also constantly growing, and a great deal of work that could be done by chess and professionals will inevitably become the responsibility of volunteers and will remain the responsibility of them. Unfortunately, bureaucracy and all these things sometimes take away motivation. How are these trends in the Defence League?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U59	Thank you, good questioner! I congratulate you again on your question. The Defence League is a very important and natural part of our defence capabilities. Information so well that there are now 206 operatives in the Defence League. The plan is to increase this figure to 232 over the next few years. We're actually putting more of that resource in there. I have confirmed the financing plan for the next four years, which envisages a substantial addition to the Defence Union. Five defense companies are planning to build more in four years. The money to be added to improve equipment and capacity is in the order of EUR 60 million, which is a significant amount. Support from the Defence League, which is paid to be delivered on a daily basis, will also increase each year in the order of EUR 1 million, or more than 4 million in total. We are fully aware that the Defence League, which is, of course, a voluntary organisation in which people express their voluntary desire for protection and where they contribute primarily to their time, plays a very important military role in a war situation. In this sense, professional cooperation and manhood with both men and women are very important. So the financial side has to come back.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U60	Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U61	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The Government of the Republic is responsible for the preparation and organisation of national defence following the amendment of the set of national defence laws. In 2013, the military structure of the armed forces was reorganized, or rather demolished. It is now the case that, against the background of two Defence Forces brigades, the Defence League is essentially entrusted with the task of the army: it must fully man four defence districts and establish territorial defence. Defence personnel, which must be professionally created in peacetime and prepared for peace and wartime leadership, are currently absent because the Defence League is unable to man them due to the lack of officers' frame. Is the Minister aware of the problems of the defence forces' management systems, especially the problems of wartime management? If so, what do I think he's going to do to solve the biggest defense problem? I'm talking about personnel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U62	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, reform has been carried out in the Defence Forces. I am delighted that we do not draw our ability to act in wartime on paper, nor do we direct troops that do not really exist, but have an honest picture of what our real capacity and what real plans are. The same ten-year defence plan, which the government has confirmed, shows very clearly the direction in which we need to develop and how much we need to contribute. It is very important how much we, as a society, are actually able to contribute. I want to thank the entire Estonian people for having our defence spending this year at 2.17% of GDP. This is also what politicians use when they go around talking about how much has been achieved, but in fact it shows the willingness of society to defend, that we allocate so much of our national budget and GDP for defence. This is also a very strong argument at international level. Let's look at the financial side. Indeed, both a four-year plan and a ten-year plan foresee that we will actually contribute to the development of another brigade. As I mentioned, a four-year plan has included the improvement of the Defence League's defence capabilities through the creation and financing of five new defense companies, as well as the improvement of real capabilities and equipment. Finally, I say that we must be honest with ourselves. Let's not draw paper after what we don't have, but make plans based on what we have and what we can actually use in a war situation! Then we won't have to discover that there is a capacity on paper, but there isn't one in real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U63	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U64	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you another question. Indeed, for three years in a row, Estonia's defence expenditure has been more than 2% of GDP; it has increased every year. Now is the time when the government is drawing up the country's budget strategy, preparing and negotiating with the Minister of Finance. I have a very simple question: can you promise the Estonian public that defence spending in 2018 will not only be higher in absolute terms than in 2017, which is self-evident, but that the percentage of GDP will also be higher than in the budget for this year, which was made by the previous government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U65	Thank you, good questioner! I am really glad that these years of efforts, which have also been made by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to make it clear that defence expenditure must be at least 2% of GDP, have borne fruit, and the Estonian state has achieved this. I assure you, we will hold on to what we have achieved. We have also clearly stated in the document on the basis of the security policy that Estonia's defence expenditure is at least 2% of GDP. Moreover, the reception costs of the allies, and this important decision taken by the current government, have not been taken in the past, is that the defence investment programme will receive an amount of EUR 60 million over the next three years. I assure you that next year, Estonia's defence expenditure will be at least 2% of GDP. But to avoid spreading false news again, I would stress that next year's estimated defence expenditure is 2.2%, not 2.17% of GDP. So, good former Prime Minister, I would like to say that the plan of this government is to actually increase the cost of defence next year. As Minister of Defence, I say that our objective should be even greater. So next year, defence expenditure is not only nominally higher, but also in percentage terms higher than this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U66	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U67	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U68	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister! One shameful story is related to Estonian agriculture, it is called Tartu Agro case. In 1999/2000, nearly 3,000 hectares of land in the Tähtvere area was taken away, saying that it would be used in the public interest. This land was taken from people and given to Tartu Agro. In 2014, a number of legal experts and officials found that a discretionary error had been committed and that these public interests had not been implemented. As Prime Minister, would you tell me what these public interests are, why this state-owned country is still in the hands of Tartu Agro today? Shouldn't the owners who took the land from be excused? It would be even better to give back this land.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U69	Thank you, good questioner! There were congratulations on women's day, but if you don't mind, I would like to congratulate all the members and supporters of the Free Party. I read the news that you volunteered to join the Free Party. I hope there wasn't an arthur-talking trick here, like somebody was walking into it under compulsion. So you have the strength and I wish you all the best! But all right, I'm coming to see Tartu Agro. You understand very well that there are certain restrictions on access to these documents. I know that the Free Party asked the Minister for Rural Affairs a written question yesterday, and I am sure the Minister for Rural Affairs will also answer that question. I believe that this will also provide clarity on the case of Tartu Agro. But I want to contradict one argument. On the basis of the information that I have, I can say that the Ministry of Rural Affairs is not currently negotiating the renewal of the lease agreement, it is the agreement that was concluded in 2000 for 25 years. This has been one of the questions that the public has been interested in whether or not such negotiations are currently being conducted. On the other hand, it is also a question of market prices, what was the market price at the time, in the opinion of one party in 2000 and in the view of the other party. If you're wondering if I've done any research into these market prices, I'll say I've trusted the opinion of the specialists at the Ministry of Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U70	Arthur Talvik, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U71	My point, however, is: what is the public interest in using this land? As we know, this is also the reason why the European Commission has started the procedure for monitoring illegal State aid when it comes to the rental price. The current rental price of Tartu Agro is 26 euros per hectare, while the statistical average is almost nine times higher. Once again, what are these public interests and should these people not be excused or given back the land?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U72	Thank you. In this respect, you are right to have a complaint lodged with the European Commission in 2014 that the land was leased at a price below the market price, which may constitute unlawful State aid. The European Commission asked Estonia for further information in 2014 and 2015. As far as I am aware, at the beginning of this year, in February, the Commission started an investigation procedure during which the Ministry of Rural Affairs had to provide additional information. The Ministry of Rural Affairs has provided these data to the European Commission and has taken the view that there is no illegal State aid. At the end of the formal investigation procedure, the Commission takes one of four decisions. First of all, this is not aid. Secondly, it is compatible aid. That would be a positive decision, at least from the ministry's point of view. Third, it is compatible aid subject to certain conditions. That would be a conditional decision. The fourth option is that it constitutes incompatible aid. It would be a negative decision in the eyes of the Ministry. I guess we'll have to wait for that decision. As far as I am aware, the Ministry of Rural Affairs is preparing answers to the Commission's additional questions, which is exactly one month.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U73	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! Thank you, Minister of State Administration Mikhail Korb! Thank you, Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U74	We will start the 7th working week session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U75	Mr President! Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to make two inquiries on behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group. (If it is possible to hand them over at the same time. I suppose it is, although I've never done it before.) These enquiries are linked by the fact that both concern administrative-territorial reform and Tartu County. However, these are inherently different problems. Firstly, the question of Luunja municipality, which, according to our understanding, meets all the criteria set out in the Administrative Division of the Estonian territory Act, which are characteristic of one well-functioning municipality. There will be an increase in the population and, if there are 5,000 inhabitants now, there will be soon enough. The second problem relates to the Tartumaa Peipsi area. It mostly concerns the ancient parish of Kodavere, where the situation is much sadder. As we know, the city of Kallaste is a municipality that is heavily indebted, and any coercion with another municipality would appear to be a punishment for the other. What solutions does the government see here? Apart from everything else, as I said, it is a historic parish of Kodavere, but one part of Vara rural municipality is located outside it and, despite the merger during the collective season, the two communities have not really grown together so far. It would also make sense to go down the path of self-deciding in the villages. Some of the villages would like to join the municipality of Tartu. So here are two major complexes of problems. We hope that the Minister for Public Administration will come and respond to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U76	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs, I am honoured to pass on the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act. The amendment of the Railway Act is due to the need to clarify the provisions to be transposed in the railway system of the European Parliament and of the Council on the certification of train drivers operating locomotives and trains in the Community and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a single European railway area. The European Commission has drawn attention to the non-immediate transposition of the provisions. As a matter of fact, the amendments have a significant impact and do not require a change in the behaviour of the addressee of the rule. The Public Transport Act implements Regulation No 181/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U78	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have two draft laws to hand over, the first of which has been signed by representatives of all the political groups, to a total of 14 parliamentarians. It provides for a change of traffic law to allow robot motorists to drive on the sidewalks. Today, governments find it difficult to keep up with innovation and to prepare all laws proactively. The aim of the draft is that we at least do not become a brake and help the activities of innovative companies in Estonia. The so-called last-mile parcel delivery, whether it is the home transportation of packages from a distance or the shopping that has become a daily habit for all of us, accounts for 20 to 40% of the total cost of delivery. The tendency is that robots could be used in this sector to reduce this cost. In 10 years, according to various estimates, up to 80% of this last piece of parcel delivery could be done by robots. The second draft law is a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws, initiated by three political groups: the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Social Democratic Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The aim of the draft is to make electronic elections and paper elections more uniform. Regulations may be amended as necessary and taking into account constitutional electoral principles. § 60 (1) and § 156 (1) of the Constitution lay down the principle of uniform elections. It requires voters to be able to vote in the same conditions as possible. But the longer the voting period, the more the voting conditions differ. For example, the election campaign for election day has lasted longer than the beginning of the pre-vote. This is why shortening the voting time will help to create more similar conditions for voters to vote. According to the draft, the electoral laws harmonise the length of the pre-voting period, regardless of whether voting takes place electronically or in the polling district. Pre-voting shall take place from the sixth to the fourth day before the election day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U80	I have adopted three drafts and two inquiries. According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we'll get on with them. Incoming check, please! 83 members of the Riigikogu are presently present in the plenary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U81	Dear Riigikogu, we will continue in the same place as yesterday's working day ended. The first reading of the draft Act on Supplementing the Social Tax Act, which was initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, continues. The speeches of the political groups were halfway through. Not to mention Mikhail Stalnukhin's speech, but Mikhail Stalnukhin has changed his mind today. There's no more calls. Honourable Riigikogu, the proposal of the commission is to reject Bill 364 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs 364 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 50 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal of the Monetary Commission and 8 against, with no abstentions. Draft 364 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U82	The next item is the third reading of the draft law 320 on amendments to the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, Bill 320 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, so we do a verification of the presence. Currently there are 62 members of the Riigikogu and no 39. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Tax Organisation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the draft law amending other laws 320. Please take a stand and vote. There were 54 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the bill as 320 laws, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Tax Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U83	The next item is 'Criminal policy developments until 2018'. Annual Implementation Report 2016'. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice at the Speaker's Office, will be present. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U84	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has adopted developments in criminal policy until 2018. This means that Parliament will need to confirm new developments over the next year. It is a very serious development document with real impact, as it also provides the representative of the people's community with input on how national prosecutions and police authorities realise the priorities of the state's criminal policy. Last year, a number of issues were of great importance for the effectiveness of criminal policy: dangerous criminals, drunk drivers, juvenile offenders. Support and protection of victims of crime also played an important role, with particular emphasis on victims of violence against women and children. On these issues, the procedure of the drafts is still pending in the Riigikogu this year. The central objective of criminal policy is to reduce crime, with an emphasis on reducing recidivism or reclusive crime. I am pleased to say to Parliament that the number of registered crimes continues to decrease. This time we got rid of number three in the number of registered crimes, that figure was less than 30,000. It's a big psychological victory. The number of registered crimes decreased by 11% in 2016. The concern of the Estonian people for crime has also remained so small that it is almost not there. In autumn 2016, only 3% of Estonian people found crime to be the main concern facing the state. I would remind you that ten years ago, there were 15 times as many as 45% of these people. Internationally, the main indicator for the spread of crime in the country is deliberate killings and murders. I am pleased to inform Parliament of the positive trend: there were 44 registered killings and murders last year, and 50 more last year. This is the lowest number since the release of Estonia. This does not mean, however, that we could say that we have achieved Nordic level, because in Finland this number per capita is nearly twice as low. However, there is no reason to rejoice over a number of indicators. The number of corruption offences registered has never been this high: over 500 corruption crimes were registered in 2016. One of the reasons why this number is so high is that certain vehicles were identified as technically fit for their liking at the technical roadside inspection, even though these vehicles were not in order. There was a very high number of bribery and professional counterfeiting in this case, even though it was a criminal act organised by a criminal group. On the other hand, the increase in the number of registered crime is also due to the very good work done by law enforcement authorities, because if they did not deal with the issue systematically, there would have been no missing persons. At the same time, the recently published sociological corruption survey also reflects society's negative attitude towards corruption. According to the survey, more than two times less than six years ago, when we did the previous survey, those who claim to have been asked for a bribe in a technical inspection. Contact with several other types of corruption has also decreased. People have become less susceptible to corruption. The medals are asked for less (by anonymous study) than in 2010. One of the problematic nuances from the survey, which is quite relevant for the target audience, is that although the knowledge, tolerance and susceptibility of public sector workers to corruption are in a better position than others, there is a distinction among them between the political decision-makers group. Thus, an anonymous survey reveals that a sample of 500 people was interviewed. It has to be said that 12% of this sample would be willing to act corruptly, but the comparison is that only 4% of municipal officials would agree to do so. The problem is that people's attitudes are more frequent in buying laws. It is certainly delegitating and dangerous for the state. Almost a quarter (23%) of the population think that bribes are being made to buy laws, six years ago less than a fifth (19%) of such people. That is one thing that we can improve together, in cooperation with Parliament. We have a number of international recommendations from GRECO, or the Association of Anti-Corruption States. Four and a half years ago, we promised GRECO that we would adopt the rules of lobby, but that has not been done so far. Although we adopted the good practice of a member of the Riigikogu, four and a half years ago it was promised that the violation would also follow a sanctioning act. My call to Parliament is to realise the tools allowed for GRECO to counter corruption and conflicts of interest. The year 2016 was a signicant year in juvenile delinquency. In the last decade, as few crimes committed by minors have been registered in any year as last year. The number of crimes committed by minors has fallen to 1 000 border countries, which is three times less than ten years ago. At the end of last year, we came up with a bill that should reform the system for responding to juvenile delinquency and crime. This draft law affecting juvenile offenders must be looked at in parallel with the development of the system of juvenile commissions and closed child facilities initiated by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Together, these two things should help to achieve a situation where a system of special treatment for minors arises. Our aim is one and clear: to reduce the repeated infringements of minors and to make the response to juvenile offences more effective. By means of amendments, we want to achieve that for whatever reason a minor commits an offence, that he must understand the prohibition of the act and its consequences for the victim, and that he must be prepared to make his own efforts to make good the consequences of the act. It is also important to understand that imprisonment is not the way in which juvenile offenders can be reduced. All international practice shows the opposite: the origins of the relapsed criminal behaviour of a young person are precisely that they have been imprisoned. Now I'm talking about child abuse. Nearly a third (32%) of Estonian teenagers have been victims of sexual abuse during their lives. One in ten children has experienced sexual violence in their lifetime, according to a study carried out by the Ministry. True, the number of registered sexual crimes has remained at the same level for the last ten years. Any abuse of children is cruel; it undermines children's right to be healthy and to develop. The sexual exploitation of children has also been treated as one of the most serious crimes in our criminal policy, because it is directed against completely vulnerable small people. In order to prevent sexual abuse and ensure better protection of the rights of children who have been victims of it, Estonia has acceded to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Anti-Kids Activities. During last year, the Ministry of Justice organised outreach and training activities and drew up instructions for specialists. One of the most recent documents we have drawn up to ensure that children suffer as little as possible in finding out the truth for criminal proceedings is a handbook on child questioning, which helps legal representatives to discuss complex matters with children. We hope that the day-care centre project launched at the beginning of the year will succeed. This is a step towards making children feel safer. It is a service set up in the example of Iceland and other Nordic countries at the Tallinn Mental Health Centre, where in one place sexually abused or suspected children are supported by specialists from several fields. The issue of violence against women and domestic violence continued to be a subject of great concern. Parliament's proceedings include amendments to the Penal Code, which allow Estonia to accede to the Convention against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, which provides for specific sanctions for such crimes. Last year, the Ministry of Justice took special attention to the issue of dangerous tendency criminals. We have seen that the current penal policy did not work to reduce the reversibility of those who have repeatedly been violent. The whole objective of criminal policy is to protect freedom and to do so in such a way that people have the right to live their lives without being put at risk. The state must protect society from the lives of the most dangerous criminals who have repeatedly killed, raped or committed another violent or sexual crime that has caused serious damage to health. Such crimes have a major impact on society's sense of security. Last year, the Ministry of Justice analysed the criminal practice of dangerous prone criminals, identified the size of the target group and developed proposals to reduce the reversibility of people who repeatedly committed violence. For example, we want to create the possibility of applying life imprisonment to people who have repeatedly raped and caused serious harm to their health, and to understand the mandatory life imprisonment for the second time to a person who deliberately killed a person. In addition, it is at least as important as the fact that the return of dangerous offenders to society must be supported by effective rehabilitation. On the basis of current practice, we know that nearly 70% of people are released from prison without any supervision or support, many lack living and work and skills to manage independently and legally. That is why we propose a more targeted and compulsory post-punitive behavioural control for those released from prison, even after being released from prison, a person should have a sponsor. We are proposing to make life imprisonment more gradual and thus safer for society. In addition, it is necessary to organise a support person and accommodation service for those who have been released from prison. I would like to stress that we have made it a priority in the prison policy to make prisoners more engaged in purposeful activities during their imprisonment, which would help to rehabilitate and socialise these people. The focus is on the work of prisoners and language training. Persons who are not subject to an entry ban or expulsion obligation as additional penalties and who do not speak Estonian must learn Estonian in prison. They have to do it. The purpose of prison activities is, according to studies, directly linked to the possibility of reducing the risk of repeated crime. Now I'm talking about drunk driver crime. Compared to the previous year, less drunken driving was recorded last year. These are delightful and hopeful figures. However, there is concern that hundreds of people were repeatedly punished for drunken conduct during the year. In addition to national preventive and punitive measures, it is important to have a tolerant society for driving intoxicated. The most likely sign of a negative attitude is that there has been an increase in the number of drunk drivers caught in traffic due to the attentiveness of their fellow citizens. I hope that Parliament will deal with the draft law on the prevention of drunken and recurrent leaders presented by the government in a positive spirit. It provides for a diverse package to influence this group of persons. The state must give a clear signal that participation in drunken traffic is not tolerated by incarceration of a person caught repeatedly in criminal drunken driving. These individuals may cause someone to lose their health or their life. A large number of drunk drivers are consumed with alcohol abuse, but this disorder is not cured by mere punishment. The reasons for drunk driving must be taken into consideration even after the first infringement. I mean, a cure for alcoholism. In addition, we want to introduce electronic alcohol control devices this year, which can be applied as an additional measure to people who have been hit by drunk driving. The aim of the fight against drugs must be to reduce both demand and supply. Although law enforcement authorities have a major role and responsibility here, they are not enough, they need the contribution of society as a whole (education, solving social problems, including treatment and counselling). Drug use is a social problem and, in addition to punishing, attention must be paid to treating and supporting people. Since the main drug used in Estonia is cannabis and its analogues, in 2016 the Crime Prevention Council decided to support a project aimed at establishing a system of counselling and subsequent referral to cannabis users identified by the police. Counselling and treatment are voluntary for a person, but this would be an alternative to the financial penalty generally applicable to possession of small amounts of drugs. This approach, we believe, will help to save procedural resources and will be more effective in people's sensible behaviour than simply paying the fine. I note here that this kind of counselling and, if necessary, referral practice will start to be tested this year by the National Institute for Health Development, together with the North Prefecture and the SA North Estonian Regional Hospital. I must express unambiguously a negative view of those public statements which advocate the legalisation of drugs. This is not possible either in substance, on the basis of penal policy principles or because of the international obligations that the Estonian state has assumed. Manipulation of conflicting research data is certainly not the right way to go, because we are also giving a signal to the young generation about what behaviour is tolerant and unsolicited from the point of view of the legal compliance and public health of our society. From September 2016 the fundamental rights package entered into force with the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings. It extended judicial control in case of searches and arrests and reduced the time limits for arrests, as it is precisely search and arrest that are acts that seriously violate fundamental human rights. Last spring, these legislative changes were the subject of an important debate both in law enforcement agencies and in society at large. It is a pleasure to note that the police, the prosecutor's office and the court have succeeded in implementing the law. They must certainly be commended for this. The amendments have now been in force for nearly six months and I have considered it necessary to carry out a follow-up analysis of this law. It can be said in advance that the changes have led to a decrease in the number of arrested persons: if there were nearly 670 arrested at the end of August, this figure is now around 520 (this could change every day). The fact is that each arrested person spends more time than before under this law. However, we must consider that this is done at the expense of other activities. In my opinion, it is important that the quality of the procedure, as well as the attention given to the victim, is not overlooked. We should not make any changes to the procedure a situation that will prevent the truth from being found, or even cause the accused or suspected person to be able to escape justice. So the ex-post analysis will be completed in the ministry in the near future in the light of public interests. In summing up, I say that the overall trend in the realisation of our criminal policy is positive, but this does not mean that we should not actively seek "smart" solutions in criminal policy, whose central objective is precisely to reduce repeated criminal activity, be it drunk drivers, tendency criminals or domestic violence. In areas where we see a greater threat to society and a very high share of hiding crime, the state must contribute more effectively and smartly than it has done so far, looking for various tools that can be offered to the judicial authorities. As I said, next year a new agenda for developments in criminal policy is to be drawn up. The Ministry of Justice hopes that the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, as well as all the groups of ambassadors, will be involved in this work. We certainly would not like to present a final product to Parliament, which Parliament will then approve or reject. This thing must be born together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U85	Honourable Riigikogu, this item is discussed on the basis of § 155 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, which means that after a successful and excellent presentation by the Minister of Justice, every member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask him a question. After that, negotiations will begin, where the political groups will get the floor. Now you've been reminded of everything. Thomas Vitsu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U86	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Mr. Minister! In 2015, 6463 criminal cases entered into force, including 6455 convictions and 65 acquittals, so the percentage of acquittals was more or less 1. Minister, do you also have these figures for last year, i.e. 2016. If you don't have them on hand, can I ask you to send them to me?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U87	Thank you. We haven't noticed a change in the trend or proportion of this, I'll put it forward. In order not to stumble by answering a public representative's question, I promise that these figures will be delivered to a good questioner by a courier.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U88	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U89	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Unfortunately, there was a bit of a lack of a report about the resource needs of different types of crime, how one or the other public authority could cope. I'll give you the DA's office, for example. The Attorney General has very systematically considered what the preventive side could be in order to ensure that crimes are not committed, especially repeated crimes, and how the local government, the Police and Border Guard Board and the prosecutor's office should work together as a network. Do you think the DA's office has enough resources to help prevent crime? The second issue, of course, is the procedural times of the prosecutor's office, which society perceives with great sensitivity. Are there all the tools and preconditions for this procedure to be carried out more smoothly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U90	Thank you. That's where we're going. It would be misguided or unfair of me to say that we have reached the end of history and that all the necessary resources are available. Of course, these organisations have moved in this direction, as the Attorney General has rightly pointed out, that the prosecutor must bear in mind the social objectives of the legislation that seeks to prevent certain activities. It's very important. The aim of the state is not to punish; it is not a central objective. The aim of the state is to guarantee people freedom. When we talk about the abuse of minors or children, the central objective is to ensure that this can be avoided in the future. The best thing to do is to achieve this through prevention or early attention, just as the whole child protection reform is built on intervention at the earliest possible stage, when the crime can be prevented or prevented. The Prosecutor General has also highlighted the more active role of prosecutors in this organisation. When we are talking about directing attention to different networks, I can see that the prosecutors have taken it to heart. I mention the 'central need', which is that I believe that reform must be carried out. Jürgen Ligi laughed! The issue is that the salaries of senior civil servants are defined by law to guarantee their independence. I believe that prosecutors should also be a group of independent officials whose remuneration is determined by this law. Of course, additional resources will be required to ensure the quality of the national prosecution in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U91	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. My question concerns the prisoners for life and your plan to gradually bring them back to society, as you said, by making this process safer. It is certainly a process that needs to be explained very well in society in order to take down fears, but on the other hand, a very well-functioning support system is needed here. My question is, do we have this support system? If not, what is missing, how much will it cost and how will the authorities cooperate? Apparently, the authorities have to work very, very well together here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U93	Thank you. For criminals who serve life sentences, society has understood the strictest possible sanction, in particular in terms of the severity of the crimes and, as a general rule, the regressive behaviour of individuals. Life imprisonment does not mean that people are in prison until death, they may or may not be in prison for life. After 30 years of detention, it is also possible to apply for release, which, given the circumstances and the person's behaviour and profile, is decided by the court. In my opinion, the current system is not enough, I will say so now. As I said, I do not distinguish between life sentences criminals and any other serious crimes against individuals committed by criminals who we do not dare to put under the supervision of probationers. They do not meet these requirements and do not comply with the right. They have to bear their punishment, but after that, they're heading towards the four winds. The most dangerous criminals are heading towards the four winds, but the least dangerous we will release on parole and they will remain under the supervision of the probation officers. In my opinion, this system, as I have emphasised, should be based precisely on our probation system and these instruments. This also requires the transfer of certain resources throughout the prison service, but post-punished behaviour control of more dangerous criminals must be a rule, not an exception. In the Penal Code, I read that this was actually what was meant when the legislator introduced a post-punitive conduct check. In reality, it has become a very rare, very narrow thing. Rather, it has been applied to certain serial thieves and addicts, whose actions are, of course, socially condemnable, but who do not pose such a potential danger to humans. I think that we also need to look for a more diverse solution for lifelong prisoners. My point is that, in certain cases, it should be considered that a life sentence cannot be released from prison, given the seriousness of his crime. This is the extreme, most weighty and serious sanction of life imprisonment without the possibility of getting out of prison. The second option is that if the court considers that a person should be considered before the deadline to be released, at present, the court has a choice as to whether or not to be released, I believe that this could be done in a graduated manner. It should be borne in mind that this person has spent decades between the prison walls. It is already apparent from the nature of the sentence that the release should take place gradually in order to proceed as safely as possible. This means, figuratively speaking, that a person may be transferred from a closed prison to an opening prison and will remain under special control after the opening prison. I want to say that in this group of criminals, the keyword must be the safety of society. It is not a question of us growing up to be a good person around someone; the question is that these individuals must not pose a threat to their fellow citizens. That's the first condition. Secondly, we must have this road for these people at large. Even now, they have a theoretical opportunity to be released in 30 years' time if the court so decides. We must not throw, figuratively speaking, these individuals simply into the wind of four. Then it is likely that they will be inclined to commit crimes again, as their ability to cope in normal circumstances, under normal civil conditions, has largely disappeared because they have been in prison for 25 or 30 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U94	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There is also an appendix to your report about trends in crime. Very many figures are moving in a positive direction, i.e. crime is decreasing. The number of registered crimes and the number of drunk drivers hit by the steering wheel have decreased. What pleases me most is that Saaremaa is still the county in Estonia with the lowest number of crimes. However, no schedule reveals how many drugs have been consumed and sold. You called the drug issue quite softly just a social phenomenon. With regard to today, it is as if it were just as soft a social phenomenon as the greater empathy of women compared to men. However, would you briefly describe the trends in this area? I am thinking of drug use and the link between crime and drugs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U96	Thank you. No, there's no softness, no gentleness, no pampering. Drug offences, particularly those involving organised drug crime, are a particularly dangerous form of crime. Here's some sort of, let's say, the philosophy of pampering is not pursued by penal policy. I wanted to point out that, above all, to minors and those who have had a small amount of drugs, we want to offer an alternative. The person voluntarily chooses whether he or she is going to be treated or, as a general rule, the penalty policy provides for a financial penalty in this case. But that person can't get away with it. Our goal is to get rid of that addiction. The overall number of drugrelated crimes.. again the good news.. was reduced by 3.6% compared to 2015, compared to 4.5% of all crimes. Unfortunately, if you don't look at this per capita, it turns out that the extraordinarily high proportion of drug crimes is in Tallinn and Harjumaa (pooled together). 59% of all reported drug crimes have been registered precisely in Harjumaa. The conviction for a drug crime came into force last year against 710 persons. The most common drug is still cannabis, which was seized most frequently, followed by amphetamine stimulants, ecstasy and related substances. The positive news is that criminal policy has taken a very clear course, as people's lives are behind it: the confiscation of strong fentanyl has grown. Since there is a very high risk of overdose, this is precisely what has been addressed in order to prevent people from dying. GHB has been confiscated more than twice as many as five years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U97	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U98	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! In the public domain, high officials have expressed very different views as to whether a municipal law enforcement body could be granted the right to use coercive means. What's your position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U99	Thank you. Force and compulsion are very serious violations of fundamental human rights. It's a state monopoly. The State may delegate this right either to the private sector, i.e. to security firms, or to local authorities. But there must be very principled, conceptual starting assumptions. Firstly, the qualifications of these persons must be guaranteed. I have no reason to assume that this qualification could be worse than the level set out in the requirements for police officers. Secondly, there must be a very clear national monitoring system in place. Thirdly, we must take a very careful view of the intensive, coercive restriction of fundamental rights. Here is an example of handcuffs that are said to be needed for buses. This is such a fictional example. I certainly do not support this approach. On the contrary, I think that we have criminalised or arson for too many acts in Estonia. In my opinion, the bus bunny has committed no wrongdoing at all, which should be recorded in the criminal record, although handcuffs should not be used in this case. Let me put it this way: this proposal may come under consideration if we think in a healthy way. In my opinion, this is an unreasonable use of resources when police officers work in a sobering house. Once the rules are clearly established, I don't see why police officers should deal with people who have stunned themselves to unconsciousness. I think that if we have established the clear rules I mentioned, then either security companies or local government people could work freely in the sobering house. However, in the case of intensive restrictions on fundamental rights, particularly as regards the taking of liberty, it is my view that for these cases there must be an extremely rigid catalogue of processed claims. My starting point is that there is a forced monopoly on the state and, by delegating it to someone else, the requirements cannot be less stringent, but rather they should be stricter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U100	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You can read from the report that there is no reason for complacency, because the figures show that only 15% of the inmates in the circuit are work-related on a daily basis. This issue has been discussed before in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Do you see any progress here, whether there are opportunities or not? How does that percentage even reach 50? Prison shouldn't be such a nice place where you can just get shelter and food, but you should still give something to society when you get there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U102	Thank you. The Estonian Penalty Act applies to duty, working hours. If the inmate is not sick or unable to work for health reasons, if he or she does not study, say, receive a level education or study Estonian, if he or she does not participate in a therapy program or in an addiction release programme, then the starting point is that he or she should work. These jobs are different in prison. First of all, the general administrative assistance of the prison, such as food distribution or cleaning, is necessary. Other types of work are those that can be organised through the prison industry. The most important starting point we are trying to establish this year is that we need to look for additional ways of providing work for prisoners. For example, the Tartu prison lacks a production building, which would be necessary. At the end of 2018, a new prison will be opened in Tallinn, where a new production building has already been designed, where these people can be involved. This 15% does not show that only 15% of the Estonian 2000 prisoners are working, but it shows the average time spent by these people, how much they work through the middle. The general rule and assumption is that those duties that prison officials give to prisoners must be carried out, otherwise they will be sanctioned, as prescribed by the law. But one of the special programmes that we have used and are going to expand, because it is necessary for the socialisation of persons, is compulsory education in Estonian for detainees. Language skills are, in fact, a prerequisite for the socialisation of any person in normal life, and it is generally necessary to impose this obligation on prisoners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U103	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U104	Mr. Minister! I am probably not just expressing one of the main problems of myself, but of all the parents and people in the so-called second area. We live at a time when institutions, including the Ministry of Justice, are constantly in the habit of introducing new jargon vocabulary, but it is not explained anywhere, in dictionaries or anywhere. There were at least two expressions in your report that I would like to know exactly what the meaning of. First of all, what makes prison a shock spell? Second, the term "dangerous prone criminal" was repeated. I suppose it's some kind of wild translation of some English expression. What is it, really? What does it mean?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U105	Thank you. Neither term is legally or in legal terms; they are indeed criminal sociological terms. The first term'shock arrest' indicates that short-term detention is foreseen for some conduct. The length of the detention shall be decided by the judge. But the word'shock' is here because when a person is faced with this sanction, he gets into another environment, which is undoubtedly accompanied by stress and supposed shame, because he understands the consequences of what he has done, it should inspire a person to refrain from doing this in the future. This should, of course, be a prerequisite for certain persons who know that this imprisonment may potentially be applied to them to refrain from further unlawful conduct. But the good questioner really wasn't wrong. "Dangerous propensity criminal" is an international criminal sociological concept. It shall be furnished in such a way that persons whose behavioural profile is such that they have repeatedly committed dangerous crimes against persons, as described in the Penal Code chapter on personal offences (killing, rape, bodily injury). Secondly, the potential reversibility of these persons is extremely high. This potential reversibility is not simply an estimate; most countries with an advanced legal culture measure the potential reversibility of apprehended and carry out analyses of it. From there it can be said that if the person's potential reversibility is less than 40% on a given test basis, it could be the starting point for his decision on the release before the deadline. If the person's relapse is over 80%, we can expect him to do the same type of action in the future. Why people commit crimes, which are the criminal origins of a person, is a very complex legal sociological problem that several schools are arguing about. There are links here, but, as is usual in social sciences, the conclusions drawn from quantitative studies can be argued against.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U106	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U107	Good manager! Good minister! I'm glad to hear crime is falling, but now we're talking about sexual intercourse with children. In 2015, 27 sexual acts were performed with children, 28 in four months of last year. So if the same pace had been continued, the final figure could have been 74 and would have been a brilliant record. In 2015, 62 minors were raped during the year, in the first four months of last year 32. If the same pace had continued, a powerful record of 93 would have been born again. Did two glorious new records, the number of sexual intercourse with children and the number of juvenile rapes occur last year, and how high were these figures? Secondly, is spring time or the first quarter the sweetest time to rape children, and how is the situation this year, how many children have been raped and how many sexual relations with children?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U108	Minister, just a moment. Dear members of the Riigikogu, let's somehow preserve dignity when we ask questions!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U109	Thank you, good questioner! If we generally look at sexual crimes committed against minors, we can see that they make up the majority of all sexual crimes, the non-predictable part of sexual crimes being committed against adults. In particular, rape has been the focus of this, with a share of 85 to 90% in different years. The number of registered sexual crimes remains close to 500, falling to 482 last year. But the questioner is right in the sense that last year the number of rape cases with a minor victim increased by 19 and, at the same time, the number of rape cases with an adult victim decreased by 28. 70% of rape cases were those where the victim was a minor. When we look at crimes against sexual self-determination, we see that there has been a difference in the number of offences covered by the different sections: one offence to tens. I think that, if the time considered is so short, the number of offences covered by a particular paragraph cannot be considered to be a trend because all these figures are so small. The circumstances in which a person commits a criminal offence or the circumstances in which the criminal offence comes out depend on the particular case. I say this: the seasonal connection to these crimes has not been analysed separately by the Ministry of Justice, or I do not have such information at my disposal. When we talk about who is the victim of a sexual crime and what is the face of the person responsible, statistics show that the person responsible is a familiar person. Unfortunately, the likelihood of falling victim to a sexual crime committed by a stranger is not nonexistent, but research shows that it is far more likely that it is a relative or a acquaintance, a person who is able to gain the victim's trust and whose criminal ambition at some point develops into this ugly act. So it can be said that the overall dynamics did not look explosively different from the year before last year. In one area there were +19 crimes and in another there were 28 crimes. I dare not conclude that this is some kind of extraordinary trend. Each of these acts is caused by the tragedy of man, the hurt of man. But, unfortunately, the statistics remain inaccurate because the figures are just so small.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U110	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your report and your answer to the questions. We have discussed all of this here and looked at it in the centre of Estonia. Estonia is part of Europe, part of the world. How have we developed trends in human trafficking, for example? Have we seen it? Has cross-border crime changed in Estonia or is it the same? How are we doing with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U112	Thank you. Illegal trafficking in human beings has not increased by size, but, above all, such trafficking in human beings is growing when people are being placed across the eastern border. Trafficking in human beings is a topic for law enforcement authorities, the police and the prosecutor's office, which can be regarded as a 'green line' or a priority. Trafficking in human beings can be very multi-directional. What is the keyword for human trafficking? A person becomes addicted, either by threatening, by offering some kind of advantage, or even by violence. In any case, a situation is created where a person is under pressure and is no longer free in his or her decisions. When a person is under pressure, they force him to do something. There is also a hypothetical possibility that he will be forced to do nothing, but, as a general rule, he will be forced into some sort of activity, whether it be prostitution, some kind of work or something else. In the field of trafficking in human beings, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice launched an information campaign at the beginning of this year. The most common type of trafficking in human beings, which the people of Estonia fall victim to, is related to work, when a person, figuratively speaking, gets into an addiction relationship, is deprived of his passport, has to work somewhere from morning to evening and gets cripples for it. There is no other solution here, except that the Estonian state must also protect its people abroad. We've set up an information phone where people can call and report incidents like this. This is a crime; in that case, a person does not have to feel alone. Are these cases more frequent? The number of reports has increased. People have changed, they have become more aware of their rights and they have the courage to turn to law enforcement authorities. This is a positive direction. I don't have any statistics, but I'm going to assume that, since the borders opened in 2004, people's perception of self-defence is expected to improve with this half-humanity. Certainly, the state also has a duty of care to inform them, and when people are being humiliated, trapped and made a victim, the state must be next to the person. No one in trouble can feel alone in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U113	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U114	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, In your report, you said that we need to pay more attention to so-called drinkers to alcohol treatment. In addition, you want to introduce electronic alcohol control devices this year. We know that the police are doing a very good job in combating close-relationship violence and keeping a close eye on the families that have had violence. What services does the state provide for these people, mostly men who are violent at home? Could they be offered the same treatment for drunk drivers as for anger management and why not control their behaviour by electronic devices?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U115	Thank you. That is a very legitimate question. Even in the case of domestic violence, the duty of care of the state is not a matter of itself. Punishment is a measure. What do we want to achieve? We want to ensure that a person can live with dignity and is not humiliated. I either read or heard a sentence this morning that alcohol doesn't in itself cause violence, but it takes down human behavioral control centres, which triggers a chain of violent behaviour. When we talk about the ban on alcohol consumption as an additional sanction that could be imposed on those persons who have been convicted, it must also be said with regard to the current law that the prohibition on alcohol consumption imposed on a person under probation can be imposed. Should this be done more effectively in criminal policy, with participation in a therapy program, so that the person is freed from or controlled? I think there is certainly reason to assess the various measures. I think this is a good idea, and it is precisely in the area on which the President called for us to offer ideas. I promise that I will not simply treat it as I heard the question, but I will ask my colleagues in the ministry to analyse it. This year, we want to launch a pilot programme, which would give the possibility, in particular, of providing legal advice to victims, women or men, so that they can rely on a counsellor in criminal proceedings. Even if there is no criminal case, they would be able to obtain legal information about their position, as well as advice on how to act in one situation or another. This is the program we want to announce in the near future. We consider it important that this work be organised by an organisation that has, in particular, experience of assisting victims of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U116	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U117	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you very much, Minister for Justice, for your review and your answer to questions, for extending this issue. My question comes about legal aid in the same country as the victims of domestic violence. Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, has proposed to the Minister of Justice that victims of violence against women and domestic violence be able to obtain free state legal aid. We heard we were planning to launch a pilot project. It will undoubtedly bring more resources, but it would also be a very clear message to the perpetrator. The weaker side would also receive a message that the state would protect him. Will it be hoped that this service will be available and accessible to all in 2018 if this project is launched? I just want to know your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U118	Thank you. On 1 January 2017, amendments to the Victim Assistance Act entered into force, meaning that, even before criminal proceedings have been opened, victims of close relationship violence will be able to receive victim support services, including, to a certain extent, advice on this legal position. We have an implementation plan, I hope that in the coming months, it will be implemented in the context of a general project of the state's initial legal advice, which is, of course, not very narrowly intended for victims of domestic violence, but actually provides assistance to people in all areas of law in the form of legal advice and also assists in the preparation of legal documents. This legal aid is important for people under pressure or in a more vulnerable position. This project we want to announce in the near future, I hope it will take place within a month. In this particular area, organisations involved in assisting victims of domestic violence are likely to participate in this public competition, and I think it will definitely work this year. I believe that we will draw conclusions on how successful this has all been, taking into account the interaction of several aspects. As I said, we are referring to the general reform of primary legal advice, the amendments to the Victim Assistance Act, which entered into force on 1 January, and the pilot project on legal advice or legal aid for victims of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U119	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U120	Thank you. Of course, it pleases us that the number of crimes is decreasing. But we know that over the years, the line between wrongdoing and crime has been repeatedly shifted, particularly in relation to anti-ownership crimes. Many of the acts that used to be crimes are now gone. That's probably why the police don't go to the police in many cases. But if we look at the misdemeanours that were before the last amendment and consider them as crimes, what is this statistical picture? Has the number of crimes decreased, or is it in an increasing trend?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U121	Thank you. This is a very important question, because when we compare unparalleled figures, it is simply a twilight. So if we say that dynamics are one, but the base becomes narrow, then the dynamics change. When we talk about the general sociological profile and say that the number of registered crimes is decreasing, we have no reason to create an illusion about who is generally committing crimes. The likelihood of committing a crime is lower for people with certain demographic profiles and higher for people with certain profiles. Older women in general are not in the criminal group, but there are young men in this group. If we look at the overall emigration over the last 15 years, we can see that the share of young men among emigrants is higher than that of older women. Unfortunately, crimes are committed in this demographic group, which is a fact, but they go to the register of another country, whether it is Finland or another country. What I'm trying to say is that we definitely have to keep in mind the basics, but they're still going to be a little bit conditional. The right thing is that in 2015, the Penal Code was amended and the threshold of crimes and crimes against property, which was also brought to the attention of the questioner, was raised from EUR 64 to EUR 200. I had exactly the same question to the Justice Department officials that if we add up the sum of crimes and misdemeanours against property, the whole pot is the same and we have just moved this border. I can say that, in 2016, this is positive news, i.e. the total number of crimes and misdemeanours decreased by 15%. In other words, although we shifted some of the things that the police had to record so far into crimes, to the number of misdemeanours, and this figure increased, we noted that the sum of the sum of the total number of these crepes decreased, which is positive. The general logic is that if we have such a number of criminal cases in the proceedings, very many of them will be dealt with. I want to call on people to report the crimes they have committed against their property, as well as the misdemeanours they have committed. Of course, there are types of crime that are very hidden. For example, corruption, where there is no victim, is a victim of public interest or general morals in society. For example, domestic violence crimes, where the victim's continued dependence makes it very low to report them. Unfortunately, there are other cases: in many cases, people may not report wrongdoing, because they do not believe that a criminal will be found, they simply give up. My message, though, is that when an unlawful act has been committed, people should certainly turn to the law enforcement authorities. This is in the interest of a general peace of law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U122	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U123	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Has coercive treatment of alcoholism in certain cases, such as traffic hooligans or domestic abusers, been mentioned, even on the advice of family members? Has that been the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U124	This topic has been touched on from time to time. The general understanding of experts just applies to any kind of addiction-free program, and the starting point is that a person may have the choice that the alternative is some other punishment, but in order for the treatment to have any effect, the person must make that choice himself. It's a professional statement I've heard. If the treatment is a person's figuratively simply punishment, he sits, his leg over his knee, and suffers by looking at these posters of vodka and forbidding hands, then it does not have the desired effect. We want to influence the personality in order for man to push his course of conduct. The experts' estimate is that whatever external circumstances are, a person may also be hypocritical, he or she wants to get a lighter sentence or whatever, he or she must be willing. When a person is like a goat on a sail, he gets dragged into a chain for treatment, but he closes his eyes and ignores it all, it's hardly a result. I would like to say that there is also a ban on alcohol consumption as an entirely legitimate additional punishment under current law. The same draft law on the prevention of drunk drivers, which is in Parliament's proceedings and will be discussed tomorrow by the Committee on Legal Affairs, is that, in the case of certain offences, the alcohol dependence of a person must be established. First of all, it is about the recessive drinkers of the steering wheel. The starting point is that it is objectively known that it is an addict. It's not like a judge of his wisdom can tell by looking at it, or someone can appreciate that you see he's drunk or something. Of course, this can be done again only on the basis of methods that are evidence-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U125	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U126	Thank you. The decline in crime is one of many indicators, which suggests that it is criminal to talk about Estonia's stagnation. Society has become more mature and the country has certainly been successful in this area as well. But my question is about statistics. Does the demographic situation in any way affect this, according to analysts, whether the shift in these more risky age groups is one of the factors that are highlighted?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U127	Absolutely. I also said, in answer to Mr Põllea's question, that one category is registered crimes as a phenomenon. It is clear that if Estonia had a population of two million people, more crimes would probably have been registered. When the population is halved, the number of registered crimes is halved. The group that commits crimes are generally young men. This particularly concerns crimes against individuals. White-collar crime is more common in older men. For women, crimes are the least common, they prefer to live a more law-abiding life. We can discuss that. Yeah, men and women are different. The rightful attitude is different; we also see it in crime statistics. There are statistics on demographic groups in this regard. But when you look at age groups, it is clear that the other side of risky behaviour is to create risks for other people. That is now the same question posed by Mr Adams. How does a person's criminal conduct result from a high level of testosterone or from peers who influence him? Unfortunately, a large part of this group of people is a result of work migration abroad. But they're not going to be committed, they're going to be committed, but they're going to go to another, friendly foreign register for us. But stagnation is, of course, an important question. We can see that there really is a stagnation in the case of dangerous tendency criminals. There's nothing to say, this circle of people between freedom and prison is getting awkward. We measure reversibility on the basis of the number of persons prosecuted after being released from prison in the next 12 months. There's about 40% of them. Of course, it does not express general resonance in sociological terms. This is a very small group for which a crime has been identified in the next 12 months and it can be argued that it is this person who has committed it. In fact, however, these people are still over 60%. We can say that people who are now in prison have often been there before. It is also likely that they will be reunited in a prison facility. The so-called safety of this group is certainly one of the tasks of criminal policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U128	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. I am opening negotiations that can be attended by authorised representatives of the political groups. Jaanus Karilaid on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U129	Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I congratulate the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, for the fact that this window of opportunity, which has emerged with the new coalition, is also about to be used immediately. But we must also recognise past policies. Indeed, the number of crimes against property and serious crimes against individuals has decreased. It is a fact that progress has taken place here. I am pleased to hear that the number of registered crimes continues to decline. In 2016, the number of registered crimes decreased by almost 3 500 crimes, or 11%. We can assess efficiency by reducing crime and preventing crime. The 2016 report on developments in criminal policy indicates that the number of recorded corruption crimes has never been this high: over 500 corruption crimes were registered in 2016. However, I consider the effectiveness of the fight against corruption to be important. Penalty law must be applied more uniformly and fairly in cases of corruption in local authorities. I am not going to illustrate this with long examples, but I say that in one of the municipalities of Harjumaa, on which the report of the National Audit Office was also presented to Parliament in September, significant violations were detected, but for some reason it remained there. Why? There is nothing positive about measures to combat the spread and use of drugs. The penalties for drug offences are strict, but it is not enough to deal with the problem by merely setting a penalty rate in the special part of the Penal Code. Drug use is, unfortunately, a social problem that needs to be addressed in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. However, so far, this cooperation has been incomplete. Tomorrow, another problem will be discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The fight against pathological drunks has not been effective enough so far either. Tomorrow, the text agreed by the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Justice will be on the table. We hope to find a clear solution that can be passed on to society. But I also bring out problematic places where no progress has been seen or where we would expect much faster developments. The first keyword is money laundering and Estonia as a transit country. Here's the sad side of the figures and I have to ask why it's like this. Secondly, domestic violence is still too hidden a problem, although the President has strongly highlighted it and promised to pay attention to it in every President's anniversary speech if there is no progress. Here too, the cooperation between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice has been ineffective. Third, drug crime. Fentanyl is still considered an Estonian national drug. The second keyword is GHB, nor has there been enough effective action. Fourthly, the fight against corruption is not enough. We have also seen a number of special committees in Parliament, one of the best known committees has been the Tallinn Port Research Committee, where both logical reasons and factual data were known, but the ends were still lost in the water. We couldn't find the guy in charge. We saw that taxpayers' money was clearly abused, but we could not find political responsibility. I'm sure it shouldn't stay that way. Fifth, the subject under discussion... Extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U130	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U131	You don't need that much. Fifthly, one of the issues under discussion is private sector corruption. This topic has not received enough attention. Is there really no resources for this, or has it not been on our political agenda? When we say that the public sector must be transparent, it is not possible to view it as being separated from the private sector. This is all one whole and I think that the subject of corruption in the private sector needs more attention. Of course, much needs to be done in prevention, in achieving the proportionality of sanctions and in developing the competences of the authorities. But as I mentioned at the outset, the Minister of Justice has used a new window of opportunity. I am therefore looking positively at the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U132	Raivo Time as representative of the IRL, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U133	Ladies and gentlemen, Good President! For quite a number of years now, the Ministry of Justice has been responsible for the design of criminal policy and the planning of methods to combat crime. It seems that the decision of its own time was relatively competent and the Ministry of Justice has done this excellently. As we have heard from the Minister's report, crime has been falling for years. In the last year too, indeed, it decreased by more than 10%. However, if you look a little more closely at what is behind this, it turns out that this reduction is largely due to the lower number of crimes against property and last year's figures, it can be said that there is also a reduction in juvenile delinquency. At the same time, the state of the violence against individuals has been stable, we are staggering. The number of professional crimes and related violence has even increased. Of course, it is very welcome and welcomes the fact that, according to studies, people's fear of crime has been reduced year after year, ten times in ten years. If, ten years ago, the proportion of those who considered crime to be the main concern was 45% at the border, they are now less than 5%. Inevitably, though, you always have to ask if everything is okay. Within six years, the Police and Border Guard Board's workforce has been reduced by a thousand people, which is the number of people working in one precinct. We remember the change that caused the police to argue a few years ago when the number of regional police was drastically reduced. Now the plan is to increase their number again, but then there were three to five in most counties. The reason, of course, was the lack of financial resources. However, despite the decrease in resources, the Police and Border Guard Board has, in my opinion, done quite well with its tasks in the fight against crime and preventing crime. You have to take your hat off in front of these people. Because of the loss of resources, one thing scares me. Quite a lot has been said that the police have a shortage of resources and can't deal with all things anymore. Therefore, citizens who have fallen victim to some minor theft or other crimes against property simply no longer report it because they know that the police do not have the resources to investigate such matters. The consequence, however, is that the country does not really know how big the spread of crime is. It was also said that soon, in 2018, the period of these developments will end and the Ministry of Justice and the Riigikogu will have to develop new directions. What are the main aspects that this new document should pay particular attention to? In my opinion, crime against weaker members of society must be taken into consideration, and I am thinking in particular of child abuse and violence in the relationship. Such things must be combated by law enforcement, criminal policy and social policy measures; this work must form a whole; these things cannot be separated. One of the types of crime that causes us to lose a great many lives and cause very many injuries is traffic offences. The police make some 800,000 drivers blow over the year, and 8,000, or 1% of them, are intoxicated, which means that thousands and thousands of drivers are drunk on our roads each day. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U134	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U135	Of course, here too, the picture has improved. When statistics were started about this ten years ago, the share of drunk drivers was 3% off the border, now it is 1%. You can enjoy it, but you can't be satisfied with it. In 2016, 76 people died in traffic, with only five cases, i.e. 6% of cases, being responsible for a drunk driver. 1799 people were injured, 200 of them drunk driver's fault. So, of course, we have to contribute a lot to the fight against driving in a drunken state, but numerically, a much bigger problem is still pure carelessness, traffic hooliganism. It must not be in the background if we put the fight against drunk drivers in the foreground. I am also talking about corruption crimes. It's one of the most dangerous crimes of all. As we have seen, in the last year there was an increase in the number of crimes, perhaps because of a large-scale case. However, in my opinion, the increase in the number of corruption crimes can still be rather welcomed today, as it shows that the authorities to which it is assigned take their work seriously. Corruption is a crime that poses a serious threat to national security, international credibility and international and national competitiveness. The most important thing is that it can cause the country's own citizens to 'break up' because it sets a very bad example. It was only recently that we listened to the report by Mr Kama, Deputy Chancellor of Prisons, in the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities. He pointed out that Estonia is at the forefront of the number of prisoners in the European Union in a bad way, and we are in third place after Latvia and Lithuania. But I think that so much attention should not be paid to how we can release prisoners from prison and how many ankle bracelets should be placed on them, but more attention should be paid to how fewer people would end up in prison in the future and how the number of prisoners could then be brought down. But, of course, rehabilitation and those who are released from prison must also be dealt with, so that they can integrate into society and manage their lives there, even though much more prevention still needs to be done. I have also pointed out on several occasions, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, that there is not enough attention to the protection of victims. We have very well-protected criminals, suspects and accused persons who have all kinds of rights, but the victims are often deprived of protection. Last but not least, I want to mark what is directly within the domain of the Ministry of Justice's administration, namely that the trial must be quicker and more effective, so that the criminal practice also becomes faster, more efficient and more immediate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U136	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U137	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Criminal policy is a concept that probably doesn't speak to very many people around us. What a decent person has to do with criminal policy, because it is something that regulates only the lives of criminals! This opinion is absolutely wrong. Criminal policy affects the lives of all of us, and it is therefore impossible to overestimate its importance. Successful criminal policy, the choice of priority axes there, and even more so their implementation will reduce crime and thus increase the security of each one of us. A successful criminal policy ensures that victims' rights are protected and procedures are carried out in an optimal time and that the rights of all parties, but above all of the victim, are protected so that human dignity is preserved during the proceedings. A successful criminal policy takes into account people's sense of justice and ensures that the offences are adequately assessed and the damage they cause is compensated. It will also ensure that offenders are dealt with in order to improve their compliance and thus, at the end stage, increase society's sense of security. The 'Criminal Policy Developments until 2018' confirmed in 2010 highlight four areas in particular: the prevention of juvenile delinquency, the prevention of repeat crimes, the prevention of crimes against individuals and the prevention of organised and serious concealment. Cybercrime also comes under the last theme. In his presentation last year, the Minister mentioned dangerous criminals, drunk drivers and juvenile offenders, as well as support and protection for victims of crime. I thank the Minister for his presentation. There were a number of positive moments in the report, such as the reduction of registered crime, but also the fact that the Estonian people perceive this decline in crime. But too much was disturbing, such as the increase in the number of corruption crimes. Of course, there are reasons for this, but that does not change the fact that corruption is always a threat to national security. In the case of corruption, there must be a zero tolerance. The information was shocking that one third of Estonian children aged 13 to 16 had experienced sexual abuse. A third! Reference was made to the impact of sexual abuse on the development of the child, and support measures, such as the handbook on child questioning and the children's house project, are grateful, but it has to be said that this is not enough. The extent of child sexual abuse in Estonia requires a loud alarm bell. This is a place where the causes need to be achieved and a separate prevention plan needs to be drawn up from there to raise awareness among children, teachers and parents about how to recognise situations of danger, how to detect a person in trouble and how to deal with abuse that has already occurred. This is an area that requires very many ministries to work together. Besides the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research must be involved. But please do it now! I am sure that all my colleagues in the Riigikogu want an overview of what we are doing as a country in order to ensure that the type of crime in question starts to decline rapidly. I believe that this must be one of our priorities. I would like to point out that the Minister's report mentioned at least two places the desire of the Ministry to impose a compulsory penalty. In view of the principle of separation of powers and the sovereignty of the courts, it is important to consider very carefully the prescription of the sentence to the court. Life is always more written than the law. This is also one of the substantive reasons for the discretion of the courts. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U138	Extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U139	We expect that before such a proposal becomes a real norm, an in-depth analysis has been carried out and judges have been involved in this decision. Unfortunately, some issues were not addressed in the report. New forms of crime have inevitably emerged as a result of the rapid development of our digital society. For example, the use of the identity of another person, which is predominantly taking place in the cyber sphere, is therefore one of our priorities to combat. In the last five years, the number of such cases has more than doubled, but unfortunately this issue was not addressed in the report. The regional aspect of crime also remained unaddressed. We have very good examples of areas where crime has fallen significantly. However, there are examples to the contrary. For example, crime has increased in Ida-Virumaa, in particular physical abuse has increased. What are the Ministry's conclusions and the measures that would actually prevent this growth? Finally, one more thing. The Minister said to begin his speech that supporting and protecting victims of crime was their priority in 2016. According to the State Attorney General, a million euros was found last year to protect the fundamental rights of suspects and accused persons. At the same time, the protection of the victims' fundamental rights after the provisions of the Victims Directive was completely unfunded. If the suspect is often involved in proceedings because of his or her choice, in particular his or her committing an offence, that is not the case with the victim. Therefore, when, because of limited resources, choices must inevitably be made, priority must be given to victims, not to suspects. The minister's strength to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U140	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U141	Good vice chairman! Happy attendees! My observations are from a rather more critical note. Firstly, it is worrying that the issue did not arrive at the Commission early enough, so the Minister could not be given input that would certainly have made this report more meaningful. Yesterday, they were able to confirm within eight minutes that there was a call, but there was no additional material, which, however, has arrived to some extent today. This is not enough to give the Minister meaningful feedback. Really, today only one bunch of crimes were dealt with. I really would have liked to hear more about the economic crime that the Free Party Group has dealt with a few times in this Chamber. The world is becoming increasingly passionate and attracts attention to a type of crime, such as cybercrime, which has in some cases been defined as even the activity of a hostile state or its henchmen. We know the Ministry has reviewed the Penal Code. That is why I would have liked to hear today what the impact of legislative changes on one or another of the types of crime has been and whether these changes have served their purpose. Of course, it would have been nice to hear and assess the activities of the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts and prisons, the burden on them to achieve their objectives, and whether and to what extent any resources should be redeployed and targets reviewed. We have marked on our issues that the release of prisoners before the deadline definitely requires much more thorough preliminary work before society can be told that it will be done today. It'll cause unnecessary panic. It is therefore very important to involve the Ministry of Social Affairs and local authorities here. In society, the keyword "Community" is increasing. It is the community that could be prepared to help these people return to normal life. We would also expect the Minister of Justice to analyse whether the procedural rules are in place and whether there is a smooth and efficient procedure or whether there is a need for help with laws or regulations. Of course, what is happening in Europe is also playing an increasingly important role, not only in Estonia, but also in Europe. Krista Aru has just referred here to the impact of what is happening in Europe, such as immigration. We need to look at the whole issue more broadly. A little more was the presentation of the fight against the consequences, much less was said about prevention. I would have liked to hear about the role of education and recreational education. From childhood on, one should be informed that the criminal way of life is not what leads him to life, but that it brings him back very much in development. Again, the rhetorical question: if crime is statistically reduced, is it possible to review resources, for example, to increase the payroll of judges, prosecutors and police officers? Can we answer that question today? We in the Commission, particularly when dealing with the issue of drunk drivers, have marked the fact that we are trying to get very close to welfare countries in terms of statistical data, but we have some cultural mentality that does not allow it well. I bring here, for example, the perception of a drinking culture or corruption. The increase in the number of corruption crimes is positive so much that we are seeing a result now. A few years ago, resources were added to the corruption investigation. That's positive. Now we should ask ourselves one thing, and the parties should do the same. The report indicated that people perceive the law as being bought. The last real example that went through society was the issue of increasing subsidies in the framework of the cluster bill. These things should not happen and the parties should be aware of the actions that should be avoided. As regards the draft on drunk driving, I would also point out that the Ministry has not really discussed the initial problem with experts or practitioners (advocates, prosecutors, judges). The approach of experts is that it is important for them to bring the person back on the Friday, not so much to punish someone. They also see different solutions, but unfortunately, it seems to me that the Ministry sees things in a uniform way. It's like the Ministry is living in a bubble, not a real society. Hopefully, in the future, the Minister will be able to respond to how progress has been made, what obstacles have been and what possible solutions are to overcome them. I will only put forward a provocative message that I will definitely sign the Raivo Aeg report, and I hope that the minister will involve him in his brain trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U142	The Minister has wished to have the final statement, by virtue of § 71 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U143	Thank you for your constructive remarks and also for your constructive criticism. Indeed, yesterday it was eight minutes. But it was certainly also important to open up the problem of the rehabilitation of freedom fighters and the associated historical context, which the Commission has dealt with for a long time. Neither the man who committed unlawful acts nor any nation or state will escape the past. But the questions were very good and specific for Mrs Hatter. Is the procedure in place when we are talking about criminal proceedings, much more of a different legal order? It's not in place. The review of criminal proceedings is currently underway at the Ministry of Justice. This procedure is too inflexible and bureaucratic, and we are working with practitioners to make it more efficient and effective, but of course there are no concessions in guaranteeing fundamental rights for individuals. As far as resources are concerned and the fact that if there is less registered crime, whether the burden on the judicial authorities is lower and the resources released can be used either to raise people's wages or to divert or simply save money, we are paradoxically seeing that over the last ten years people have enjoyed going to court, or that criminal proceedings have reached more. In fact, law enforcement authorities are also working more effectively. One thing is a registered crime. It's time to register it now, not to write it down, it's not that you see, that's what happened. The question, though, is to identify the truth, perhaps to understand what really happened. It's important. The number of civil matters has increased more than twice. Unfortunately, the population decreased, there is a negative trend, but there is still the desire of people to pursue justice, especially civil and administrative matters, which are largely in increasing dynamics. As regards compulsory imprisonment, mentioned by Mrs Oviir, the President of the Supreme Court has also said that social assessments are within the competence of the legislator. This competence cannot be assumed by the courts and does not fall within their competence. I think it would be irresponsible to place what we expect from a specific sanction on the shoulders of the judges. What are we talking about today? In 2013, Parliament adopted a certain law. According to the common sense, society understands that if you are on parole and commit a new crime within the sentence period, this earlier probation will be enforced. The important thing is the word 'dingimsi', being free on'maybe'. In 2013, it was rather turned backwards. In other words, catalog cases were introduced in rather vague terms if the probation is not carried out. Thus, committing a new crime during the probation period does not, as a general rule, lead to the execution of an earlier sentence when we are talking, for example, about drunk drivers. It is not a question of narrowing the judge's freedom in justice. It is a question of Parliament's knowingly expanding this catalogue in 2013 when the probation will not apply. In my opinion, it is reasonable to place this in a more rational proportion of the legislator's choice. Cooperation between the various institutions was concerned here. The tools of criminal policy are, in fact, specific sectoral policies. The generalisation of criminal policy is clear when looking at this document, after all, is extremely large. The document is short and certainly not an action plan; it is rather a good academic guideline. However, this includes an anti-corruption strategy, a development plan for prevention of violence, an anti-drug plan and other sectoral sub-programmes, some of which are coordinated by the Ministry of Justice, part by the Ministry of the Interior and part by the Ministry of Social Affairs. It is important that these institutions cooperate with each other, as the previous speaker mentioned. Good luck to everyone, and once again thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U144	Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the negotiations and closing the debate on this point. As you remember, the debate is not followed by a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U145	The last item is the second reading of Bill 322 of the Act amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Finance Committee to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U146	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft law took place on 18 January. The Commission gathered to prepare the second reading on 20 February. It then became clear that by 1 February, which had been fixed by the deadline for receiving amendments, they had not come from committees, political groups or members of the Riigikogu. A brief question was asked whether the interest groups had said anything on the subject. There was such information that the opinion was requested from the taxpayers' association, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, but only the Chamber of Commerce replied and stated that they did not have any suggestions or comments on this draft. So right now the bill is on the table in exactly the same form as it was here on 18 January. I briefly recall that this draft concerns binding decisions by the tax authorities. This draft provides for the transposition of one euro directive and one OECD reporting scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U147	The first question is put by Peeter Ernits to the waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U148	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Everyone is happy and no one has any comments, not the smallest. Is this such a great law, or is it just not really interfering with the instances who have to act like one? Is it normal for everything to go so well without any comment or clarification?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U149	Thank you. Sometimes that's what happens. But during the first-reading discussion, the representative of the Ministry of Finance was asked how many companies this concerns in Estonia, and the answer was that these are companies whose annual income exceeds 750 million euros. There are fewer than ten of these in Estonia. I can't tell you how many in particular, three or five, they said less than ten. So the circle of interested people is very narrow. That's one. Secondly, there are basically no changes in the reporting of these companies, no additional obligations or additional costs. It is simply a rule that will work: in order for income tax to be collected exactly in those countries where production has been produced there will have its own English-language model, form and all that exists, they will send data to tax authorities to the countries where they have subsidiaries where production is produced, etc. So firstly, the circle of interested people is small, and secondly, in the European Union, it is a common practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U150	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U151	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. Perhaps my question concerns the information at first reading. You were talking about taxes, this in relation to countries where something has been produced. Today, more and more is said that production is like a chain and it is not possible to specifically identify where something has been produced. I have heard that in many large countries this is the case. Does this bill in any way mean that production takes place in many places before one thing is finished?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U152	Thank you for your question. This was not discussed in the Commission. I am not closely involved in entrepreneurship, but I know that when, for example, the Ericsson factory was operating in Narva, it was when the final result came together (some cables and everything that went there), to know for sure where some or other materials had come from, which work had been done in the past, etc. These companies have a very long time to report. In order to make the 2016 report, they will have time for 2017 as a whole. I think the forms they have to fill out are still prepared by specialists. These forms will help to show exactly where and what has been produced and which country should finally receive its tax share. In my opinion, this regulation is rather in the interests of countries with small subsidiaries, which are doing some sort of intermediate work. This will help to achieve greater clarity in relation to this particular production. If we receive this information not only from our tax authorities here in Estonia, but also from the Swedes or Germans will send us information, this information will not be distributed throughout the European Union, but only to the country where this tax revenue should be generated, I think it is rather positive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U153	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U154	Good manager! Good waitress! You said that this bill has come from the European Union, and we are simply taking note of it. But the explanatory memorandum says that this draft has been initiated by the Government of the Republic, the previous government, yes. But what would happen if we didn't pass such a law at all? As I understand it, something about this law does not change in someone's life, yet such a law has been prepared on the initiative of the Government of the Republic, and yet so brilliant that no one has any observations. Would it be over without this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U155	Thank you. It wouldn't work without it. As far as the government of the Republic is concerned, dear colleague, how do you imagine it? There are enough directives in the Commission of the European Union that are very difficult to support, but there are also practical ones, particularly those concerning banking, finance, industry, tax payments. I don't think there are any dilemmas in this area. If the European Union adopts a directive, what should it do after that, write 28 laws, one for each Member State or? It has long been agreed that, if a directive is adopted at the level of the Commission, the contribution of Member States to the joint work is that each country is developing changes within the framework of its own laws. You certainly know very well that the tax system is quite different in the countries of the European Union. There are more of these differences than I can imagine. See how business is taxed, what social taxes are, etc. So if the Euro Committee were to make laws for us, not send directives, then there would be trouble in the house, then we'd just fall apart. So this mechanism has long been tried: we will get the directive and, on this basis, we will change our laws. That's how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-08_U156	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I am opening negotiations for the debate on the draft provisions, which also does not preclude criticism and my opinion on the draft law. There are no requests to speak. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 322. The second reading is closed and today's session is also closed. Thank you for today's debates and debates. Women's day is far from over, neither for women nor for men. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.07 p.m.
