ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 38 members of the Riigikogu were currently registered for Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, is in briefing with the members of the government, and it can be expected and hoped that also Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment. According to the number of questioners, today I am going to give you the opportunity to ask a more specific question, as there are seven questioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! The Governor of Eesti Pank was here on Monday and answered our questions. Today, Eesti Pank's Financial Stability Review was published (quote): 'As the labour market is rather overheated and there are no significant obstacles to the growth of companies targeting the internal market, there is no need to stimulate demand in the economy at the expense of the general government deficit. ' And I would now stress separately: 'This could lead to an imbalance in the economy and weaken long-term growth. ' I understand that the government is acting in the perspective of the next elections and should also have a four-year perspective in terms of the RES, but it is actually very important what will happen in 2020 and later. In the course of its tax changes and borrowing, has the government considered how this will affect Estonia's economic situation and budget in the long term?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for this important question concerning Estonia's economic situation. I will begin by saying that you have made an assessment of your question as if the government were dealing with the next elections. In my opinion, the current government has set very serious, weighty and long-term objectives. We cannot get over or around what is one of our basic positions: the population of Estonia needs to be turned back into an upsurge. I cannot overcome or reverse the fact that the government's aim is to revive and get the economy going. It is certainly important to strengthen Estonia's internal unification, the coherence and unity of society and, of course, to keep our defence and foreign policy in even stronger focus. These are the four main objectives of the government. On this criticism, as if the government were only dealing with the next elections, I will only give a few examples. Pension reform, that is what we will look at until 2050. You are right, there will soon be a debate on the country's budgetary strategy, and we want to establish a model for financing sustainable healthcare very strongly and clearly. This is not related to the next or the next Riigikogu elections, but relates to a very long-term perspective. The government will certainly look far beyond one, two or four years. Eesti Pank has expressed several views on the Estonian economy. One is that the Estonian economy needs additional investments. This proposal has been listened to by the government and an additional investment programme has been launched.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U5	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U6	Thank you. Unfortunately, I didn't get an answer to my question, so I'm trying to rephrase it. As you know, society relies on you to learn about the economy, so you know a lot of investments by companies and companies. If companies do this year, the revenues will come in the next, i.e. not even in the next, but, say, four, five or ten years. If companies do not feel that they can invest, it will affect our future, not today or tomorrow, but in a bit of a long-term perspective. Speaking to entrepreneurs, listening to them and reading about Eesti Pank's financial stability review, as well as bearing in mind what Eesti Pank has been talking about in recent days, I think that this is an adequate time, all points to the fact that frequent changes in the tax system, which leave little time to react, increase the uncertainty of companies, thus hampering investment. Please tell me if you are considering a long-term perspective on tax and borrowing. How does this affect our society and our economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U7	Dear Maris Lauri, I'd still like to try to fit in with my long tirate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U8	Thank you. I think that every politician must look much further than the next elections and take into account the long-term perspective, as you said. I certainly agree with you here. In tax policy, we naturally take into account a much more distant perspective than one or two months or years. The same thing, I will come once again to the VAT increase from 9% to 14% for this accommodation, was to look at the distant perspective, and this will not come up. The increase in excise duty on diesel, which was due to come at the beginning of next year as decided by the previous government, is not to be observed. Now that you are talking about loans, there is a golden rule here: if the government and the state decide to borrow at all, then the money must definitely go for investment. This has to go to investments that will benefit us in the future through a better business environment, be IT costs, such as the same last mile, be the international conference centre, be infrastructure sites, get more secure infrastructure for entrepreneurs to use themselves, or be it a contribution to our education, to our teachers. All these things, of course, have a long view. The government has decided that we want more investment here, both from outside and from within the country. Activities such as special incentives for energy-intensive companies, so that foreign investments and head offices of multinational companies come to Estonia, will improve our business environment. So, of course, we're looking at a far-reaching perspective and taking steps that would help with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U9	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I would like a specific answer on what was also expressed here by the Governor of Eesti Pank, who said very simply: in the current economic situation, the budget should not be unbalanced and certainly should respect the rules. Why aren't you going to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U11	Thank you for that question. We have made it clear in our coalition agreement that the government keeps the state budget in structural balance as an average. Surely the budget cannot be reduced to the expense of future generations. If we want to make the budget in a particular position go below zero in one year, then this can only be done if the resources have been collected in the past, and if we want to relaunch the economy. If we look at one of the most important economic indicators, which is the negativity of the same GDP gap, this is actually the argument that more must be contributed to the economy, more must be stimulated and contributed to it. The common position of the government, not the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, but of the government, is that, if really in one financial year, the amount goes below zero, then only for the purpose of contributing to the economy. After all, Maris Lauri rightly stated that the reason can only be to look at the longer term and to make investments. It has indeed been decided by the government that we will make additional investments in order to boost our economy. If we look at the volume of additional investments, it's basically equal to the sum of the sum, even if in some years it happens that we go below zero. But in terms of perspective, of course, the budget cannot go negative for future generations. We can't let the budget down tonight, thinking maybe tomorrow we'll have a profit. No, the government certainly does not favor or cultivate such conduct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U12	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U13	The next question is for Home Secretary Andres Anvelt. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U14	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. By a recent decision, the Tallinn Circuit Court obliged the Police and Border Guard Board to grant a temporary residence permit to the American woman Sarah Raud because she is a homosexual with the Estonian woman Kristiina Rau. The Police and Border Guard Board, however, is convinced that the order of the Tallinn Circuit Court is illegal and challenged by the Supreme Court. What is your assessment of another example of such judicial activism in the Republic of Estonia? Do you not think that if the court interprets the law in this way arbitrarily, it is not a serious threat to the principle of separation of powers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U15	Thank you, esteemed vigilante. First of all, I wish you and the entire Riigikogu a good International Day of Diversity! But that's it. In replying to the other side of your question, how I view the actions of the courts, I will be very clear: I am sure that we are living in the rule of law and also in the Western cultural space, where executive power respects an independent judicial authority. I do not consider it right that the Estonian courts would somehow have exceeded their jurisdiction if they actually furnished the space that the legislator had begun, but had not completed. We are talking specifically about the partnership law and the implementing law that does not pass it. The courts have no choice if they have to provide this legal space to guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms of people, in some cases imposing obligations on public authorities. As far as this dispute is concerned, the Iron case, perhaps we have a little different information from different sources, because, as far as I know, the Police and Border Guard Board has decided to appeal, not appeal to the Supreme Court. The Administrative Court has made a satisfactory decision on the request for an extension of the temporary residence permit of that American woman, but the Police Department has gone on appeal, precisely to obtain legal clarity on such matters. Legal clarity is much more secure when he has passed several courts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U16	Mart Helme, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U17	Thank you. An employee of the Police and Border Guard Board, the head of the Migration Bureau, has found that Estonian law clearly states: marriage is a union between a man and a woman. In its appeal, the PBGB is based on the fact that the court deliberately broke the law. Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has also said that the laws have been sidetracked and need to be improved, but there is no law that can be implemented directly and indisputably at present. That is why we believe that this is judicial activism. Some form of drafting of the law is a completely Soviet-era voluntarist phenomenon, which is not in the Republic of Estonia as a rule of law, and I know that everything emphasizes: the Republic of Estonia is the rule of law, and it is neither conceivable nor appropriate. How do you feel about both the Chancellor of Justice and the High Officer of the Police and Border Guard Board making such statements? It's like you're talking back to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U18	Thank you, Mart Helme! Time's long gone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think that judicial authority must actually guarantee people's fundamental freedoms and rights in different respects. This may be through the application of some kind of law, for example in the course of a trial, if one or the other law is found to be unconstitutional. People themselves also have the opportunity to check the constitutionality of one law or another during administrative court proceedings. There's a lot of these things. In the present case, there is a conflict of laws between certain provisions, the law on cohabitation adopted shows the legislator's will to respect civil partnerships between same-sex people, and there is a family law that says that marriage is a legal relationship between a man and a woman. This is where we come to the third aspect that granting a residence permit from the point of view of private international law or, let us say, guaranteeing rights at all can be based on whether or not one or the other country must oblige it if it is against public order. At the same time, the courts have pointed out that the same provision may not be contrary to the fundamental principles of Estonian law or to public policy, since it has not led to any amendment of the rules of penal law or infringement of fundamental rights. So I think the opposite of what you said. You said that the courts did what they wanted in Soviet times, but I say that in Soviet times the courts certainly did not interpret the law, but they could carry out the wishes of one or another party committee. In this case, however, the Court is seeking a legal solution to the small deadlock that has arisen on these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U20	Jaak Madison, the question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U21	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In your first reply to Mr Helme's question, you have instead brought the Cohabitation Act into play, which has not come to an end in this Chamber. I therefore wonder if you will intentionally bring this matter to a different point with your answers. At the moment, we are talking about a marriage that has been concluded abroad and is intended to obtain a residence permit for one person in the Republic of Estonia. We are not talking about the implementation of the Cohabitation Act. As far as I know, both your own party, your partymates and members of the government have repeatedly confirmed that the partnership agreement concluded is not proportional to a marriage that is legally very clearly defined as an alliance between a man and a woman, an agreement. Why did you bring in a third aspect that has nothing to do with this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U22	Thank you. That is why I pointed out that this issue is broader and has been highlighted by the circuit court in its judgment, for example. When we are talking about taking over one thing or another from the point of view of private international law in another's jurisdiction, the concept of public policy is based on public policy, i.e. whether one thing or another is against public order. I brought this issue into exactly the same consideration as the District Court did, namely those institutions are not the same, but they are similar. The limitation of a person's residence permit is disproportionate in this case, as people are in close contact with each other and have also proved it legally before the State. This is where the question arises as to how we look at their question in our judicial area. The court has come up with its own position, the case has passed several courts, and I think there will be more such disputes. What makes me sad about this is that we always want some people to have the same-sex or special-sex happiness or a meeting of couples with some kind of political witch-hunt. Let these people live together here in Estonia or elsewhere in a foreign country if they are happy together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U23	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U24	Now the Environment Minister Marko Pomerants can answer, because he asks Küllik Kübarsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U25	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Last autumn, the Chancellor of Justice went to the Riigikogu and has also been in correspondence with both the Parliament and the Ministry about the constitutionality of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act. Indeed, on request, the private owner is able to dispose of land with a significant nature conservation restriction to the State. In practice, however, it has been established that the procedure takes between eight and nine years, so landowners are not guaranteed the possibility of receiving compensation within a reasonable period of time, which the Chancellor of Justice estimates is about one year. At the time, in the autumn, it was said that the Committee on the Environment was expecting solutions from the Ministry of the Environment. It's been six months now. What has been done to bring the law into line with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U26	Good afternoon. Dear People's Ladies and gentlemen, A little bit of clarification. The Chancellor of Justice drew attention only to the time limits of the procedure, but did not regard § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act as essentially contrary to the Constitution. But now I call the Environment Minister's actions. Firstly, the state budget has been increased to acquire property with conservation restrictions to the State. In the 2017 budget, EUR 3 million is planned for the acquisition of these countries, while EUR 4 million are planned for 2018. This means that the declarations submitted in 2017 are most likely to be resolved in 2019. So there is no reason to talk about nine years anymore. Second, in nine days, April 28th, s. a Amendment to § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act enters into force. It has been supplemented with paragraphs 5 to 7 in order to alleviate the situation of land owners with conservation restrictions, who have privatised their land from the state with a tax on their land, and which have been subject to intensive nature conservation restrictions by the state. The amendment introduced for the benefit of the Republic of Estonia the right to request the holder of a mortgage-charged immovable property to suspend payment from the mortgage-holder for the period in which the land was acquired in order. In the meantime, we have been able to carry out activities even without the Riigikogu intervention the government itself did. And I will also ask you immediately for an additional question so that I can talk about what else I have done. 'Cause there's something else that's been done, but I'm almost out of time. Please ask what else has been done!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U27	Well, even the Hatter has a chance. Let's see what he does. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U28	Thank you. My question, however, concerns whether EUR 4 million is sufficient, because there are 183 entries on the list of applications for the acquisition of immovable property since 2008, while those in 2006 are still in legal proceedings. If the recommendations of the Chancellor of Justice are to be followed, I believe that during this year the years 2008 to 2015 should be processed in order to arrive at a sequel, and indeed the same applications received in 2016 to 2017 should be processed within three years. What is your actual time and action plan for the 2008/2015 applications to be processed during this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U29	Thanks! We can still work for the money we have. I am simply pointing out that the activities of the Government of the Republic have revealed other areas with a need for money. Healthcare could be an example. As a former Minister for Social Affairs, I certainly support the funding of other areas as well. So in the environmental field, we have to accept these increased opportunities. However, we have not stayed to dwell only on the subject of the order of acquisition. The Government of the Republic has also approved in February 2017 amendments to the acquisition arrangements for the country. There is one such regulation, according to which immovables are no longer acquired simply by location, such as cities or towns. Similarly, in order to avoid problems such as long queues, storm winds or floods that may in the meantime reduce the value of the forest, account is now taken of the situation on the property at the time of acquisition of the land to the State in order to prevent the owner from reaping. In addition, forest owners whose forest is strictly protected outside the Natura site can also apply for private forest support. I now ask the cameras to Urmas Kruus, a member of the Riigikogu, because in cooperation with him, if he was still a member of the government, we achieved this! This is one of the measures of the rural development plan. The following rural ministers have also adhered to this plan and now the possibility of receiving EUR 110 per forest area per calendar year is added even if the land is not in Natura area with strict limits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U30	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Last week there was a very important debate on forestry. The well-known scientists Asko Lõhmus and Toomas Frey gave quite an unambiguous signal: if our logging goes on at the same pace, it will be at the expense of the future. How do you feel about the idea that our annual felling volume would be limited, say, by 10 million cubic metres, and the restriction would begin first and foremost from the state forest? At the moment, RMK has become a major tool for budget implementation, but this is not right. What measures will you take to make Minister Pomerants go down in history as Minister for the Environment, not Minister for the Forest Industry or clear cutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U32	No environmental ministers have probably been able to create as many conservation lands as Minister Pomerants, so please stay competitive! Ecosystems are important. I listened to your Thursday debate with a great deal of attention. I have to say that this was a very large database of virvards, for example, the waitresses thought that forest land was even five times more than Estonia's territory. But let it be. If we take the nature conservation restrictions that are on forest land in Estonia, they are primarily on the state's or RMK's land. Naturally, if communities are in private lands, then protected areas are also formed in private lands. In any case, I do not support the fact that some kind of limitation of cutting capacity, if it is necessary, will only take place in state forests, because 40% of RMK's land is currently under all kinds of restrictions. But when it comes to the ten million, again, the question is what to do with it. In the current coalition agreement of the Government of the Republic, the principle is that the cutting volume must not exceed the growth and precision: it concerns the economic forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U34	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Eerik-Niles Kross. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U35	Good manager! Prime Minister! The question concerns the Estonian government's policy or position on the centre against hybrid threats in Europe, which has already become famous. We have heard that the government wants to join it in the future, as well as read about the media, that Estonia participated in the preparations and had to join, but then fell off the list. There are several versions of why this happened. Do we have a money problem? If there is really a lack of EUR 60000 needed for a membership fee, then it could be taken, for example, from the city hall design budget, as 0.5% of it would be 60000. Is this suddenly some kind of coordination problem, i.e. the authorities did not reach an agreement on time, or really political stall tactics? Please explain this a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U36	Thank you for that question. Yes, you are right, Estonia was actively involved in creating a centre against hybrid threats. You are also right that the government considers this topic to be important and topical, i.e. we want, in any case, not only to be with us but also to participate. Maybe a few more words. NATO currently has 25 such centres of excellence and Estonia is currently participating in three of them: Tallinn Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation, Latvia and Lithuania. It is true that for several years now, unfortunately, we do not have a representative in the Lithuanian centre in the field of energy. The government considers this to be a priority and wishes to resolve this issue. Now that we come to the hybrid threat centre, the 16 countries that discussed this issue seriously have agreed that all those who join, including in 2017, are so-called founding members. To date, nine countries have officially announced that they want to be founding members of the founding centre in Finland. We have also decided in the government that we want to be founding members of this centre. Your groupmate has just asked, right here in Question Time, some questions about a balanced budget. That is why I say that, in the case of joining the Centre, one thing is the substantive side that we support, but secondly, we need to look at our budget and find the money for it. After that, we'll join.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U37	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Your answer also suggests that priorities are not exactly what the public is talking about. In my opinion, it would have been crucial and substantive, as well as signicant, to participate in this work and to find the means to do so, especially given the content of this centre's work and how defence expenditure has been increasing all along. Why do you insist on your actions that security is not really as important to you as you are saying?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U39	Thank you. Indeed, it is good to present the facts immediately before the honourable Riigikogu and before you, a good questioner. First of all, our defence costs are 2,17% this year. Our additional investments from this government.. are 60 million over the next three years from the Social Democratic Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Centre Party. These are additional investments. Now, I don't know why last year, when the preparatory negotiations took place, the government and the government's leading party didn't take it so seriously that they were included in the state budget. Yes, the questioner above was right to have an indicative participation fee of EUR 60000 per year, but this is added to the costs of one person or to the costs of his family if the person goes there with the family. We stand, of course, for a balanced budget. That is also what I said to the previous questioner, the budgetary issues must be decided in a very responsible manner. If we decide to join, there will be specific sums of money right on the other side. I say that there is a will and Estonia will definitely be a founding member of the hybrid threat centre, but now we also have to work and find a financial cover for it. I'm sure the current government will find that money. Yes, you are right, we have, of course, made Estonia's defence and foreign policy one of the priorities of our government, not only in words, but in very real acts. We are also trying to find additional resources in the field of defence, not only in the field of the Ministry of Defence, but also in the area of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because internal security is also important to the government. So what you do goes with words.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U40	Eerik-Niles Kross, clarification question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U41	It is still a little sad to hear you talk about the budgetary balance with a serious face and that the previous government should have found the money for it. I recall that your government has made quite a number of proposals to improve the budget you are planning to put 100 million in the city hall and several others. Don't you think it's disproportionate? Speaking seriously about national defence, especially in view of all the other costs you're spending, your message about not joining the centre leaves a slight comic impression.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U42	Thank you. I will answer very briefly, because I am probably starting to repeat myself. Estonia considers joining the hybrid threat centre important; the current government considers it important. We are certainly among the countries that are setting up this centre in Finland. The only small detail is that I don't know where the idea of 100 million going to the city hall is taken from. The government and the coalition have really discussed that Estonia could have an international conference and tourism centre, but we have said that the state could contribute up to 20 million a year, which is 40 million a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U43	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U44	The author of the next question is Arno Bridge and the answer is Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The previous point was about security, but on the other hand, the personal well-being of our Estonian people is also important. Estonia is known to be in the 66th place in the UN's lucky ranking. It's true, six places have risen lately, but it doesn't really matter if it's 72nd or 66th. What do you think has not been done by the previous government or what should be done to improve this situation, and our people would really have a happy life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U46	Thank you, good questioner! I think that the people of Estonia are doing well, that the people of Estonia's lives will be improved and that we will have confidence if we go to the shop to fill the shopping cart, these are important things. For us to have more healthy years of life, we would have an average life expectancy higher than these are very serious issues. You are right, we are indeed 66th in 2017 and we have been even further away in the past, for example, 72nd in the last year. If you ask what has not been done by one government or another, you have to look at the criteria for this happiness ranking. The people of Estonia have said three main things. First, poor financial conditions, second, a living environment and, third, personal relationships are a cause for concern. Now, when you ask what the current government is doing to improve it, as I said, one of the priorities is: the reduction in our population must be halted, and it must be stopped. Secondly, we have talked very much here about the fact that we really want to improve the income of people who receive a small or average salary by increasing the income tax-free minimum for next year. In my opinion, at the beginning of Question Time, Maris Lauri raised the very right issue of the economic environment, the business environment, which, after all, is a working environment, jobs, better wages. Things need to be further developed here, more investments need to be made and more support for our entrepreneurship. So it is a complex activity, so that the people of Estonia would really feel happier too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U47	Arno Bridge, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U48	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! How can we explain that our neighbour, Latvia, is ahead of us? And it is absolutely good to hear that our other neighbour, Russia, is ahead of us. Finland, on the other hand, is the fifth most important. How do you explain that we fell all the way back there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U49	Thank you. I guess, to sum up, one reason is that we have contributed too little to economic development. The same negative gap in GDP is an example of this. We have to fix it. Now, I see that just today, I do not know whether this is a coincidence or not, there is quite interesting news. At midday, the results of the PISA 2015 survey on student satisfaction were published. The fact that Estonian students have not only good educational outcomes but also happier than the OECD average was really interesting. It's a positive trend. Our future feels secure and happy. Let's hope this trend doesn't go away. What else can I tell you? I am certainly not the type of person who will now blame the previous government. I don't think that's gonna happen. All governments and prime ministers have done everything they can to improve Estonia's life, to make it better. But yes, really, I think, as Eesti Pank has also said, Maris Lauri brought this example on several occasions today, for example, that the net income of people on low and medium incomes must increase. I hope that the 100th anniversary events of the Republic of Estonia will also contribute to the creation of happiness in our society. On Sunday it was a very nice public trip, over 3,000 people, and there were very many happy people. I believe that the XII Youth Song and Dance Festival, which will take place at the end of June and the beginning of July, bearing the title 'I Will Stay' this year, will help create more happiness. So there are a lot of positive events this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U50	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U51	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! The news you have referred to about the students' happiness is, of course, very pleasant if it is the final truth. I have only one possible explanation for this: it is probably linked to the change of the government coalition, i.e. the escape of the previous government. But now, seriously, let us be honest, earlier studies have still referred to the lack of happiness for Estonian students, right? We have some of the smartest kids in the world, but they don't feel good at school. You've met a lot of students, I've been watching pictures of social media with a happy prime minister among happy students. What have these students told you? What would make them happier at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U52	Well, you made a very strong statement at the beginning of your question, of course. Unfortunately, I don't dare sign it. I think that the children's parents, mothers, fathers, grandmothers and grandfathers, but also school teachers, school environment and so on, are the main drivers of the students' wellbeing. I do not think that the government or the Prime Minister should somehow adorn themselves with foreign feathers in this sense. Well, we're gonna have to see the world more widely. If you asked about students, then really, I have about 150-200 classes every year that I meet, maybe there have been even a little more of them in a few years. If you ask them what their main questions are or what their opinions are about Estonian society, then you must say that students of the ninth grade, as well as students of upper secondary or secondary school level, are actually very familiar with current topics. They are primarily interested in the topics of Estonian defence and independence. They have asked what could be done by them and what could be done by the local community, so that they would have a future perspective of coming back home after graduating. Of course, many schools can give examples that students themselves are very active and come up with their own initiatives to improve the living environment of the local community. In my opinion, Estonian students show quite a lot of activity and also ensure that their village, parish or city becomes better. These are the main issues that are mostly of interest to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U54	Next is Ain Lutsep's question to Andres Anvelt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The task of the Population Protection Task Force is to find out what are the measures that we do not yet have in the legal area, i.e. what needs to be created and implemented. When it comes to emergencies, these measures and topics are in place and covered. However, if we are talking about a particular threat to national defence, unfortunately, we do not yet have any management decisions or normative decisions. Why is that? What is the plan and direction in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U56	Thank you, good ambassador. The question you raised is very important. The Ministry of the Interior will make its maximum contribution to reaching solutions. Let me talk to you about the background. The Population Protection Task Force operates at the State Chancellery, as the protection of the population as such is a much wider issue than the use of internal defence measures alone. You rightly pointed out that, from the point of view of national defence, we are not directly talking about the protection of the population in any law, not even the laws relating to national defence. That's a serious problem. We have discussed where we want to go at the hearing of the mid-term reports of the Population Protection Task Force at the Crisis Committee of the Government of the Republic. If, in November, the task force should report to the Government of the Republic, we are now directing it, at least from the Ministry of the Interior, towards talking about civil-military defence, or both: both civilly in peacetimes, when there is a crisis, and also in military terms, martial law. During martial law, the structure of protection of the population does not really change. People's needs are similar, just perhaps wider scope. The preparation is in both local governments and public authorities. The most important reason why the protection of the population is a broad-based approach is to prepare people to cope independently during a crisis. People's awareness is one of the main pillars of the whole population protection mechanism, and this, in turn, concerns the education system. So, the subject is very wide. But once again, the military side goes with the civilian side, they are inseparable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U57	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U58	Mr. President! Dear Minister, I would refer here to what partymate Krista Aru said that during the previous or, let's say, pre-war Republic of Estonia, population protection was primarily up to every resident to decide and do, i.e. it was handled in such a way that everyone must be aware. The population must be informed about the risks and be made aware of them. The relevant materials should be available and widely available. Education in schools should also be considered necessary. In Lithuania, for example, this is being dealt with. It's just a little brochure, but it's a thing. How have we moved on here? What are the specific actions to inform people, especially at municipal level, and also in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U59	Thank you. If there was more time, we'd talk longer, because the subject is multifaceted. The Ministry of the Interior makes a huge contribution to upper secondary schools in the field of education, for example, in the development and implementation of modules on the protection of the population of national defence education. Ten upper secondary schools all over Estonia have already been involved in the internal defence pre-vocational training of the National Defence Academy, but we understand that this is not enough. Actually, it should be part of the curriculum. If we are talking about protecting the population at all, it is based on three levels. One of them is people's own awareness of how to behave in a crisis situation. By the way, the Rescue Board's website contains primary recommendations on how to cope in one week during a crisis, which must exist, which is elementary. This is a very important part that has been neglected in Estonia in recent years. The Emergency Act, which was adopted by the honourable Riigikogu a few months ago and which will apply from 1 July, is now dealing quite vigorously with the division of tasks. But again, this is true in times of peace, in civil crises. Secondly, the local government, or community, comes into play and first needs to review the possibilities it has for school buildings or community houses, where and how many people can be placed in the event of evacuation, which primary food packages can be distributed according to social assistance, or whether there are shelters. The third level is the state, i.e. the public authorities, which have to ensure that they are able to cope in certain crises, according to their own competences. For example, if there is a general poisoning or epidemic, it is either the Health Board or the Food and Veterinary Office. All those...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U61	Yeah, I'm sorry! I got carried away. It's a long story, I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U62	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U63	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Let's get on with this. We have heard about this task force for a year and a half or longer, but exactly what this task force has achieved, what it has proposed, how much it will cost, does not know. My question now is this: is the budget strategy of the country currently under discussion designed, based on the proposals of this task force, to provide specific expenditure for the protection of the population?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U64	Thank you. As I said earlier, the Task Force will be ready with its proposals in November this year. This does not mean, however, that there is no money in the state budget for those who have certain obligations to have some margin (e.g. tents, blankets, etc.) and who have to replenish their reserves after a certain period of time. This concerns, for example, the Rescue Board. As far as the Police and Border Guard Board is concerned, they also have some small elementary reserves, although indeed I agree with you a hundred percent, they are not to the extent that Estonia would need in the event of a major crisis. We have discussed this with the crisis committee of the Government of the Republic, and we have identified all the concerns. For example, how long do some or other services have to work and how quickly they can stop? If we meet every three months in the Committee on Crisis, this topic is one item on the agenda, we will listen to the mid-term report of the task force and see where it is headed. We have also taken some interim decisions, for example, we have recognised another developed direction, the crisis telephone. Sadly, we still have not had such a direct crisis telephone in Estonia. We have wondered how this should work if there is a natural disaster or a similar event, such as the Pada Valley, and where people should be informed about how to behave. If we overloaded all distress calls on 112, it would lead to chaos in the operation of the Alert Center. All these things are under the eye of the eye, and I hope that in the autumn we will be able to discuss this together, both the government and certainly those of you who are interested.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U65	I will conclude on this issue. Jürgen Ligi, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tell me whether our Rules of Procedure allow us to correct this situation, where the Prime Minister answers exactly 180 degrees away from the question. Andres Ammas specifically asked why Estonian children are among the most unhappy according to PISA tests, but the Prime Minister spoke about why they are happy. Would the Rules of Procedure allow the question to be referred again or in any way to continue this debate and fulfil its objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U67	The current rules of procedure will give you the opportunities I have to offer you in Question Time. Much also depends on the number of questioners, it would be good if you could ask anyone who has asked for it the previous day. However, without any further questioning, it would be rather strange, so at least one additional question must be given. If anyone else comes up with an idea, they have to give him a chance. I would also like to improve the Rules of Procedure myself, so that Question Time is much more debate and more substance. For my part, however, I can say that when I have looked at the question, I have come to see that it is like a cake that you bring to the answer. If the question is substantive, the questioner often puts strawberry on it because he is a politician. If the answer only takes strawberry off the cake and eats it for two minutes, you can't blame him. But if the questioner didn't want to put the strawberry on, the respondent would be in a bad situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U68	Andres Ammas' question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U69	Honourable President, first of all, thank you for filling in a good two-minute Question Time. But now my question to the honorable Prime Minister. I will continue to talk to you and take this opportunity to further develop the subject that began with my colleague, Mr Lauri, on the first question, namely to talk about investment. On Monday, Ardo Hansson, Governor of Eesti Pank, did not take the liberty of making an assessment of the merits of one or the other investment. Of course, this is your responsibility as Prime Minister. There are many kinds of investments that you plan to invest, both those that simply employ representatives of one industry or another, and those that could ideally increase the productivity of the economy. Economic productivity is a key issue. What investments do you propose will increase the productivity of the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U70	Thank you, good questioner. I am really only responding to investment in terms of economic productivity. First of all, we have an agreement in the government that we want to make a strategic investment programme. Firstly, strategic investments can only be aimed at one thing: they must promote growth not in the short term, but in the long term, as Maris Lauri said. Secondly, of course, it is important that Estonia's competitiveness grows. These are two important assumptions. You asked where these strategic investments are. There are five areas in total. First, infrastructure or infrastructure investments. Secondly, investment in housing policy. Thirdly, the city hall related to the International Conference and Tourism Centre. Fourthly, investment in broadband, which would also lead to Internet access in families that are not in a densely populated area. Fifthly, we have seriously focused on investment in the field of defence policy, i.e. everything relating to defence. These are five major areas for strategic investment. In order to prevent your question of what these infrastructure investments are specifically, I will say that there is no final agreement yet. We certainly want to focus infrastructure investments on both roads and railways, including, for example, speeding up railways.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U71	Dear Andres Ammas, the questions I am not asked are not answered. Now, the second question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honorable Prime Minister! Together with you, we will be able to clarify which investments would increase innovation and, above all, focus on promoting R &amp; D.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U73	Thank you, too, for this question. This issue cannot only be seen in the context of investments; it must be seen in conjunction with the way the state behaves with R &amp; D. I had the opportunity to respond here a few days ago to your inquiry into the financing of R &amp; D. The R &amp; D Council decided that we will certainly not bring R &amp; D funding below this year's level. The goals of the government coalition and not only there, but also some of the documents adopted in Estonia have set a target, a target that we can raise from R &amp; D funding to 1%. As we know, this percentage is now slightly less than 0.80, which is 0.75 to 0.77%. It is true that, in budgetary terms, it means a size of EUR 50 million. Now that we are discussing the country's budget strategy for the next four years, I would certainly like to add that the budget strategy currently in force really lacks the part saying that at least this year's level should be maintained. The Minister of Education and Science, as well as the Minister of Finance, but also, more generally, the whole government coalition wants this to be really a minimum level. Such a call for funding has been included in our supplementary requests, and I very much hope that it will also be approved. In this case, keeping the same level of funding in the current RES key means around six to six and a half million euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U74	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt and Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U75	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 12th working week of the V plenary session on Wednesday. The international community is celebrating the Day of Diversity today. One aspect of diversity is that not everyone has a birthday today, but it is a birthday in Barbi Pilvre. So if you meet him on your way to life today, count on it. [[Let's hear it.]] Now is the best time to hand over drafts and inquiries. Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U76	Dear Vice-Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, I have the honour to pass the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council of recognized experts in the field of Estonian Public Broadcasting. According to the law, it is the task of the Committee on Culture to prepare this draft. As a result of lengthy and violent disputes and long work, candidates such as Paavo Nõgene, Agu Uudelepp and Rein Veidemann have been selected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U77	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft. We process this in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! There are 80 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U78	Today's first item is the third reading of the Planning Act, the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Amendment of the Environmental Management System Act, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Do the political groups want to negotiate? On behalf of the Meelis Mälberg Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U79	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a sensible draft. This draft has been directly linked to the plan of Estonian wood and forest workers to establish a highly modern wood refining plant worth EUR 1 billion in circa near Tartu. It is true that if the planning process takes place quickly and it assesses all impacts, it will contribute to the investment decision-making process. It is reasonable that interested parties should also contribute to the cost recovery. The 411 bill provides for the possibility that a contract will be concluded with the person interested in drawing up the plan, and the same person will be able to cover the costs associated with the planning process, while the public authority will remain the contracting authority for the plan. This helps to rule out a situation where he who pays also orders music. Rapid and expert planning is not only necessary for the construction of this innovative wood refinery. In the business world, competition for raw materials, markets, workers and other resources is very intense. This competition mostly knows no borders. A well-functioning public sector is not a final argument for investment decisions. There have been reports of very large projects looking for a home in the world, whether it be a large server park or a Tesla giga factory. The factory planned by our own investors definitely falls into the same category. Today, about 3 million cubic metres of paper is exported from Estonia because we do not have the capacity to process it. The public is not satisfied that raw materials go out unprocessed, and the forest sector itself is not satisfied. Processing this timber in Estonia would help to earn it four or five times and could pay more to forest owners and workers in the timber sector, a total of over 100000 people in Estonia. It will also create opportunities for new innovative productions and the development of researchers. Production based on modern technologies is environmentally friendly. There is certainly no need to be afraid of production because, or otherwise, the Nordic countries with very high environmental standards would not support or favour such projects. When the bill becomes a law, we have taken an important but still only one step towards increasing Estonia's international competitiveness. We shouldn't stop halfway. A new company can be established in Estonia in a few hours. We could aim for the planning process to be possible within a few months. It is elementary that the quality of planning must not be affected and all impacts must be best evaluated. But if the success of a major project depends on the ability of the state to be an effective and competent partner for the private sector, then we must make an effort. The Reform Party sees that a critical look is needed here. Bureaucracy cannot and must not grow over our heads. The money needed to support the public sector is provided only by business and must not be suffocated or limited by excessive bureaucracy. The Reform Party supports the adoption of Bill 411 as a law, as it will improve the international competitiveness of our economy and it will be able to find out more quickly what each investment requires. I call on everyone to support this very sensible draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U80	If there are no more requests, I will close the negotiations. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to the final vote on 411. As usual, it is preceded by pre-tuning in the form of a hall call sign. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law on planning and environmental impact assessment and amendment of the environmental management system law, initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs, 411. Please take a stand and vote. 77 parliamentarians voted in favour of this draft, no one opposed, and no one abstained either. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U81	The second reading of the draft Law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, begins. Erki Savisaar, member of the Economic Commission, will be the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U82	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act was initiated by the Economic Commission on 8 March. The first reading of the bill took place in Riigikogu plenary on 21 March and the first reading was closed. The amendment to the Railway Act aims to remedy the shortcomings in the transposition of the provisions of Directive 2012/34/EU in order to avoid possible infringement proceedings. The purpose of the amendment to the Public Transport Act is to apply until 28 February 2021 a derogation from Regulation (EU) No 181/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council to domestic regular services exceeding 250 kilometres and to regular services which are carried out in a substantial part outside the European Union. The Economic Commission discussed the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act 398 at its meeting on 11 April, where all procedural decisions on the draft were taken. The draft has undergone technical and linguistic organization in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and changes resulting from the language editor's comments have been introduced into the text of the draft. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments on 4 April at 12 noon. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft law amending the Rail Act and the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Economic Commission, to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 19 April with a proposal to finish the second reading, and when the second reading is completed, our proposal to make the third reading on 3 May and put the draft to the final vote on 398. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U83	Aivar Sõerd asks the waitress a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Commission waitress. I understand that this draft regulates the situation with regard to the depletion of railway capacity. There is no such situation at the moment. The capacity of the 34 train pairs per day is known to be the capacity of the Tapa-Narva section of the railway. Would you like to tell me how many train pairs are currently passing through the section of Tapa-Narva?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U85	Thank you. This is a technical draft, which is due to the demands of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U86	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'll open negotiations if I like. I can't identify that wish. As you have heard, there were no amendments to the draft. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 398. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U87	The third item is the first reading of draft 410 of the Riigikogu decision 'The fundamentals of Earthyard policy until 2050' presented by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment, for the presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U88	Good afternoon, President-in-Office and esteemed MPs. You have before you the draft development document 'Basic principles of Earthyard policy until 2050'. I've promised to bring it here. During the debate on the fundamentals of climate policy, MP Artur Talvik asked if I had anything else planned. The plan was fundamental to the policy of the earth, and now they are before you. If you're asking me if there's anything else I'm up to, the right answer is there isn't in the near future. Someday, though, maybe something will come. You have been presented with a draft development document entitled 'Basics of Landyard Policy 2050', prepared by the Ministry of the Environment and in cooperation with other ministries, public authorities and many stakeholders. This document defines the long-term vision of the country's long-term exploitation and protection of the earth, as well as the principles and trends supporting its implementation. The foundation of the ground policy was the Government of the Republic's 2016/2019. The task assigned to the Environment Minister in the 2011 Action Programme is to develop a long-term strategy and geology competence for the introduction of non-renewable Estonian resources and the proposal for a meeting of the Government of the Republic's Cabinet on 3 December 2015 to draw up the fundamentals of the underground policy. The Government of the Republic 2016. The task of drawing up the ground policy fundamentals has been specified in the 2006 Action Programme, as the document format was already in place at that time. You will see from this story that there is, however, continuity in the government's activities: once the process has started, it will also be possible to move forward in the next formations of the government. Due to the lack of a common policy framework and the fragmentation of the field, Estonia has not yet had a coherent and comprehensive vision for the development of the rural area. The establishment of the fundamentals of the underground policy was caused by the desire to determine the role and interests of the Republic of Estonia as the main owner of the ground and mineral resources in the exploration of the earth and in the exploitation and exploitation of the earth and mineral resources. In the document and in my report, the term 'outside the earth' is often repeated. Obviously, it is reasonable to first explain what we have meant by this and how the document should be understood in this regard. Under the fundamentals of the policy of land, land and land resources refer to all the potential of the land: mineral resources; underground land as land support necessary for the preservation and maintenance of land cover, for the carriage of buildings and for the protection of natural objects and monuments; the earth as a building environment used for the construction of underground installations (e.g. tunnels and reservoirs). Groundwater and geothermal heat are also included in the definition of the earth. All we left out was the math of the earth. In order to maintain the focus of the document, the working group decided not to treat soil as a ground resource because of its different specifics and problems. While some of the principles and trends in the document relate to soil, for example, environmental impacts and selection between land use methods, there is no more direct approach. Therefore, the present document does not need to be taken seriously into account when setting future soil-related trends. Returning to the logic of the document, I would like to make it clear that, in order to maintain the level of generalisation of the document, we have mostly avoided bringing out different resources in terms of principles and developments. Although, as I mentioned earlier, when we talk about the earth and the resources of the earth, many are the first to remember only natural resources, let us say that the document deals with groundwater as part of the earth's surface and as a resource, including, for example, groundwater. All relevant identified trends in ground resources also apply to groundwater, including ensuring adequate research, compensating for externalities, resource productivity requirements, awareness-raising, etc. Groundwater has also been considered in the context of avoiding and mitigating environmental impacts. The same approach applies to all subsurface resources covered by the document. As a long-term goal for Estonia in the field of the earth, we have formulated the need to ensure the science-based management and use of land resources, which seek economic growth and resource efficiency in the country, which is environmentally sound and preserves human health. At the same time, dependence on non-renewable natural resources must be reduced. As major developments, I highlight the design and implementation of a ground research and base mapping plan, the review of mechanisms for taking and distributing public revenue, ensuring appropriate compensation for resource use and externalities, the requirement to use resources without endangering human health and the well-being of the person without compromising, including by applying mitigation measures to disruptive effects, and the targeting of businesses towards green and innovative technologies and the principles of the circular economy. In the context of the sector's sustainability, we considered it very important to organise learning, research and development in the best way and to contribute to raising public awareness. This latter is a universal problem related to natural sciences. The role and initiative of the state in ensuring the development of the sector and overcoming the mid-term recession have been defined as a cross-cutting principle. More directly, this combines the division of sectoral tasks between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as the establishment of a national geology service, which allows, inter alia, the implementation of the research plans previously mentioned, and the collection and provision of sectoral information and advice to both the state and the private sector. The ground-based policy is based on the so-called 'coverage document' of sectoral strategies and legislation, and on land-based issues, it provides the basis for the preparation of other sectoral development documents and legislation. Horizontally, the fundamentals of ground policy have the greatest impact on planning and development in the areas of economic development, education, including environmental education and spatial planning. In order to implement many of the policies set out in the ground policies, the state can design a favourable regulatory environment, change the organisational structure of the sector and raise public awareness. In order to implement or follow several of the lines of action provided for in the Development Document, the State already contributes from the state budget through the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and other bodies, such as the creation of a geological service. Part of the activities will be implemented through private sector and third, non-profit sector instruments and contributions. As policies are usually not implemented as stand-alone activities but through the design and implementation of cross-sectoral and sectoral development plans, the financing of the activities will also be envisaged in forecasts and implementation plans for the cost of these programmes. The public sector budget contributes, within the framework of cross-sectoral and sectoral development plans, to the internalisation of the fundamentals and policies of the land-based policy, both from the state's tax revenue and from appropriate external instruments. One working group carried out the ground policy's fundamentals, and four sub-groups contributed to its content. The members of the group were appointed representatives of environmental associations, several ministries and public authorities, geologists, miners and universities. 22 organisations were involved in the sub-groups, including ministries, public authorities and industry associations, universities and companies. In addition to the broad stakeholder involvement group and sub-groups, a number of events were organised to prepare and present the document and participated in events organised by other organisations. The draft document was sent to all relevant stakeholders for consultation and opinion. On 2 March 2017, the Tallinn University of Technology organised a public consultation on the draft development document proposals. From now on, in May this year another conference will be held in Tallinn Cultural Coil to introduce the document and related activities. There's no city hall yet, is there? In order to ensure the topicality of the agreed policies, the development document is scheduled to be updated regularly every four years and to report on its implementation to the Riigikogu. In summing up, I stress the vision of the document: that the ground and the natural resources found there will be explored and used as much value as possible in a creative way for Estonian society, taking into account social, economic, geological, environmental and security aspects. As an advanced country, we must be able to be responsible for the consumption of natural resources and the effects it entails, not only for our own natural environment, but for the sustainable development of the whole planet. It is therefore necessary to strike a balance between the use and protection of the ground in order to cover its resource needs in a sustainable way. All of this is what this document wants to achieve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U89	Peeter Ernits opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U90	Good manager! Good minister! The year 2050 is far enough away, but I am asking specifically. Are there plans to mine phosphorus, to open up iron, uranium, or other mines, and when should this happen? Are there plans like this, and when will you think about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U91	Thanks! I will answer first in this style, as the problem in this Question Time was that a member of the Riigikogu asks as he wants, and the minister answers as he wants. I'll answer you in substance later. I have two sons, they're both leaving home this year, they've acquired homes in Lääne-Virumaa and they're still planning to spend their lives there. So when it comes to mining phosphorus, there's no reason to panic. However, if you answer this question directly, this development document does not provide for any specific time limits for the opening up of research or extraction. Whether such specificity will occur in the near future is a question of its own. Let's see how it's been to create a geology service. This service should be launched in Rakvere from 1 January 2018 to 2 January, I think. Above all, the work of this service will be to move forward with the geological mapping of Estonia, to organize existing databases, and possibly to deal with some kind of research, if any. But in these exciting areas, I don't think there will be any news in the near future. If they come, the state will certainly not hide them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U92	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The fundamentals of the policy on the ground are commendably many of these studies, R &amp; D and innovation. But did and how did the fundamentals precede the assessment of the trends and levels of R &amp; D that are currently needed to implement the ground policy? Do you see here the possibility of creating more programmes for the state in certain specific scientific directions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U94	Thanks! I will answer that question in my own way again. At the start of this strategy, there were three Estonian higher education institutions who made a cooperation agreement with the then Minister for the Environment that they should move on. If we are talking at all about teaching natural sciences or relevant sciences in Estonian higher education institutions, it must be said that there are at least four of these schools in total. In addition to the Estonian University of Life Sciences, the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology, I dare to mention Tallinn University. But whether the country in particular has any additional programme support, I am indebted to that answer. I know that in relation to the RITA programme and its dedicated funding for science, universities are working together and making use of these opportunities. This may be the first and closest thing that's going on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U95	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U96	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Everything about mining and mineral resources is an emotionally important subject for many people in Estonia. I would like to know your position on how such very capital decisions could be made. How should this decision-making mechanism work? It is clear that all indirect losses must be assessed. I am pleased that you spoke in so many paragraphs about groundwater. But we imagine that the founders of the mine believe that the benefits outweigh any possible damage. Could there then be a referendum, could there be a decision at the level of the Riigikogu to make sure that there is not only one business company's interest in building this mine?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U97	Thanks! Well, there are different problems in different places. I think there is a particular concern in Läänemaa with a potential miner. But there's nothing to invent today. As a result of your thinking, you yourself have accepted the amendments to the law of the earth by pressing a button. This is the case, on the one hand, with the law on the ground and, on the other hand, with regard to environmental impact assessments. There are environmental impact assessment processes and disclosures; these procedures exist. I don't see the need to change anything here. The quality of these processes is important. I have said to all potential developers that success can only be achieved on one path: not by trying to go through environmental impact assessments as cheaply as possible, but by trying to achieve the highest possible quality of results. Then the people will understand that these effects have at least been adequately taken into account, and in everyone's mind, the question arises as to whether it is acceptable to them or not. On this issue, I think, no legislator is able to spell anything out. Man's own thinking will always remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U98	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U99	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Indeed, any mining and subterranean activities relate to very acute issues. We remember that in its time it started the independence movement of Estonia as a whole. I guess that's still the case. I would not like to ask you, like my colleague Ernits, that something is about to be dug. This is not so easy for the reasons cited. I remember there was a problem some time ago that we weren't even allowed to investigate what we had in the ground, we weren't allowed to make wells to find out what we had there, it was almost equalized with mining. But first you have to know what we have, and then you can go on. Are these fundamentals legalised or even possible to describe more precisely what and how we have? Then we could move forward with what could be done at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U100	Very simplisticly, it can be said that it is not like, despite the work of our geologists for a hundred years, we do not have any knowledge of what is in our land. We have basic knowledge. Our basic resources, at least five of them, can, I think, name any other member of the Riigikogu. This may not be a very difficult task. With what should the country proceed now? We should move forward with a geological base map of 1:50,000. If this is done at the speed that Estonia can reach, then in 20 years the whole of Estonia could be covered. This, of course, requires funding. If you answer this almost specific question, too, I must say that there is no obstacle in the sense of law, such as ground research should not be carried out or wells should not be drilled. It's gonna take a geological examination permit, and once it's done, you can drill. This is a separate question, and I repeat myself, whether phosphorus can be mined in Estonia right now. The answer is no. The reason is that phosphorus has been declared passive mineral and research must take place before extraction, which would provide the basis for this decision that it is an active mineral resource that could be considered for authorisation of extraction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U101	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U102	A good colleague, Marrandi, understood as I would like to start mining phosphorus right away. That's not the kind of idea I had when I asked a question. The perspective is 33 years. But the earth is very rich in mineral resources. I repeat my question again: what will be the potential income from the use of mineral resources over the next 33 years? How is the transformation of passive stocks into active stocks determined by new technologies? I repeat, the question is intended for the next 33 years, not for any of tomorrow's-to-day keys.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U103	Thanks! I fully understood your question and did not see any bad motive there, as I do not see it in any of your questions, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. But it is clear that the mineral resources, whether phosphorus, graptolitargilite, dolomite, clay or oil shale, are present in the Estonian countryside. No minister can possibly claim this, he is then the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications or the Environment, that no such exploration will take place in the next 33 years. Rather, I dare predict that it will happen. The question is what is the purpose of these studies. If we come back to phosphorite and, for example, this 33 year, we must recall the words of Marek Strandberg, a well-known Estonian natural philosopher, former member of the Riigikogu, that the entire demand for fertiliser is a bluff at all. The farmer Marrandi thinks of it himself. However, this does not mean that it is not a mineral, the chemical composition of which may be of interest to people and which may have a market price. However, no such accounting was made within the framework of this development plan, which would have said that if we started to mine all the mineral resources available in Estonia at once or for five years, what one-off income could we get into the Estonian Treasury with this activity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U104	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U105	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Jõelähtme Municipality Government has sent a letter that is well marked on the proposal page, asking them to clarify the role of local government in this whole coordination process. Is there any fundamental change in the distribution of the roles and powers of local government and state here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U106	Thanks! If I remember correctly, I guess this proposal was not included, or was part of it. The ground strategy document does not make such a level of decision at all; this truth is found in the law of the ground. As you know, there are situations in which the government may decide to grant authorisation, regardless of whether the local authority is in a negative position to do so. It is always, I think, the best way to have cooperation between the developer and the local government is to reach a decision without the Government of the Republic having to intervene.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U107	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U108	Honourable President! Respectable Minister, please let's talk a little more about groundwater. There is no doubt that groundwater is an important mineral resource, and as such it must be treated and evaluated. How would you explain to the person in Estonia who is excited and affected by this issue, how this particular decision contributes to the conservation and preservation of groundwater?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U109	Thanks! We have dealt primarily with groundwater in the Water Act, not in the Ground Law. After that, you can check the verbatim, but I can also repeat it from my briefing. Everything that concerns groundwater, the same trends that have been identified for other subsurface resources, also applies to groundwater, including ensuring adequate research, it is important that we continue to have groundwater, above all in the form of drinking water and compensating for externalities, to meet the requirement of resource productivity, which means that a wise person or society does not waste groundwater, to raise awareness and, of course, to avoid and mitigate environmental impacts. The current composition of the Riigikogu has also contributed to this by making amendments to the Water Act, which primarily concern agriculture and possible groundwater pollution. So I think the legislator has made an effort to protect groundwater. It is a question of how people and organisations behave in a particular situation in the landscape, but we hope that they will behave sensibly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U110	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thanks for the answers. Kalle Palling, vice-president of the Committee on the Environment, will present the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a very good bill. The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft decision approving the fundamentals of the policy on the ground at the meeting of 410 Monday, 3 April. Mr Korb, Mr Kravtšenko, Mr Metsoja, Mr Mälberg and the speaker took part in the meeting. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Ado Lõhmus, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited as guests. The Minister explained that a working group had already been set up in 2015 to prepare the ground policy document. He pointed out that this was not a strategy paper but a fundamental principle of policy. In particular, this is a vision for the next 30 years, and therefore this document is not detailed, as there are a number of development and operational programmes in place in this area. In this context, a broader approach to the earth's surface has been introduced, i.e. besides mineral resources, the earth's surface is also considered as a ground support and construction environment, groundwater and geothermal heat are considered. Universities, the public sector and environmental associations participated in the formulation of the fundamentals of ground policy. Some questions were also put at the meeting of the Commission. A member of the Commission asked about the future division of labour on how tasks would be shared between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Minister replied that the Ministry of the Environment would dismantle the existing geology centre and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications with the creation of a geology service that would describe the country's raw materials economy and implement its policy. The role of the Ministry of the Environment remains to issue mining permits through the Environmental Board. The chairman of the committee examined why groundwater has been excluded from the ground policy, although it has been pointed out by a number of proposers in the coordination circle. The Minister explained that groundwater science, including the protection and use of groundwater, has been transferred to the Water Act. Andres Metsoja asked if there might be problems in mining gravel in areas where mining is already taking place and no permits are given to explore new deposits. The Ministry's representative, Ado Lõhmus, replied that such situations are very rare and that, in most cases, the granting of research permits is not hindered. The principles of security of supply shall be taken into account when granting mining licences. There is now a four-year forecast of the materials needed by the Road Administration, which can be relied upon. The Minister added that the grounds for refusal may be that there are mines in the area within a 50 km radius. Now I'm going to say the procedural decisions. It was decided to appoint Kalle Palling, member of the Environment Committee, as rapporteur for the draft 410, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 April and to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. It was decided to set a deadline of 4 May at 16 a.m. for the submission of amendments to the draft proposal. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U112	Honourable waitress, there are no questions for you. At first reading, representatives of the political groups will be able to negotiate during the general principles debate. I don't see that wish. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 410. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 4 May at 16 a.m. for the submission of draft 410 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U113	The fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Administrative Reform Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group. For a presentation, please address a member of the Riigikogu, Külliiki Kübarsep!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U114	Good vice chairman! Good Riigikogu! On 23 February, including the amendment of the Administrative Reform Act, the Free Party Group initiated a draft law, which could be called a draft law on self-determination of villages. The Free Party Group has drawn attention to the bottlenecks in administrative reform through a number of initiatives. One of the most burning issues is that villages as smaller municipalities have not been given the opportunity to participate in the reform. This is the level closest to the citizens. Life has gone down the road that many opportunities and services have become alienated from humans. In rural areas, there is often no store, no gas station, no post office, no ATM. Of course, the situation varies from region to region. Administrative-territorial reform, more specifically, because we have so far limited ourselves to drawing borders, was called upon to implement the idea that people's way of living across Estonia would become more quality and evener. In the course of the reform, however, things have gone wrong in the area. Self-government management is even more distant from people and territorial restructuring still fails to take account of people's real life trends, where there is a kindergarten, a school, a job and a shopping centre. People have developed their own habits, which today are no longer confined to their municipality, but also extend to a neighbouring municipality or city. Let me give you some examples. Members of the Free Party Group met with representatives of the villages of Ambla municipality. Their so-called centre of attraction is Tapa, which in its time belonged to Ambla parish. The children go to school in Tapa and the parents work there. The citizens of Ambla municipality submitted an initiative to the relevant councils a year ago. Ambla Vallavolikogu dragged the initiative through the procedure; Tapa Municipality was an open and benevolent neighbour. In the meantime, the Administrative Reform Act was adopted and entered into force. Ambla Vallavolikogu fought fiercely against the wishes of the villages. In the end, the village activists had nothing to do but address the Chancellor of Justice as well. The administrative court was also contacted, but eventually it was left alone. In this hall, we have addressed the problem of the villages in the municipality of Puka, which, as one of the few, has become a positive solution. It was the village's wish to divide Puka Parish between three centres, towards Otepää, Elva and Tõrva. This is how this municipality is splitting up after long struggles, unless the government brakes. In this case too, the Chancellor of Justice contributed with his observations on the procedure. The public has also given great attention to the villages of Sauga rural municipality, which are sided with Pärnu, even the Prime Minister himself has been in this area. The villagers received him at the door of the parish council in a cold courtyard, they were not allowed into the house. Much of the life of these villages is related to Pärnu. It is very keen to see how administrative-territorial restructuring takes no account of people's natural pathways and their needs. There are more and more examples. I will conclude with the initiative of the villages of Vara rural municipality, even this Monday during the round of inquiries. Every county has one problem or another. The administrative reform has been intensively carried out for more than nine months. This has revealed shortcomings due to indiscretion. One of the greatest evil roots is the claim of 5,000 inhabitants. When the administrative reform was discussed, several experts spoke about the balance between the functions of local governments and the revenue base and about the possibility of creating a system that would be as flexible as the actual service needs of one or the other municipality. It was said that municipalities should be their own governments. However, these same experts were taken to the state's pay, and their wise speech so far took a second turn. The requirement of 5000 inhabitants has led to a misunderstanding, as if the Estonian state would be cured and the places with regional differences would be transformed into a whole. Unfortunately, that is not the case. It is going to be that regional differences may become more acute. We are developing new municipalities with more than 5 000 inhabitants as a result of the reform, and there are many municipalities with more than 11000 inhabitants, which was the limit recommended by law. But the scissors are still big. We have two arguments that we want to acknowledge with the initiative of the group. The results of the administrative reform will be stronger, the sooner we can recognise its mistakes and demonstrate our ability to react quickly to them. The stronger the villages, the stronger the municipalities. We must recognise that in the larger municipalities resulting from the administrative reform, the village activist plays a very important role in shaping place identity and showing people that it is a good place to live in the country. I understand that one of the troubles in this hall has been that life doesn't go away in the country. This requires the creation of measures and conditions for people to remain in the countryside, in their homes and to create values that increase our people both in spirit and in numbers. The right attitude towards our people must be started, and the attitude towards our villages must also be changed. The administrative reform cannot and must not be designed to survive the 2017 municipal elections. If you're going to reform something, it's going to be a long way. If, in the course of the administrative reform, it is not possible to take into account the possibility of self-determination of villages and to carry out research into the movement of people, which could be one of the bases for decision-making, then the use of this concept is unjustified, even criminal. Criminal in the sense that people's wishes and expressions of will have been deliberately turned away. The rulers have then said plainly: we do not rule by thinking about the people; we rule by thinking about ourselves. The more members of the coalition and the opposition talk about administrative reform, the more it is recognised that this is a situation that actually does not satisfy anyone. There are shortcomings in the law and there is no real sense of life. Movements have taken place since the beginning of the new year in order to correct errors, or even in order to show disappointment towards the rulers. Unfortunately, in these discussions, we do not feel that we members of the Riigikogu have the power to turn up sleeves, to get to work quickly and to remove bottlenecks as soon as possible. On the contrary, the results of local elections are expected to be lazy first, and then on 1 January 2018, when the Administrative Reform Act has done its job. Listen, isn't that a confirmation that the Riigikogu has had the government (and the previous government) shoved into its throat by this law? This can't be acceptable! On Monday, the Minister of Public Administration came before us, who simply complained that the legislator had put him in a bad position in this and the second and third matters. Even the Chancellor of Justice made a very clear assessment in reply to the inquiry that the maze and interpretation of the laws surrounding the administrative reform law and the subject matter are so terrible that one lawyer takes at least four days to develop a comprehensive understanding. It's not normal. We want to be a democratic and legal-clear state, but it is too much for the local governments and, in fact, for the people sitting in this Chamber to find out. There is no stalling in the nature of the Free Party Group. As the proverb says, where you can see the error, come and help. Yes, unfortunately, this is a novel approach which is not accepted by this House. But that is why we came here to break the political dogmas and bring new breathing with courage and determination. Our proposal in itself is very simple: we propose that § 6 (3) of the Administrative Reform Act be amended. The baselines are as follows: Voluntary accession is over and the Government of the Republic plays a leading role in the process of administrative reform. We naturally assumed that the draft could have been dealt with before 15 April (until then, the village elders could be presented with proposals for self-determination), but hope is not lost. Until 15 May, the councils will be able to express their views on the government's proposals, and until 15 July, the government will be able to make decisions. Second base. The Government of the Republic can deal with the self-determination of villages on the basis of survey results and/or citizens' initiatives. The local people themselves must come out with a very clear declaration of intent. The citizens' initiative is understood in the context of this draft within the meaning of § 32 of the Local Government Organisation Act, which allows questions and proposals to be initiated by at least 1% of the population of the municipality, but there must be at least five initiativers. Why do we anticipate both options, surveys and initiatives? The reason is practical. Some villages took initiatives even before the Administrative Reform Act came into force. Somehow, from 1 July, there was great indecisiveness in the councils, probably hoping to turn their backs on the initiatives. At the same time, these decisions are very clearly thought out by people. If councils have not been able to handle initiatives with dignity, it must be possible to turn to the next institution, the government, with the same initiative to give the opportunity to argue and to stand up for their interests. It is worrying that administrative reform will strongly introduce the concept of public polling, but no legal or political weight will give it. Addressing the government through a public survey is at least an opportunity to increase political weight, because it is no longer a matter of community interest but a national issue. Do you know how much people want them to be cared for and thought about at national level? This attitude is needed as air, because the long period of government of one party has alienated the people from the rule of state and vice versa. Centre Party, you have the opportunity to break that understanding, not to fit into the same vagina you've preferred so far. With this bill, we will give you one last chance to prove that you are actually prepared to change the culture of governance. The third assumption: once the statement of villages has been received, the government itself will turn to the relevant councils, on the basis of the Estonian Administrative Division Act, which provides that the government has the opportunity to take any initiative. The fourth assumption is that after listening to the representatives of councils and villages, the government makes a reasoned and clear decision. The fifth assumption is that all of this can be done quickly and correctly if there is will and courage to work. If there is no will and no working practice, any initiatives can be answered in the negative. It was strange to hear the arguments in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, although the government can take a leading role in the context of administrative reform, as the Free Party offers, it is not possible to trust the members of the government. That's what the coalition's members said! Hey, you guys are totally contradicting yourself! With one side of your mouth, you claim that the government is a megatubli, the leading party adapts quickly to the pre-defined frames of the Reform Party and does the thing, even blindly, that none of us expected. On the other hand, you say that members of the government cannot be trusted because they have too much opportunity to communicate with the people. You yourself have authorized these people to serve as ministers in the political parties. Do you trust them or not? Please make up your mind! Good Riigikogu! Please, let's meet people and help shape their future together. The government has a leading role in the enforcement phase. The Prime Minister is expected to be immensely responsive. The locomotive and direction indicator of the state reform and the development engine and visionary of the whole country should be its own. Please give the government these levers and opportunities! We give the government the opportunity to quickly remove the bottlenecks in administrative reform, so that there is no greater disappointment in the Estonian country, which will inevitably take our people away from the country, often abroad, because the opportunities for this are well open. These, however, are the enterprising and able persons we need in the development of the Estonian state. We need them as gold that our soil doesn't give. I call on you all to support the initiative of the Free Party Group to help villages find their natural and healthy way of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U115	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U116	Good manager! Good waitress! You're not just screaming, though, of course, you're shouting pretty loud and you've been spotted. But this is an important matter: how to straighten out the boundaries of the municipalities, in this case the borders of the villages? But it seems to me that you've started with an ax solution. Divorce does not only mean that I want to break up with someone, but it also brings about all kinds of economic and other problems. Why didn't you get more detailed and put more divorce stuff into your bill? The only thing you put in is that if five of the villagers or a little more people get together and they decide to break up, that's the way to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U117	Thank you. It's not worth provoking with that five people. For example, if there are seven inhabitants in the village, the law states that the minimum requirement is still five. That is the point of this criterion. I pointed out in my speech on a few occasions that when administrative territorial changes are made, proposals and thoughts are not based on any analysis of the content. I will take Tallinn's settlements, for example. I myself am a resident of the colony of Pelgulinna, and I also consider it my village. Several habitats are involved in the topic of the raid road because it changes their living environment and everything else. It is very sad, however, that people themselves turn to scientists who will help them to carry out mobility studies that will determine possible trajectory and needs in the region. In fact, we have all the charts and maps. If you also look at the draft terms of accession, you will see that they are all listed there, but for some reason they are not taken into account. We expect that the reform will be carried out over a longer period of time and this is an opportunity for real movements and needs of people to be translated into what is known as today. Our draft is, in this sense, a very simple solution, that we want to give the government the opportunity of direct communication, because this is a period of forced mergers and the government has a leading role. If we started to come up with more criteria, we'd go really deep. It must be acknowledged that the Free Party trusts the government in this matter and gives it the means to act. The question now is whether the Riigikogu trusts the government and supports the members of the coalition in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U118	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U119	Thank you. I have a very specific question again. You used a term like "part of the territory." There is no administrative division such as the 'territory'. The territory is a territory and part of it is a part of it. Suppose some part of the territory in Narva wants to join Vaivara municipality, such as the Kreenholm district or a few streets in the suburbs. Does it fall under this law? I'm not picking on you, it's just that the law has to be clear. What's part of the territory? If some part of the village votes for one municipality, another wants to join another in the course of the survey, will it be taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U120	Thank you. Within the framework of this draft, we still consider the part of the territory inside the municipality to be part of the territory. These are the terms of your own benchmate: village, settlement. They're defined, and they actually exist on the cards. We are not thinking of a street-by- street division here, but of a territory created by a specific name.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U121	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U122	Good waitress! Good manager! I always drive through the Lootvina village, which the people would like to join the present Haaslava parish, but the lords of the Vasts-Kuu say you can't get anywhere when the election is over, we'll see. That's pretty absurd. But the Minister for Public Administration has been instructed by the end of May, I repeat, by the end of May, to develop further views on the additional possibilities for changing the boundaries of administrative units. Do you suddenly agree to wait until the end of May for the Minister of Public Administration to come up with plans to resolve the problems in villages and not just in villages to another municipality? This would be a response to the government coalition, which has promised to come up with proposals by the end of May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U123	Thank you. You described very vividly what is currently ruling in Estonian municipalities. It's fear that the number of x votes will disappear by joining the villages. That's why local government elections are expected. I do not think it makes sense if people are being held because certain Commissioners are getting their votes. On a number of issues, the government has promised that, yes, we will wait a little bit, we will come up with our initiatives, but so far, practice has shown that these promises are being delayed, delayed and delayed. I sympathise with the Minister for Public Administration, who is currently in a huge workload and his team in the same way. Will they be able to come up with new solutions before 15 July if the government takes the last administrative-territorial decisions? I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U124	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, If you're talking about democracy, I agree with you a hundred percent. But I remember, I believe that we all remember that there is a constitution in our country. I can't remember in which section of this section we're talking about having two administrative units, a city and a parish, and our whole life goes through these councils. But today you're talking about a village that's a small part of the parish territory. All these things you're talking about can be carried out by the parish council by acting in everyday life. That is, in my opinion, democracy, where there is no anarchy. How does your proposal fit in with the Constitution? Perhaps you will comment on your position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U126	Thank you. Yes, indeed there is a situation in which the Constitution only provides for the municipality and the city. But I will answer you in such a way that not all things can be written down and whether it makes any sense to write down everything. The Constitution says one thing: the highest authority is exercised by the people. Perhaps we should trust the people and rule according to the wishes of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U127	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U128	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna use 20 seconds to answer Mr. Korb quickly. This place in the Constitution is undoubtedly a work accident of the Constitutional Assembly. There was no way of expressing the idea that we had single level municipalities, and this failed wording was chosen. So I call for this to be something that we could work on together. But in my opinion, we use words in a certain way. We're talking about the village, but there's actually a problem with people living in a house. The question is legal philosophy. It has never known for which reasons a single vote was obtained and has formed a local council. Is it like a lentil soda sold out your rights forever?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U129	Thank you. I hope that's not the case. You can't do that. We live in a free country, we have the right to express our views and opinions. Our task as a Riigikogu is to create and promote opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U130	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U131	I say in the reply procedure that I cannot agree with this, as if we were talking about the Constitution, talking about absurdity. What has kept the entire Estonian state for 30 years is written in all the sections of the Constitution. So I urge the Free Party to start with the Constitution, but not because we are changing the paragraphs that relate specifically to administrative reform.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U132	Thank you. This is your personal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U133	Helmut Hallemaa, hopefully that's the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U134	Thank you, President-in-Office. All right! You answered on the level of a single village. Later, you commented differently, and this bill has also spoken of the region. In fact, it is also possible that Otepää may even be in this company. It's a theoretical opportunity. But let me give you an example of Sauga's village, which has been very much discussed here. My question concerns the directions or timetables you dealt with. This has been studied by the geographers of the University of Tartu on the basis of the mobile positioning method. I myself believe that there could have been other criteria, but one criterion of 5000 has been recognised as constitutional. My question is: how far will these timetables be dealt with? After all, the main directions are county centres, large centres and also Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U135	Thank you. Indeed, the routes are eventually concentrated in certain centres. I live four kilometers away from the Otepää Center. Otepää is indeed five minutes away, but the actual centre is Tartu, not Valga, which is the county centre. Valga County, as such, is an artificial formation that has developed in its time. About the direction of the movement, you've already turned it down. If you go to the comment you presented at the beginning, you can mention the survey of the residents of Ambla municipality, which they did a year ago. These materials are all on their own website, on the website of the municipality, on the website of the county government, in the documents registers and, since they have all written to the Chancellor of Justice, they are also available at the office of the Chancellor of Justice. They have not only been confined to villages, but there is also Ambla's village. It's not worth blowing up our favourite village self-determination instrument. It really doesn't just concern the villages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U136	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U137	Thank you. Personally, I think that, above all, the solution to the problem of such villages comes down to local political culture. Whatever legislative regulation still affects someone's interests, it is a majority or a minority, but there are definitely people who feel that the situation is unfair. But let us wait for any new proposals. I wanted to ask you about terminology. The bill isn't very voluminous, it's quite simple and short. Has the waitress taken the trouble to find out what the municipality is and what the settlement unit is? Listening to your report, it seemed to me that you have no idea, and these very important things are getting pretty mixed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U138	Thank you. Yes, I've really treated them as if they had the same meaning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U139	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs Helmut Hallemaa will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U140	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, I will present the position of the commission, i.e. the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the Commission, too, this issue, i.e. the idea of supporting settlement units and communities, including villages, found sympathy. That's how we formulated it. A number of people in this Chamber also asked about this. The same was reflected by the government in its draft non-supporting position, which I will talk about a little later. The Commission held its meeting on 10 April, which is reflected in Protocol 108. All members of the Commission were present: Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits. The meeting was chaired by Ken-Marti Vaher, Chairman of the Commission. Of course, the councillors of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs were present. The Government was represented by Olivia Taltud, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department of the Ministry of Finance. The Government made its decision on this issue on 30 March 2017. This draft itself was submitted on 23 February. This was eight days after the government had already initiated and sent out proposals under the Administrative Reform Act to change administrative boundaries and unite municipalities. The government is now waiting for the reasoned positions of local authorities to make their prudent and motivated decisions. The government really did not support this draft which is currently under discussion. I consider it important to note that it is not very common for the Government, despite a negative decision, to support the positions proposed in the draft on the substance. In particular, the government supported a clearer definition of the role of communities and villages and the transfer of rights to them in certain matters. In its official position and in a letter to the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, the Government said that despite not supporting this draft for certain reasons, the Government of the Republic recognises active citizenship, the involvement of residents in local decision-making processes, the expansion of opportunities for participatory democracy and the initiatives of residents. In the Commission and in this Chamber, Commission Member Peter Ernits also dealt with this in his own questions. The Minister of State Administration has been tasked with drawing up, by the end of May, views on additional possibilities for changing the boundaries of administrative units. In the Commission, Olivia Tellet, a representative of the Ministry of Finance, mentioned that it is possible that this deadline could be extended. Külliki Kübarsepp, too, rightly mentioned here that the Minister of Public Administration is really busy right now. In the Commission's debate, as in this Chamber, the initiators were represented and the Külmiki Kübarsepp gave a presentation. Mr Madison, Mr Hallemaa, Mr Aas, Mr Ernits, Mr Adams and Mr Padar spoke. The discussion concerned very small territorially, specific villages and regions, as well as more substantive matters in general, i.e. the whole problem from the administrative division of the Estonian state to the administrative territorial division, whose units are then really settlement units. As a member of the Commission, Jaak Madison was interested in polls in the Ambla region, and the answers were also heard in this presentation. One of the complex aspects was that both the initiative and the survey were carried out before the law came into force. So, actually, if they want it done by law, they're gonna have to do new surveys. No law can be applied retroactively. I myself was interested in the very same thing in the Commission, which was asked how to define the concept of 'initiative' used in the draft. As the responses of the representative of the initiators of the draft, it is actually not in line with the provisions of the KOKS, because the percentages and the whole definition of the boundaries of the municipality and the number of inhabitants are based there. Indeed, there must be at least five people to do such things. There are isolated areas in Estonia where such initiatives and surveys have been carried out. In particular, Puka is a place where movement takes place in three different directions, towards three rural municipalities in different counties. One more important thing before I bring up the government's position. Jüri Adams pointed out that a number of border problems dates back to Soviet times and that reforms would succeed once they were thought out and the conditions for their implementation were created. For example, family names were brought to Estonia, but it was a matter for individuals. Changing borders and administrative territorial distribution is still a collective change and a territorial change. It has already been said in the past that we have a unique opportunity in the context of administrative reform, because this administrative reform is both voluntary and with certain compulsory elements. In the past, as good examples of previous discussions, the 1938 administrative reform, as well as the Latvian reform, were both clearly central and led from above. Undoubtedly, justification is important. I mentioned in the Commission, and I say here too, that I do not believe that these limits are linked to the Soviet era. Undoubtedly, these 50 years affected the division of administration and the location of people. Yes, they affected the last 50 years and will certainly affect the next 50 years. Each period inevitably affects the location of people and the steps they take, and even the developmental steps really direct people from one place or another to one place, another place or third place. However, very significant changes have taken place within 25 years of regaining independence in the form of urban sprawl. At the end of the debate, a few things will always remain unresolved with such major reforms. Ivari Padar summarised it so that every reform comes with loose ends that cannot be abolished immediately. So, in the context of administrative reform, we will certainly have work to do at both local and national level in the future. But why did the Government of the Republic consider it necessary not to support this draft for legal and technical reasons? One of the key questions is also stated in the first paragraph of the Government's reply: 'The amendment proposed by the draft would lead to a violation of the principles of the right of self-regulation of local government laid down in § 154 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and Article 3 (1) of the European Charter of Local Government. ' In fact, it is important that this has been asked from the highest level to the local level, whether the right to self-determination of local governments will remain valid and at least at the same level as it is now, even in the case of new financial opportunities. I hope so. But the same is true of all the other questions of local life. Similarly, the movement of settlement units within the borders of their municipality or city is, in fact, a self-governing right and must be maintained in the future. We want or do not want, all the municipalities elected in Estonia, both city councils and municipal councils, have still been elected by people and with significantly greater participation than allows for the draft on the table today. But I will finally stress once again that, as a result of this draft, the Government of the Republic has given the Minister of State Administration the task of proposing changes to the administrative territorial division and the boundaries of the settlement unit in the first half of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U141	Andres Herkel will do the first question on the report he has just heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U142	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your real presentation, you made one such reference that the government or the government coalition took a rather unprecedented position and supported the substance of the draft rather than the draft itself. Does the new coalition have a specific term for such an interesting position, can it be called pseudo-support or something?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U143	Thank you for your question. What can I say? It has been said quite a few times over the last few days that the idea was certainly not what you read out of it. The government will certainly take into account a large number of substantive things and proposals. Today, this information and comment were clearly and in quite a large section of the answer. I did not begin to state all the reasons for which this draft was not supported for legal and legal reasons. In fact, there were six reasons in that letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U144	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U145	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I come from high poetry to prose. Explain, please, what form this interview will take. Is there simply an interview in the form of an interview or an electronic vote? How many people have to participate in this minimum? If, for example, 10% of the population of a village participates in the survey, and six of these, or most of the ten, support any decision, such as joining an adjacent municipality, does this result in strength? How can this be seen as a result of the initiative? The initiative is an initiative. What will be the result of the initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U147	Thank you. I do not think it would make sense for the survey to start developing new regulations, but to follow the current regulation on the scope and procedures for determining the opinion of residents of the Government of the Republic, adopted on 28 July 2016, 'The scope and procedures for determining administrative organisation and changes to the boundaries of the administrative unit'. This regulation is established pursuant to § 7 (8) of the Estonian Administrative Division Act. I do not think there is any point in creating new regulations or hypotheses for the survey. Now for the initiative. Known as I said, it is possible, on the basis of KOKS, to submit a proposal to the relevant council on the basis of villages or any local government issue. Our proposal is so that the same initiative can also be presented to the government. We expect and see that it is possible for the government itself to develop a practice here, how it deals with it and how it takes account of it. We have not come here to make direct commitments to the government. We have come here to create opportunities for the government to discuss and take into account the views of the villages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U148	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U149	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague, Külliki! Yes, support for villages, support for communities at all is sympathetic. That is what I will be talking about in my speech that will start soon, and this was basically supported by the government. I am the founder of the village movement in Estonia and Viljandi County, so I am fully connected to the villages. My question, however, concerns one very specific matter and is due to the Administrative Distribution Act of the Estonian territory. According to § 6, settlement units are settlements and settlements. There are four types of settlements in the rural municipality: villages, towns, towns and towns. The city itself is also a settlement and can be divided into settlements. So there are actually six types of settlement units. Why have they been chosen to be this one, or village?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U150	Thank you. We do not assume that other administrative units will have the same activity, which will determine the positions of their community. Our assumption is that there should be a common, sideline. There is no point, for example, if the southern part of Otepää Municipality wants to join the Tartu part. There must still be a logical geographical whole, which can be defined by the borders of a common territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U151	Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U152	Thank you, good manager. Good billwriter! An interesting paradox has emerged in Pärnu County: in those municipalities that are joining Pärnu, the people said no to the merger, but in the Sauga municipality that you mentioned, which is not joining Pärnu, some people are eager to join Pärnu. How would your proposed draft help the people of the first-named municipalities who do not want to join Pärnu, but must go under Pärnu by force? There's no village movement to step out by village. How can you help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U153	Thank you. I was also honoured to meet the representatives of the villages who are eager to join in the direction of Pärnu. They acknowledged that since the laws are so complex and they are not aware of all the possibilities and deadlines that should have been carried out in one way or another, their case is difficult. There's already been a survey, and one merger has started the bikes. How can we help them? First of all, they want to be able to raise the issue at the government table. Government representatives have been on the scene, but people expect a very clear message and decision as a result of the meeting. They didn't get it. I think that's what matters here. We can now give the government the opportunity to consider, communicate with people and discuss and perhaps offer some compromise solutions. I do not think it makes sense to wait for 1 January and then the representatives of the villages will re-create signatures and ask questions so that the objective that they now have is met.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U154	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! When we drafted this bill, we had three important things to know, I'd say, a place of trouble. One was in Sauga parish, one was in Ambla parish and one was in Puka parish. The citizens of all these villages have also approached the Chancellor of Justice. But there are more villages like these that want to go their own way. Recently, there was an article in Postimees about Lootvina village, located in Vastse-Kuuste municipality, and wants to join in the direction of Haaslava rural municipality. Is there a reliable overview of how many such villages there may be, or is there a intention to review all the places where the shoe really squeezes? We have a National Reform Committee here too. Is that what this committee is doing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U156	Thank you. The Special Committee on State Reform has not addressed the issue and, to my knowledge, we do not have such a large database either. However, it is estimated, thanks to media coverage (regional media have been very active in the coverage of this topic), that if the local government has this issue up, it affects an average of 7 to 9 villages. On Monday, we discussed the example of Vara parish. There are 18 villages. Sizes are different, but if you count, we can make it to 100 villages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U157	Marko Šorin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U158	Good billwriter! I thought your answer to me was a little blurry. It seemed to me that you crawled behind the back of a nation who was especially powerful in making a voice, perhaps expressing his will out loud. But I'll give you another example of Sauga. 87% of the people there want to join in the direction of Pärnu. There's a small part left, who certainly doesn't have that much voice. If this manless patch of land is between the city of Pärnu and other municipalities, the neighbors do not want it either. Once again, no one will notice those less vocals, even you. How do you help them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U159	Thank you. I'll bring the parallel to this hall. It's the same here. Eight members of the Small Free Party Group are working and screaming, but nobody notices, and everyone does what they want.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U160	Mr. Hallemaa! I think you've taken on a pretty far-fetched task right now, you're trying to connect the unconnected. I certainly believe that if you were the Minister for Reform or the Minister for Justice right now, these things would go better. But in the current situation, it is possible to put forward such a combination: the content of the draft is largely positive and sympathetic, but there are two minor errors, firstly, that the draft has been presented by the wrong authors and, secondly, that it has been tabled too early. In my opinion, these claims are somewhat offensive, not so much to the drafters, but to those people whose life's work is the subject of the draft. Perhaps you wouldn't necessarily try to connect these things to each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U161	Thank you for these direct or undirect compliments. But I don't think I said anything like that. This is due to the fact that the bill has tried to record a number of things, in one sentence, but these things do not fit well with the laws and regulations already in force. Rather, I said, however, that this bill had been tabled later, not sooner. Certain processes and very important steps have been taken by the government in the context of the Administrative Reform Act, which was adopted in the first half of last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U162	Mr Šorin, do you have a procedural question? If not, we are currently bumping into § 68 (3) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act because two oral questions can be asked. Thank you very much for the presentation. It is now possible for the political groups to start negotiating. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Estonian Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U163	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Couple of references for this theme raiser. In general, we have had the administrative reform with the flag letter that if the swamps are dried, the frogs will not be asked. We are now seeing that neither are villages and communities asked. But it seems to us that this land improvement programme is generally putting wildlife at risk, in the sense that all this administrative reform has been very theoretically drawn from the beginning. It forgets one fundamental fact, what we are doing things for in this country: we are doing it for people and communities, therefore also for the villages that have created this whole problem. We have repeatedly asked both Minister Korb and the Chancellor of Justice and the Prime Minister about these matters. When answering questions on Mondays, Minister Korb has also admitted problems at some moments of weakness. Last time he cursed a bit of the legislator that he was working on legislative material and somehow this material was bad. That's one problem. At another moment of weakness a few weeks ago, he also admitted that the government coalition had no intention of making any changes to the administrative reform law. Even if the changes seem reasonable, the agreement is that the law will not be amended. I don't know what the reason is. I want to hope that the reason is not that the honourable Jüri Adams was perhaps that in June last year, when these things were discussed as a foresighted person, he felt that this administrative reform was not going to work and that improvements to the correction of errors had to be made. Is this some sort of stubbornness that the remaining parties of the government coalition were in the previous government and are now also in that we pissed off our hairs and let's not change anything, do our own wisdom? I think, however, that this is another kind of stupidity or stubbornness, in any case, it does not make sense. As regards the self-determination of villages, in fact, the change of self-governance status, if we use a more correct concept, if we start dealing with it after the administrative reform has been carried out and the 2017 local elections have been held, it will certainly be much more cumbersome than making these decisions now. We would have gladly given the government this opportunity. They're talking about opening Pandora's box, but I don't think there's such a Pandora box here. We're still talking about some kind of problem where the shoe squeezes the most. Let me give you a very personal example. I was born and raised and still live in the village of Rahula, which has historically belonged to Saue. In Soviet times, however, this village was transferred to the Saku area, it was about changing the boundaries of the farms, and so it went. I have asked myself whether it is worth pursuing historical justice here, all the more so since the Saue parish is now beginning to reach very strangely to Nissi and Märjamaa, i.e. to those areas where it has never reached, at the same time leaving out the entire regions that initially belonged to it. I have rather come to the conclusion that there is probably little point in raising this problem if the municipality of Saku, which is now part of it, does not make any extra madness towards people. This Saku is not so much further from our village. In addition, there are probably so many people who have not been born and raised there and whose historical memory is short in this sense. To them, this request might not be understandable. I'm gonna ask for more time for this 20 seconds...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U164	Please, extra time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U165	...and I'll give you a funny example of what's left of the Peaceful One across the field called Saue village. The village has been born and grown by one such publicly renowned person as the former opera singer Mati Palm. He, his family, his son, and his closest neighbors began to stand up for the name of Saue to return to the village. In the meantime, this village had been called Kanamaa and transferred to Saku parish, which was the result of the historic Saue parish house, among other things, on the territory of this village. They ran into two problems. First, in Saku parish, they were told that we could not take the name of the neighborhood as the name of our village. In Saue parish, on the contrary, it began to be said that we cannot allow the village bearing Saue's name to be located in another parish. So people are exposed to these funny mischiefs when the matter is solved only on the basis of the local governments' current interests. In the end, however, they somehow got what they wanted, I don't know exactly what those circumstances are. But historical memory, people's directions and their will are certainly things that have been damaged by this administrative reform and have often been overlooked. This modest attempt we have made here is precisely to give the government greater powers to correct these mistakes. We therefore ask for this draft to continue to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U166	Ivari Padar on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just say a few words. I began to think, listening to this debate, how much less problems would there be if the administrative reform had started to do as I thought reasonable in my day: one county is one municipality and beyond. Presumably a lot of problems would be off the table. Every concern is a problem, be it three, four, or ten, of these troubled places. When it comes to the events that took place before 15 April, it must be said that the administrative division of Estonian territory was to be in place six months before the elections. There have been solutions here in six to ten cases, I don't know exactly what to say right now. Some things remain unresolved, and they have been said in this Chamber today that there are different reasons. In some cases this has been due to the question of local culture. In some cases, I know personally how these things have been, some things don't quite know. But I have realized that even in the case of things for which I do not quite know exactly why these issues have piled up, it is indisputable that if one part of the municipality goes on the other side without obligations and obligations remain with those so-called 15% of the people who live behind the forest, this could not quite be the case. The objective of the administrative reform is to increase the capacity and capacity of municipalities. This means that they are larger, more capable, more flexible, smarter and more understanding problems on the ground. I very much hope that after 15 October, municipalities will find better and more cultural ways of solving all the individual problems that have been highlighted here today. I'm sure I'm optimistic it's gonna happen this way. But I guess we'll just have to make sure that all the circumstances are taken into account. However, it has actually been seen how much there is a desire to move in the other direction and how this desire can be taken into account from the perspective of all kinds of material solutions. I see this administrative-territorial reform as the first stage of administrative reform. I already know today that in very many places in Estonia the current solution is seen as temporary. It is very clear that, in four or eight years' time, much larger municipalities will be formed and that the problems that are up today will no longer be relevant. I believe that this administrative-territorial reform will be followed by new solutions. There is quite a lot of this to be seen when we look at what the joint local government organisations are really going to be. If, at the beginning of 2018, the joint organisations are not central to one county, but to several counties, we can imagine what the administrative territorial distribution of Estonia might be in the future. These discussions are already ongoing within the framework of the current reform. So nothing. You can't cause more confusion and panic than you do. This law, which currently exists, must meet the municipal elections. We need to carry out very difficult tasks before Midsummer, so that the administrative reform can come true. Good luck to all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U168	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Despite some kind of quasi-subsidisation by the government coalition, the commission has proposed to reject the draft 393 at first reading, leading to a vote. Before that, it sounds like a satchel. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 393 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 46 votes in favour of the commission's proposal and 15 against, with no abstentions. The draft has therefore been rejected and falls outside the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U169	The fifth item is the first reading of the draft Act 408 on the ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to invite Foreign Minister Sven Mikser to the speech chair for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu a draft act on ratification of Protocol No 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which I am pleased to present briefly. The Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms was opened for signature by the Member States of the Council of Europe on 4 November 1950 and already in 1959 the European Court of Human Rights, established on the basis of the Convention, became operational. Estonia acceded to the Convention on 16 April 1996. There are a very large number of potentially well-founded complaints in the proceedings before the Human Rights Court. This heavy burden raises concerns about the sustainability of the Convention system. As a result, the Member States of the Council of Europe decided to develop a new protocol to the Convention aimed at enhancing the interaction between the Court of Human Rights and the highest national courts and thereby better protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms in Europe. Protocol 16 complements the jurisdiction of the Court of Human Rights by empowering the Court to issue advisory opinions on the basis of a request from the Supreme Court designated by the State for the interpretation of the Convention in a specific case. Such an advisory opinion can only be sought on a specific issue arising from national court proceedings in progress. This does not allow for an abstract review of legislation. Similarly, seeking an opinion does not mean transferring the case to the Court of Human Rights, but the court asking for the opinion, the highest court in the Member State, receives instructions for the interpretation of the Convention in a particular national court proceedings. In this way, following the advisory opinion of the Human Rights Court in national court proceedings should help to reduce the number of complaints against countries to the Strasbourg Court. In Estonia, the Supreme Court would be the court asking for opinions. In order to grant this right to the Supreme Court, the procedural laws in force in Estonia are supplemented. The relevant draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws, bearing the number 404, is also on the agenda of the Riigikogu's plenary today. Asking for an advisory opinion is voluntary and it will always be decided by the Supreme Court. If the Supreme Court asks for an opinion and the human rights court takes the application into procedure, then the 17-member Grand Chamber of the Strasbourg Court gives the opinion. If the application is submitted by the Estonian Supreme Court, it is also possible for the Government of the Republic of Estonia and also for the parties to the domestic procedure to present their views in the proceedings of the Grand Chamber. A judge elected from Estonia to the Court of Human Rights will always take part in the review of the case in the Grand Chamber. The advisory opinions of the Human Rights Court are not binding, i.e. the Supreme Court decides on the impact of the advisory opinion on specific domestic court proceedings. Therefore, the parties to proceedings retain the right to appeal to the Strasbourg Court following the Supreme Court's decision. At the same time, it must be assumed that if the Supreme Court has considered it necessary to ask for an advisory opinion, it would also like to refer to this opinion in domestic proceedings. In the latter case, it should be excluded from hearing the case before the Strasbourg Court, because even if a person turns to the Court of Human Rights, such complaints should be declared inadmissible without sending them to the Government for reply. The Protocol was drawn up on 2 October 2013 in Strasbourg. The Ambassador of the Republic of Estonia to the Council of Europe signed it on 17 February 2014. As of the day before yesterday, 17 April 2017, 11 countries had signed the 16th Protocol and 7 countries had entered into force. The Protocol has not entered into force internationally. It shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of three months from the date on which the 10 Contracting Parties have acceded to the Protocol. Estonia has the opportunity to be among the ten countries after whose ratification the Protocol enters into force. Finally, the ratification law should enter into force in general terms. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U171	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. First Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U172	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I'm interested in what the court thinks. Every person should have the right to defend himself in a court of law. There's evidence in court, there's certain procedures. But now there's some sort of thing like the opinion of the court that the Supreme Court takes into account. It lowers the bar, first, and second, it makes no difference. In my opinion, it deprives people of the possibility of taking part in the trial if we are currently excluding the fact that there should even be some degree of court above the Supreme Court. Some kind of opinion puts something in place. How do you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U173	Thank you. You probably didn't listen to me very closely, and you didn't read the bill and its explanatory statement. First of all, the Supreme Court is not obliged to ask for such an opinion; it has the opportunity to ask for it. The purpose of this protocol is to potentially reduce the workload of the European Court of Human Rights. But I would also like to reiterate that the Supreme Court is not obliged to take into account this question and the opinion received, this opinion is not binding. However, assuming that the Supreme Court takes the opinion it has asked for into account in its proceedings, it must be considered quite likely that the likelihood that a person will also turn to the European Court of Human Rights will be reduced. However, asking for such an opinion and taking it into account in the proceedings of the Supreme Court does not deprive a person of the opportunity to turn to the European Court of Human Rights in the future. So there is no limit to anyone's chances and no judgment is given against anyone in the form of an 'opinion'. It is an instrument which should help to reduce the workload of that court.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U174	Good manager! Good minister! Still, why have we been jogging about this ratification for nearly four years? Turns out it's actually going to cost us 1,200 euros. Three applications must be sent to Europe, but since the interpreter of the Supreme Court cannot translate from English and French, the three answers (à ten pages) from there must be translated by buying this service from outside. Actually, it's our money together. Why, then, have we been jogging about this ratification for nearly four years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U175	Thank you. I owe you an answer that has domesticly prevented this bill from getting to this hall earlier. It would certainly have been possible, in principle, to move forward at a faster pace. However, the pace of our proceedings has in no way prevented or hindered the entry into force of the Protocol, because, as was pointed out in previous questions, the protocol has not entered into force because there are not yet ten ratifications. Moreover, three months must have passed since the tenth ratification. So we have not moved too quickly, not at a very hasty pace of procedure, but at the same time our speed has not prevented the entry into force of this protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U176	Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. By adopting the Act on ratification of the Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, Estonia should support the European Court of Human Rights to be sustainable and to reduce the number of appeals. However, the draft confirms that this opinion is consultative and does not have to be taken into account. Please explain this mechanism how it will, in this case, still reduce appeals to the European Court of Human Rights, and not just in the case of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U178	Thank you. This mechanism is very simple. If the Supreme Court considers it necessary to seek an opinion, it can be assumed that it often takes that into account. In those cases where the Supreme Court has sought and taken into account the opinion obtained from the European Court of Human Rights, the likelihood that a person will proceed to the European Court of Human Rights is significantly reduced, insofar as the possibility that the European Court of Human Rights will issue a judgment contrary to the opinion issued by the Court of Human Rights is not very significant.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U179	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In your previous answer to Mr Helme's question, you concluded by saying that you do not think that the violation of sovereignty is significant, much less excessive. Please define your understanding of the significant or excessive breach of sovereignty in the context of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U181	Thank you. I come back to my earlier answer. Sovereignty in itself means the highest decision-making power. In general, Estonia has the highest decision-making power within the state. At the same time, when we join the international agreements on certain issues, we give up this decision-making power or we will be one of the co-decidors on matters which concern us in the future, together with other members of the international community. So sovereignty is certainly not absolute and it is certainly not absolute either at the level of the state power of the Republic of Estonia. I would not like to descend into some personal scholastic interpretation of the degree of sovereignty in the context of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. However, as to whether to ratify this Protocol No 16, which creates an opportunity for the Estonian Supreme Court to seek the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights, I do not wish or be able to see a significant breach of sovereignty here, which should result in failure to accede to this Protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U182	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The possibilities of our Supreme Court should expand and the burden on the European Court of Human Rights should decrease. Can it not be that the workload of the Supreme Court is increasing and maybe more labour is needed there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U184	I think that the workload of the Supreme Court will not increase, but the Supreme Court will have the opportunity to temporarily interrupt the proceedings by the time it takes for the European Court of Human Rights to give an opinion. This may be the case in certain cases, if this opinion is requested, the proceedings of the Supreme Court will be prolonged, but this should not result in a significant additional workload.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U185	Jaak Madison, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! In answering my question, you said very nicely that by joining international agreements or ratifying new conventions, we will inevitably surrender some sort of sovereignty or decision-making power to another institution. That's my question. With the draft law on ratification of Protocol No 16, we are, to some extent, a matter of interpretation, of how much this rate is, however, in principle, giving up our powers of decision. But what is the purpose of this thing? What will become better now as regards the protection of human rights? What will improve from the point of view of Estonian citizens? What is the reason, or what is the objective that we want to achieve if we join an international treaty and give up our sovereignty to some extent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U187	Thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 408. The proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft at first reading has also been received. I am voting on the draft proposal of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to reject 408 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was voted in favour of 7 and against by 41 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and draft 408 first reading is closed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 4 May at 4 a.m. of draft 408 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U188	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U189	Good manager! Good minister! It has been said here that once ten countries have ratified this protocol, three months later it will come into force. In fact, for nearly four years, it has been followed up and three out of ten countries are missing. Estonia is trying to be one of the three remaining ones so far missing. Is there someone on the outside pushing us to be one of those three? Secondly, who are the other two who have to help bring together the ten countries that ratify this protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U190	Thank you. No, no one's putting pressure on us. The Estonian parliament is as free as any other law of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with this ratification law. As of a few days ago, Albania, Armenia, Finland, Georgia, Lithuania, San Marino and Slovenia had ratified the protocol. Parliament is currently in the process of ratification in Italy, the Netherlands or the Netherlands and Norway. The protocol is signed by France, Romania and Slovakia, which have announced that before it is enforced they will have to amend their national laws. In addition, the Protocol has been signed by Greece, Moldova, Turkey and Ukraine. So all in all, there are considerably more than ten countries that have already ratified or signed this protocol, in some cases launching the ratification process in Parliament. I didn't count them on my fingers. So there are no two countries in particular that should do so besides Estonia. However, the fact that such agreements or conventions have a certain threshold, procedure and date of entry into force is a normal practice. The exact entry into force of one or the other protocol or international agreement is normally described in the implementing provisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U191	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U192	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Courts make decisions, courts don't think. If it is now on the agenda that the Court will be asked for its opinion, then it basically means putting pressure on our judicial system from outside Estonia with the opinion given by someone. This is a clear path towards restricting sovereignty and influencing our own legal system, not through the laws we have adopted. My question is very simple: does our Supreme Court, Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of Justice regard this as even compatible with our constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U193	Thank you. It is certainly possible for Parliament to ask for these assessments in this procedure if it so wishes. I believe that my opinion and your opinion on the extent to which joining international agreements, treaties and conventions limits Estonia's sovereignty is likely to be different. However, it is clear that, as a member of the international community, we will certainly give up certain decision-making powers when joining international agreements in some cases. In the case of ratification of the protocol to this convention, the right to make a decision in court proceedings remains with the Estonian Supreme Court. It should probably be mentioned again that the person who wishes to do so will also be able to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights after the Supreme Court's judgment. This right will not be withdrawn either. So this opinion does not replace a decision or judgment. The possibility of asking for an opinion is provided for to ensure the sustainability of the European Court of Human Rights and its ability to cope with its workload.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U194	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U195	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm sure you know that I am not the biggest fan of the Estonian judicial system. I don't think it's completely transparent and fair, and that's all. But on the other hand, I'm a big fan of sovereignty. Paragraphs 148 and 149 of the Estonian Constitution list three court grades and say that the Supreme Court is the supreme court. It is not just this protocol, of course, but all the movement that we have had, and which you have just said yourself, that we are also giving up sovereignty in court cases. You still didn't answer Mart Helme's question about how big our constitution is. We have no control over the courts, no control over the way in which they exercise justice, no control over the way in which judges are appointed. It's a surrender of sovereignty. How problematic do you think it is? I would also correct you: I have read both the draft itself and its explanatory statement. That's why I'm asking these questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U196	Thank you for that explanation. That's very nice to know. When it comes to court, there's no need to be a court fan. However, in a democratic country, the principle of separation and balance of powers must be respected and the principle of court respected instead of fanning it. However, I would like to point out that we are currently dealing with the draft act on ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We joined the convention more than 20 years ago. The European Court of Human Rights has also taken decisions against the Estonian state, which we have been fulfilling over many years. By ratifying this protocol, we are creating an additional possibility of making the work of the European Court of Human Rights faster, rather than faster, insofar as we want to reduce the excessive workload of this court. Although there is a possibility that the pace of work of the Supreme Court is somewhat hampered by this possibility of asking for opinion, once again, if a person wants to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights, it should be quicker to arrive at this resolution. In conclusion, I believe that this law of ratification, and therefore, hopefully, Protocol 16 to the Convention, which will enter into force in the near future, will improve the access of persons to fair trial. With regard to the possible or excessive assignment of sovereignty, as has been said, we probably have different opinions. Of course, by joining international agreements and by giving certain decision-making powers to supranational institutions on certain issues, we are really handing over sovereignty. At this point in time, this endowment of sovereignty is certainly not significant, even though it is not excessive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U197	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U198	Thank you. As I said, in general, with international agreements of a binding nature, we will certainly give up a certain part of our decision-making powers and, therefore, our sovereignty. Accession to this Protocol gives the Supreme Court the opportunity to ask for an opinion that is not binding on it. In that sense, this surrender of your feared sovereignty will not take place. What's the purpose? The aim is for the European Court of Human Rights to be able to deal with complaints submitted to it. As the number of complaints is significant and has increased, in order to ensure that access to this judicial procedure does not deteriorate, a mechanism has been set up which hopefully can reduce the number of complaints. Whether and to what extent this works in practice will, of course, be clear when this possibility comes true, when this protocol enters into force and such opinions are asked and received. At the moment, it is not entirely predictable to what extent the highest national courts will turn to the European Court of Human Rights for such opinions and to what extent they will take their views into account in their proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U199	Urve Tiidus, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Let me ask you one more time for clarification. The purpose of this case is to reduce appeals to the European Court of Human Rights. The estimated cost of implementing the Act is that the Supreme Court submits about three applications per year. How much of Estonia is now being referred to the European Court of Human Rights and how much does the Estonian side reduce the burden on the European Court of Human Rights and increase its sustainability? Is it mathematically possible to present it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U201	Thank you. I do not currently have such numerical estimates at my disposal, but I can certainly ask whether these estimates of a decrease in the number of possible referrals exist. If they exist, I can transmit them to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U202	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U203	Thank you. It's pretty funny hearing your answers, Minister. Once you say that there is no significant loss of sovereignty, which means that there is still a loss, you claim again that it is not there. You could come to an agreement with yourself on this matter. Asking for an opinion is voluntary for the Supreme Court and taking into account it is voluntary, including the fact that we are adopting this law in the Riigikogu is voluntary. Just as voluntarily, it is possible to decide whether or not a person is considering a case specifically. There is no legal force in this opinion. We may think that these people are still going to the Human Rights Court. Why are we doing this circus? If it's a volunteer, let's call it off and keep things going.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U204	Thank you. The fact that you are concerned about the Estonian state and its sovereignty is certainly commendable. But fear has big eyes. Because of the possible ratification of Protocol 16, I dare dispel your fear of the loss of sovereignty. The issue of sovereignty is certainly relevant to the whole convention to which Estonia joined as early as 1996. But the existence of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the functioning of the European Court of Human Rights on this basis is certainly one good and right thing that, without touching the sovereignty of Estonia, has certainly guaranteed access to fair trial and justice for many people who have needed it. As far as the binding nature of the opinion for the Estonian state is concerned, as has been said, this opinion is not binding and, even if the Supreme Court takes account of it in certain cases, it certainly takes account of that opinion in its proceedings, it does not deprive the person of the right to apply to the European Court of Human Rights. The extent to which people will continue to exercise this right in such cases as you described, and which I also described, can be predicted. It's definitely not 0 and it's definitely not 100, but it's somewhere between these two. However, in order to have the opportunity to reduce the workload of the European Court of Human Rights in dealing with complaints which are currently tending to grow over the head, such a mechanism will be put into effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U205	Thank you. No further questions. I request Liisa Oviir, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U206	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of the draft procedure in the lead committee before the first reading. The draft was discussed in the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee on 10 April. a. Members of the committee Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the debate. The committee was chaired by Jaanus Karilaid. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Maris Kuurberg, Minister of Foreign Affairs and representative of the Government of the European Court of Human Rights, were invited to the debate. We discussed draft Act 408 on ratification of Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu gave an overview of the draft law on ratification and Protocol 16 to the Convention, and we also listened to Maris Kuurberg. The review said that the draft will ratify the protocol and declare that Estonia will be the highest court that will be entitled to seek advisory opinions from the European Court of Human Rights, the Supreme Court, on the basis of the protocol. Maris Kuurberg said that, based on a prior discussion, it is probably important that this draft has been examined and granted support for the adoption of the law by the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. The Commission unanimously decided that this topic should be placed on the plenary agenda on 19 April. We decided to make proposals to conclude the first reading and to set the deadline for the submission of amendments on 4 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U207	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's sixth item is the first reading of the draft law implementing the Law of Property Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the law amending other laws (amending the fee for the maintenance of the technology network). I would like to ask Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, for a chair as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U208	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative of the people! The purpose of this bill is to provide clarity and a constitutional code of conduct in one area where there has been a serious threat so far. This concerns the issue of toleration fees for the utility network. This issue has been dealt with on several occasions by the Supreme Court, which in 2004 and 2012 declared the procedure for determining the fee for the maintenance of the technical network laid down by law to be unconstitutional. By the last judgment, the Supreme Court created a new legal situation without giving itself a clear answer to the question of the principles on which remuneration should be paid in the future. The vast majority of network owners in this situation continued to pay the farm premium in its former size, i.e. using the unconstitutional and repealed coefficients. In 2015, the Supreme Court issued a judgment explaining which principle should be applied in the new legal situation where the rules of the law have been abolished. From this point of view, we can also draw conclusions through the higher constitutional procedure as to how the Supreme Court envisages it constitutionally. The purpose of this draft is to ensure that the Constitution is implemented in this long dispute (i.e. that of § 32 of the Constitution, i.e. the protection of private property of a person), to provide for clear rules and make this system of rules so that it is as understandable and easily applicable to both those who are landowners and those who...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U209	I apologize to the waitress, but the sound of the background here has long crossed reasonable limits. If you want to have a conversation, please do so outside the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U210	Thank you, Mr President. The draft provides for a procedure whereby the landowner can apply to the owner of the utility network for a tolerance fee of a maximum of 7,5% of the tax price of the protection zone multiplied by the coefficient of the substantive extent of the reduction. The weighting shall be calculated as either 0.5 or 1. If the coefficient is 0, the farm premium is not paid. The assumption is that the route or utility network on the property will not prevent the use of the property for its intended purpose. If the coefficient is 0,5, i.e. the ad hoc use of the immovable property is partially prevented, the fee shall be 3,75% of the price for taxing the land in the territory which the line passes through and in which it is situated in the restricted zone. If the coefficient is 1, it is absolutely impossible to use the property to the desired extent and the amount of the fee is 7,5% of the tax price of the land. It is assumed that where residential and commercial land is a technical network necessary for a particular property, such as electricity, water and communications intended for the use of that immovable property, no remuneration shall be charged for it. I think it is justified by this logic that they are necessary for the functioning of the immovable property itself. There is also a rule that complies with the general tax principle and concerns the taxation of these charges: the farm tax is exempt by a third and taxed by two thirds. The tax is divided into two parts. One part is the substantive compensation for the land tax. The second tranche is twice as high and is taxed, it is a prescribed compensation or compensation for any loss of revenue resulting from this burden. If currently the owner of the immovable property is paid cents, and this is not a figurative expression, but the situation is literally such, then the bill will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the rates. Let me give you an example: in the case of forest land, it should grow 75 times compared to the legislation in force in 2012. As I emphasised, the problems of technology networks are not a specific area of the Ministry of Justice, but an area of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Ministry of Justice initiated this draft on the basis of a constitutional set of rules on compensation for private property. We have also said that the payment for tolerance actually comes from consumers. The state will not pay anything separately here, it will be paid by consumers, and this amount will go into the service fee for specific utility networks. It is such a matter of finding a social balance. The Ministry of Justice set out to propose one model in absolute terms. These figures can be derived on the basis of the tax price of a particular parcel. We have proposed a model and those percentages that we think are a reasonable limit. But, as I said in the Commission, this could be the point of discussion on exactly what these figures could be. We understand that the track owners, these entrepreneurs, are, of course, interested in the lowest possible fees and the low burden of dealing with this matter. Understandably, landowners are again interested in the highest possible remuneration. The legislator must be the sovereign judge who tells us where this reasonable balance point is. We consider it important that the system is simple and that we do not impose too much bureaucratic burdens with further disputes. The general logic is that if an application for a farm fee has been submitted in one year and this fee has already been fixed on one occasion, the landowner does not have to submit that application again. In the coming years, it is expected that, if any circumstances have not changed, these things will continue to function exactly as they were put in place in the first year. That is briefly the point of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U211	Thank you. There are questions, though. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U212	Thank you. Honourable waitress! There's still a question, I guess. I read in the explanatory memorandum that this draft solves the most acute problems of the cost of supporting the utility network. I conclude from this that the initiator of the bill leaves the non-acute problems unsolved. How about this? At all, is this 7.5% sufficient, and why has this problem not been solved before?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U213	Thank you. Why has this problem not been solved before? There's a strong lobby, let's say, these line owners, the entrepreneurs. In the past, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also dealt with this issue, which has, over the years, carried out the ownership rights of companies in these countries. Certainly, these large, influential organisations have not been interested in developing the new regime in this way. That is a brief and frank answer. The second question, is that enough? This leads us to the question of whether the tax price of the land is rational. It's been like this since 2001. But I think the system should be simple. If you start measuring each immovable property separately and mapping these tens and tens of thousands of immovables, it could get crazy. This is obviously an overcompensating task. It would be impractical to do so on a case-by-case basis and to base this model on it. We used the tax price principle as a basis. If the maximum rate is 7,5% of the tax price or value of the land, I think it is actually quite normal. Whether the tax price of the land is relevant is, in fact, an issue that could be discussed. The question of the tax price of the land is not regulated by this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U214	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U215	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I would like to receive your comment on the proposal of the private forest association, which you have not taken into account. The private forest federation has said that if the value of forest land were to correspond to reality, instead of 5%, it would have to take into account 60% of the tax price. You have tried to claim that you follow the minimum proposals of the Supreme Court in your proposal. Why are you following these minimum proposals, why are you not in sync with reality?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U216	Thank you. The drafts are also subject to a coordination round. As I said, the positions of stakeholders are contradictory here, there is no point in denying that. That was the result that finally hatched out. What I'm saying is that the figures we've proposed are not exact science. When the draft and the development plan were prepared, it was also discussed whether to base the target use and use different rates. This was abandoned on the grounds that, if more differences were introduced, the system would become too complex. If, during the legislative procedure, the legislator considers that an exception could be made to a certain area, for example when we are talking about a growing forest, we will shape our position on a specific proposal in the course of the procedure. When it comes to the treatment of private forest owners, one thing is the tax price of the land, but at the time of the earlier draft procedure, they considered that the question was that the tax price of the land should not be taken as a basis but as a basis for the value of the forest, it should be calculated and the amount of the remuneration should be derived from it. We tried to find a simple solution. Should any numbers be increased or not? Once again, I trust the Committee on Legal Affairs here, who will certainly listen to all the stakeholders. We are not stuck in the absolutes or saying that this 7.5% and this triple distribution based on this logic, which is equally valid for all, would be a mathematically protective truth. Some numbers had to be proposed, and we were trying to find the system. When increasing all these amounts, it must be taken into account that they are paid by consumers. We need to find a balance point if we are to act wisely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U217	Andres Herkel, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, thank you for your frank answer, as you said, to my first question. But this raised the second question: how has this strong interest group, as you mentioned, carried out its interests in the Republic of Estonia in such a way that such a restriction of ownership or, in essence, a situation which is not in accordance with the Constitution, has lasted for so long? As Minister of Justice, you should answer how interest groups can act in this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U219	I would remind you that the first time the Supreme Court annulled the current regulation (it was in 2004), the Supreme Court obliged the legislator to create a new regulation. How can interest groups turn off the work of the legislator so that this regulation has not been established over the years? I don't think there was anything malicious about it, I'm a long way from saying there's something corrupt or something. But then, after all, these interest groups put forward their arguments in an effective way, I think that they were focusing precisely on the prices of this service, which has not resulted in this regulation being created by Parliament. When I started to deal with this, it was my understanding that, although the anti-constitutional situation has been going on for so long, it cannot serve as a basis for an argument that such a situation would be a new normality. No, it's not. We've got to figure this out and sort this shit out. I've proposed this model. It took us a year or a half to prepare it, I won't deny it. There were a huge number of nuances and fewer or more benevolent problems, many individual issues had to be resolved. Now this draft is before you, and I hope that in the coming months we will be able to process it properly, make the necessary amendments and enforce the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U220	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U221	Mr. Minister! Is this account written by the people of your ministry? There is no mention of the author here. I have to admit, it's quite unintelligently written. To understand this, you must probably read long legal texts. I failed to obtain the answer, which is § 1582 of the Law of Property Act, which is annulled. So what's canceled? I'm allergic to these paragraphs. Secondly, the amendment of the General Part of the Civil Code Act, § 5, where something is abolished again. There is no understanding of what is being abolished here, and another new paragraph is being added, which is quite helplessly worded. This might suggest, for example, high-voltage power stations. If that's the way it is, you could say it. Why don't you explain what you're talking about in these two places?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U222	The author of the explanatory memorandum is Vaike Murumets, a long-term employee of the Ministry. I do not rule out that he worked in the ministry even when my senior colleague worked there. Actually, she's a pretty good woman. With this issue, as I said, the Ministry of Justice is concerned because it is a matter of constitutionality and property law. This maze of topics and problems is very specific. I will not deny that our ministry's inheritance is not dealing with these routes and lines, with hot water pipes running, cold water pipes where gas pipes and electric wires. Mrs. Murumets brought herself up to speed on this and developed this model. I think he did it pretty well. It is a question of the wording of the legislation. I actually agree with you here, especially by looking at these laws on law change. Last week, I looked at the law on the abolition of county governments: you're picking up, but you really don't understand anything, so what's going to happen? One word is taken out, the other word is taken out, one word is replaced, the other word is replaced. There is Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the basis of which the Government will also submit drafts. How can we make this text more useful to the herbreader? There is a discussion about how to do this, whether there could be some grey text written between it or whether it could use today's IT opportunities. I think it's worth considering how to solve this problem. I have to answer this on the way, and you, as an older colleague, used to trap me. I can't explain these scissors. I'm not gonna fiddle around here and tell you what's going to change exactly. There is no doubt that if there is a good will to compare texts, the comparison of texts will provide clarity, but there is a real risk of buying from a pig in a bag in the case of superficial processing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U223	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U224	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I really don't want to buy a pig in a bag. I therefore ask again what I touched on in the Commission. I understand that this law does not have a major impact on the state budget. But is it your assumption that technical networks are governed by public law or by private law, and therefore you have not assessed their actual budgetary impact in the explanatory memorandum? Why haven't you done that? I think it would be reasonable for the draft to also reflect the consequences that the affected parties will have.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U225	There is also an appendix to the explanatory memorandum. I hope that it will also be available to Parliament, the explanatory memorandum should be 39 pages long. Here is the first mention of how many routes there are. Here, in order to facilitate Members' understanding of what is actually going to happen, some extreme examples are given (high-voltage lines at the end of the lake and there may be very high charges in the future), but there are also ordinary cases to show how this model will work. What could this lead to for these businesses or how much should they pay? We have identified the order of magnitude that we are forecasting for the various routes. This depends on whether or not to use 100% or partially. It must be honest to say that, in fact, very many people have not applied for this price of a few cents; they have realised that this is one joke and is not serious; they have not started to rebel with it. We expect that if the fee increases, it will be applied for more. We estimate that for the transmission system of electricity, the possible total amount of the farm charge could be around 1.2 million, for the electricity distribution system half a million, and for the natural gas distribution system this amount would be lower. We do not deny that this information has been obtained from the network operators themselves, on the basis of which this forecast has been put together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U226	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U227	Good manager! Good minister! Ma'am, what's his name, he's been working hard. But if there are a lot of people whose country is going through a route, and they are now getting lousy cents for it, say now in clear Estonian how much more they will be able to get paid for it in the future. Make it so-called wood and red.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U228	As I said, the amendment provides for a maximum of 7,5% of the tax price of the land. A territory with a limitation zone for the payment of the farm premium has been kept in mind. Take, for example, the cadastral unit of Hirmo-Vidrik, which is located in Vastseliina rural municipality in Võru county. Under the previous scheme, 0,1% of the tax price of the land was taken as a basis, but 7,5% will be taken as a basis in the future. So there's a 75-fold increase compared to the current situation. If the protection zone is 6000 square metres, the new fee is EUR 12. Let me give you a drastic example that I referred to earlier. The 14b cadastral unit of Järveotsa tee, 8,000 square meters. The country is, of course, more expensive in Tallinn; it is a social land. Previously, 0.25% of the land's tax price was to be paid for this social land, now 7.5%, again a 30-fold increase. The fee should therefore be EUR 3475 per year. Well, that depends on the circumstances. I wanted to stress once again that what seems to be a fair number here is the place of parliamentary discussion. I am absolutely certain that Parliament will show common sense by considering the constitutional rights of the whole consumer community and, without doubt, of bona fide private owners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U229	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U230	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'm reading the bill. On page 3, at the very beginning, where § 461 is supplemented by paragraph 21, such terms as I ask you to explain, these are'sundle' and'sundle'. What do they mean by saying in simple and clear Estonian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U231	Thank you. We are talking about the enforcement fee in a situation where there are really restrictions that can be imposed by a court of law on a certain unit of land. In the present case, the coercion means that the property will remain on the property of the current owner, but if there is a pipeline or there is a wire on the ground or there is a wire on the ground, it will be specifically determined that there is an obligation to tolerate it and that it will be remunerated in the same way as that provided for in the case of expropriation. What do I mean? We have two situations. One situation is perfectly understandable. In general, in 99% of cases, we have Russian-era, old-fashioned routes. It's a historical relationship that exists in reality, i.e. there's no way of telling if the owner wants it to be there or not. It's just so turned out, he owns the property, and there's that line on it. This section speaks of a situation where there is a new route that was never before, but it is necessary in the public interest, it is an electric line or some other route. Of course, the rights of new owners of immovable property will be protected more strongly. The general rule is when we talk, for example, about the coercive property that is being imposed, that is then taken as a basis, just as in the case of ordinary expropriation, that value that would be on this property without this route. I mean, obviously, the market value of some land under the power line is essentially zero, because nothing can be done there and it has more so-called psychological value. In the case of expropriation, it is said that the market value must be compensated. The imposition of an obligation, when this route is installed there, is based on the fact that the value of the immovable property without that line must be paid up. It is clear that the route will completely drain the value of this immovable property, and it is fair that the network operator will effectively pay the value of that immovable property by way of a compulsory charge. That's the idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U232	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U233	Good manager! Good waitress! The principle of equal treatment is enshrined in § 12 of the Constitution. In the village of Halla in Vastseliina rural municipality, the protection zone for the overhead power line is 6,000 square metres, the fee is 12 euros, while when there are conservation restrictions, it is possible to obtain 110 euros in the forest of the second bond class. Consequently, according to the principle of equal treatment, the property in the village of Halla in Vastseliina rural municipality, from which the overhead line passes, should receive compensation of more than EUR 60. Where is this equal treatment in accordance with Article 12 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U234	I think that, in the case of the various restrictions, also given when and the values that these restrictions are designed to protect, it must be generally acknowledged that the conservation restriction does not run in any very specific way. It actually turns off the entire property from civil circulation when we are talking about nature conservation, if this is not a border case. After all, this border marking in nature reserves usually runs along the borders of immovable property. I don't think it's necessary to be one-to-one, so it doesn't matter if there's a line or if there's a reservation. In your example, it was ten times as much. We have tried to create this 'engine' for Parliament, to show what these rates are. No doubt, the higher the remuneration, the more it is sought. It's obvious, and there's nothing bad or unnatural about it. We can multiply these rates by 10. It must be borne in mind that this model is not based on nominal amounts, but on the principle that it is based here on some percentage of the tax price of the land. In your example, this would mean that if we wanted to achieve 10 times the price for this Vastseliina plot, we would have to pay 75% of the tax price for the land each year. At least in theory, according to the logic of the Land Valuation Act, the value of the land is 100%. If we say that we compensate 75% of the value of the land every year, is that justified in theory? Since the tax price of the land is currently very low, we can discuss that EUR 10 is not a sufficient amount, but I think that the theoretical logic of this model must also be looked at. There is no doubt that it is possible to set some threshold for absolute numbers, below which this fee should not be for certain area units if the land tax regime is the same as it is today. It is also possible to multiply the absolute percentage, but I will say once again that these figures cannot become too large on the basis of this model, because then, in my opinion, the theoretical operation of this model becomes questionable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U235	Thank you. No further questions for you. The identity of the Commission rapporteur has changed. Jaanus Karilaid, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, is holding the report of the committee instead of Valdo Randpere. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U236	Ladies and gentlemen, A meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs was held on 10 April to deal with this draft. The Commission had a complete quorum, there was only one member of the Commission. Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Vaike Murumets, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, were also invited to attend, who, as we understand, is also one of the authors of this draft. The draft solves the problems of the toleration fee for the utility network by providing for clear coefficients for the calculation of the tolerance fee and the payment of a higher tolerance fee for landowners who are most heavily burdened. Today on the platform, Minister for Justice Reinsalu spoke even more closely than in the Commission, so I will not repeat the main objectives of the draft. The Commission took procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 19 April (consensually), to propose that the first reading be closed (also consensually) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 May 2017 at 4 p.m. (also consensually). So much for the reply that the centre of gravity of this draft is not yet ahead of us, because the involvement of stakeholders is still ahead. The Estonian Private Forest Federation, the Estonian Owners' Association, the Estonian Owners' Confederation, etc., say their words. That is the way this Commission meeting, where this draft will be dealt with in greater detail, is still ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U237	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U238	Mr President of the Commission. I am going to ask you the same question I asked the Minister of Justice who could not answer. I have also been chairman of the committee, I was chairman when both the law of property and the law of the general part of the civil code were dealt with. But I don't have that kind of memory to remember by the section numbers, which is the content of one or the other section. Perhaps you can tell us what is the content of the section of the Law of Property Act to be deleted from the law and what is the content of the section of the General Part of the Civil Code Act to be deleted from the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U239	The completely honest answer is that it is my job here to report what took place during the Commission's debate. It wasn't discussed there, so I don't know how to answer you today. However, we can address this issue in the Commission and give you a more precise answer at second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U240	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the groups want to negotiate? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 405. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 4 May at 16 a.m. for the submission of draft 405 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U241	The seventh and last item on the agenda is the first reading of draft 404 of the Act amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic (Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a procedure for the European Account Preservation Order to facilitate the cross-border recovery of debts in civil and commercial matters, the implementation and the establishment of a procedure under Protocol 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms). I ask for a presentation of the Chair of Justice by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U242	Thank you. George, I looked at the explanatory statement. There was a separate paragraph for § 1582. What was the point? The legal obligation to tolerate is introduced into the law implementing the Law of Property Act instead of the Law of Property Act. I admit that the sentence was long and confusing, it was a saying, but there was also that answer in the text. It was just a line, I'm sorry. Draft 404 concerns a number of legal problems. Parliament today worked on one topic through a presentation by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, discussing Protocol 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Rights. If the legislator decides to approve the ratification of this Additional Protocol law, I think it is important that, if we have procedures, there must also be a rule as to how this is happening. It is therefore important that if the Estonian Parliament approves this protocol and we agree that our highest court can begin to ask the European Court of Human Rights for its opinion, there must also be rules on how this is happening. This bill provides the basis for the Supreme Court to apply to the European Court of Human Rights in civil proceedings, administrative court proceedings, criminal proceedings or constitutional review proceedings, in order to obtain an opinion that is not binding on the Supreme Court, as stated by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. There will, of course, be no surrender of sovereignty here. On the contrary, our court can exercise its rights more widely in the administration of justice, but still on the basis of a set of rules such as those proposed by the legislator, should the legislator both approve the accession of the Convention to the Additional Protocol and establish its procedures. The second round sets out a question concerning the assumptions of the urgent procedure for the order for payment. The order for payment is a relatively automated efficient procedure aimed at ensuring legitimate civil turnover. The urgency procedure under this draft would not apply if the APR agreed with the consumer exceeded the APR laid down in the Law of Obligations Act. The urgent procedure for the order for payment shall also not apply where the rate of default agreed with the consumer exceeds three times the rate of default provided for in the Law of Obligations Act. In other words, in order to curb usury, the legislator has provided for certain limits, more than which it is essentially not legitimate to charge people for a practice-use credit. A paradoxical situation has now arisen. If the money is still taken over at the rate, the current law automatically provides for an urgent procedure. Then the person from whom the money was taken must go to court and seek the money back. It doesn't make any sense! Such, already illegal requirements should not be dealt with by an accelerated procedure, which is an automatic procedure. Such a simple change. The third amendment to this draft provides for the establishment of a regulation establishing the European Parliament and Council procedure for the European Account Preservation Order to facilitate cross-border debt recovery in civil and commercial matters. This regulation is directly applicable. In practice, it has already entered into force and will apply in the European Union from 18 January 2017. For the sake of the integrity of our legal order, we considered it reasonable to describe in national procedures the mechanism for the functioning of the European Regulation in order to ensure better legal certainty. People are reading the law, and they understand what this time really looks like. This time, of course, is in the interests of honest Estonian people who have debtors somewhere across the border. People are moving across borders, unfortunately debtors are also doing so, and now it is important that the debt money is not lost. Under this Regulation, the debtor's bank account can be blocked. It's only about money. It's an additional security deposit. This regulation is issued in national proceedings so that a person should not go to the Portuguese or Polish courts and search for a debtor there, but it will take place in Estonian procedures and according to legal aid procedures, this will go on either to Poland or to Portugal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U243	You have questions. First Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U244	Good manager! Good minister! The Minister of Foreign Affairs is out of here, you're still here as Minister of Justice, but tonight's star is actually Protocol 16. At first, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that this ratification does not bring much, only EUR 1200 must be found. But now I read here that, after Protocol No 16, eight laws must be amended: the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Constitutional Supervision of Judicial Procedure, the Civil Procedure... I'm not going to read everybody. Is it a conscious choice that, at the same time as the ratification of this single protocol, which was supposed to be empty-blank, must, as it turns out, begin to amend at least eight laws? What is behind all this, the same threat that colleagues spoke about the conservative party of the people? Maybe it's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U245	Thank you. No, in the category of sovereignty, there is no question here. Sovereignty in the category of international law is still the supreme power of the state itself over the setting of its own affairs. We could talk about the chaos of sovereignty if it were like a one-way road, so that we could have a set of rules without our involvement, and we would not be able to withdraw from it under any hypothetical circumstances. It may seem incredible that such a thing could occur, but hypothetically, it is possible. For example, the current Prime Minister of Britain, when he was Minister for the Interior, really had a debate that Britain should leave the scope of the Human Rights Convention. A very serious and solid legal and political debate was held in Britain. It is also possible for Estonia, if it does not wish the Convention on Human Rights to apply to us, to make decisions in this regard. The sovereign is still an Estonian state in Estonia, and membership of the UN is not an obligation. The UN is not a prison of nations. But when it comes to why we are amending these laws, I think it is a matter of principle. The court enforces the law, the court enforces the law on the basis of the law. The law must contain rules on how it actually understands or exercises the law. Here the question was whether this opinion in itself was something unique. No, it's not. For example, the Estonian Constitutional Review Court Procedure Act also states that the Riigikogu can ask the Supreme Court for a position on the realization of membership of the European Union when adopting a law. Before joining the euro, the question was whether we had to change the constitution of the Estonian state or whether it was possible to solve this problem with a certain interpretation. To this end, we set up arrangements to ask for the position of the Supreme Court, although there is no case or case. In order to create legal certainty, this position was asked. Parliament asked for this in its own time and received the answer so that the Constitution should not be amended. I think that these opinions or positions, although not binding, create legal certainty, rather than reducing it, be it individual or public authority. So I am of the opinion that the realization of judicial power is a very serious matter. The rules must be laid down by law. The same controversy has arisen over the so-called protection of individual fundamental rights when there are no other courts in Estonia. This academic debate is also relevant to this issue. If there is a court that the court itself has said in its case law, do we need to have a rule on this? I believe it has to. What's the rule, it's a question of its own. But I think that the movement in this direction protects the separation of powers and legal clarity. These things do not happen in any way outside the rules of procedure, but all parties to the proceedings know how these things happen or may happen if the court wishes to take this privilege.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U246	Peter Ernits, second question. I ask you to remain within the framework of the one-minute period for questioning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U247	Good manager! Good minister! In fact, on page 16, it is stated that the Supreme Court does not refer the case to the European Court of Human Rights, but the European Court of Human Rights gives direction to the Supreme Court on a matter of principle. What does that mean? In my opinion, this basically means that the master says how the local supreme court should function or act, he gives basic guidance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U248	I don't know where this word "guide" has come from, either French or English. In the text of the law, we talk about the opinion. The opinion is an understanding of these matters, as is the view of the person who draws up the opinion on behalf of the court before the European Court of Human Rights. That opinion can't be some kind of clue. It must be interpreted as referring to opinion rather than to advice. The European Court of Human Rights, of course, harmonises national case law on how to protect human rights in the application of the Convention, but it does so through its own decisions, which are mandatory for states or have to pay compensation, as provided for by this procedure. The word 'guide' must be interpreted as an opinion. This opinion is not binding and should create additional legal certainty and not reduce legal certainty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U249	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U250	Good waitress! I have not been following this discussion very closely, but since it is a problem in the parliamentary verbatim that students read them, I think that if the verbatim has gone into error, I will have to correct it. This mistake is fundamental. The Minister of Justice said that sovereignty in Estonia belongs to the state; Estonia is sovereign. This is what I never want to hear from a student, because I believe that there is a sovereign nation in Estonia. There's a fundamental difference. You're the one who thinks the country does what the country wants. I believe that the state must do what the people want. The people are sovereign. The strangest thing is, theoretically, I'm right and you're wrong. Are you okay with this? Secondly, I will make this correction to make sure that, for God's sake, no inexperienced student would come to me on the exam to tell that story, and he wouldn't be guilty because he's been listening to you. That's it. What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U251	Take your finger, Igor! The question is that we speak differently from sovereignty. You yourself were at the creation of these documents in the 1980s when it was euphemism instead of independence. In fact, on the basis of certain documents moving by slices in this Chamber, the concept of sovereignty was sought. We still need to understand sovereignty as a political term and separate it from the category of international law. In the category of international law, of course, we are not talking about the sovereignty of nations or ethnos, no matter how we understand it, but we are actually talking about countries as sovereign units. Since the peace of Augsburg, these concepts were introduced in those times. All countries, whatever their size, are equal sovereign units in international affairs. They have sovereignty over their own affairs and choices. We have to admit that the international relations regime has not changed here for over three centuries, and I do not think that there is a need to change. I believe that this basis should remain valid. So I guess I'll pass your exam, Igor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U252	Igor Gräzin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U253	You know what the bull situation is now? The definition of the Declaration of Sovereignty is written by me. I'm not interested to hear you say what I was thinking. But, well, let's keep going. With Augsburg, we went a little wrong, actually we should talk about Jean Bodin. We're talking about an era of 50 to 60 years before d'Artagnan. By sovereign, then, the king was meant, and that was a completely different matter. Of course, in international law, the people are important. Augsburg Augsburg. The Palestine Liberation Organisation, right? There's still a nation there. There are two conditions: power over territory and international recognition. So how can I not, who still owns the greatest power in Estonia? By the way, Bodin was in Paris City Hall, he was a city councilman, so, actually, from municipal law, this thing grew out. But that's it. Still, the question is: do you agree with me that in the final stage there is a sovereign nation in Estonia? Can we say that, or would it be wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U254	I cannot say in any way that I will oppose this belief or belief that the people are the highest authority according to the Constitution. [[Interjection.]] What does "highest power" mean? The highest power is sovereignty. We can't get past the word'sovereignty' etymology. That's actually the question of the highest power. We need to talk about the highest power here. When we are talking about a democratic country, we need to look at the international legal order and there is a different unit for the category of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U255	Thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask for a joint presentation by the Commission of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U256	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Code of Civil Procedure and other laws 404 was at first reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 10 April. The discussion was attended by Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Stella Johanson, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice. They presented the content and objectives of the draft to the Commission and answered questions put by its members. As the Minister said here very thoroughly, there is a European order for the attachment of bank accounts, which is a directly applicable legislation. However, even though it is directly applicable, it is necessary to specify the procedure at national level. This bill therefore amends 13 Estonian laws. The purpose of the amendments and the Preservation Order is to facilitate cross-border debt recovery in civil and commercial terms only! This means a possible seizure of the debtor's bank accounts in the European Union. The enforcement of this order will result in the debtor's bank account being blocked, but the order will not allow the creditors to be paid out. In the longer term, the Commission was discussing the preconditions for an urgent payment order procedure. This is where the APR comes in. It was said that if the agreed rate exceeds the upper limit of the APR laid down in the Law of Obligations Act, the urgency procedure would not apply. A question came from Commissioner Valdo Randpere about what happens if the law of another country allows for the levying of a ceiling of charge. The Minister explained that the same principles would then be applied as the upper limit of the overall percentage rate of charge. Stella Johanson added that the urgent payment order procedure that this draft allows is an extremely formal electronic procedure and no one prohibits the same requirements that do not meet the conditions of the urgent procedure from being brought in the action. Disputes against the claim are also extremely formalised in the urgent procedure of the order for payment. No one needs to even justify their objections, it is sufficient if the debtor disagrees. On the basis of this Regulation, the Court of Justice and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators will become the authority for obtaining information. The Commission also took procedural decisions. It was proposed that the draft be sent to plenary for the first reading by 19 April, i.e. today. It was decided to make proposals for the completion of the first reading and to set the deadline of 4 May for the submission of amendments. It was also decided to appoint Urve Tiidus as rapporteur for the Commission. The Commission made all these decisions unanimously. That was the introduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-19_U257	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks again to the waitress. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. In that case, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 404. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 404 amendments. a 4 May at 4 p.m. Dear Riigikogu, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 5.30 p.m.
