ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U1	Good morning to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu. This morning and the crutch are designed to work indoors. We will start the 4th working week Tuesday session of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U2	Good vice chairman! Good morning. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I will report an inquiry to Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration. The subject is the right to self-determination of villages. The representatives of several villages in Järvamaa and Valgamaa have already collected signatures from the spring of last year. Their aim is to inform local residents that they wish to join one municipality or another. In Järvamaa, the people of Ambla and Käravete area have wished to join in the direction of Tapa. In Valgamaa, however, there is a municipality such as the municipality of Puka, which has failed or has not wished to start any successful accessions, and Soonta, Meegaste and Aakre have met and submitted their addresses. Since both Ambla and Puka municipalities have answered no to the villages, we ask whether the Government of the Republic has the will to come to the villages and give priority to the wishes of the local people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U3	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one inquiry, and the procedure is decided by the Management Board of the Riigikogu on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Please, presence check! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present, 19 is missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U4	Today's first item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend 'Constitution of the Estonian Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The procedure for dealing with this item is as follows, ladies and gentlemen. First there is a presentation by the representative of the leading committee, then each member of the Riigikogu can ask the rapporteur one oral question. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. I would now like Mr Herkel, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to present the Chair to the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U5	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Indeed, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has initiated the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe'. Using more traditional or such abbreviationd language, it can be said that the OSCE Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly is at issue. The amendments are due, first, to the fact that the coalition has changed and, second, to the fact that one of the members of the delegation has therefore left the Riigikogu of Mati Raidma. The result of these changes is that Mart Nutt will continue as Head of Delegation, the members of the delegation will be Külliki Kübarsepp and Toomas Vitsut (Toomas Vitsut used to be an alternate), and the alternates will be Uno Kaskpeit, Jaanus Marrand and Urve Tiidus (Urve Tiidus has presented the Reform Party in place of Mati Raidma). The Committee on Foreign Affairs presented a draft on 18 January. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board, which was on 20 January. The procedural decisions are as follows: to propose to the Bureau that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, 7 February, that the draft be put to the final vote and adopted as a decision. The presentation was authorised by decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U6	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, dear waitress. Are the groups willing to enter into negotiations? I don't see that initiative. No amendments have been tabled to the draft, as you have heard. The proposal of the commission is to put the draft to a final vote on 372. Let's start preparing the vote. Since your presence is impressive, I ask if we are ready to vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe' presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs' draft 372. Please take a stand and vote. 84 MPs voted in favour of the draft and 1 abstention. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U7	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 351 of Amendment to the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, initiated by Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Igor Gräzini, Madis Milling and Martin Helme. On behalf of the initiators, please present a speech chair to the member of the Riigikogu, Igor Gräzini!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to give you a summary of one of those amendments that no one really noticed back then. Because it's so simple, I don't have a text to read, but I'm just gonna tell the story. You see, there have sometimes been moments in the history of the Estonian state when one or the other social institution or institution has had to assume the role of managing the state and the nation. It hasn't always mattered what institution it was. Krista knows better that there was certainly a time in our history when the moral nature of the Estonian state was led by Karl Menning and Vanemuine, which was no more than a regular play club and cultural house. But Menning and Vanemuine were the beacons of the Estonian nation at the time. I think these beacons could be found right now. The question is, where are they taking us? A kind of lighthouse in the sense of Ernesaksa 'Torms Beach' is undoubtedly the Enterprise Development Foundation. It also shows morale, but I'm not sure we want to line it up. So, a moral beacon. What has happened today is that this function is performed by an institution such as national broadcasting, whether or not it wants to, and mostly by success rather than by success. There's a reason. We're all exposed to national broadcasting. A lot of people in this hall perform there. We often answer the questions of journalists there, we care about these journalists, and we care about their opinions. And most importantly, as a preface, thanks to this great school, which was led by Oskar Lõvi and Felix Moor, later included the brilliant generation of stars Trickkel, Lauri, Hion, Peeter Hein, Annes Herodes, thanks to all these people, Mari Tarand, Helgi Põldroos and others, thanks to the whole of the plejate who has built up the Estonian National Broadcasting, I must say, we have a lighthouse that looks far and far. Public broadcasting is not an office among offices, but an object of our pride. Just as in the village culture house, it was enough for a party to have the radio Silverhall, because the radio Silverhall meant that the Estonian people, Estonian culture and Estonian spirit arrived. In order to be able to fulfil this function, national broadcasting has a relatively peculiar position, called the "Ethical Advisor' (Ethical Advisor) position. This counselor gets paid and he deals with certain issues. I do not want to return to the individual specific cases discussed by the Ethics Adviser, I am simply talking about this institution as an institution. When I say that there is something wrong or not done quite well, I must add that the Estonian people and the Estonian National Broadcasting have done well, that they have this person as ethical advisor, but not, for example, Gräzin, because then the situation would just be catastrophic. By not being an ethics advisor, the Estonian people have once again been lucky. But now I'm talking about an ethical advisor. How does he develop, what does he do, and how is he assigned? According to the current law, the Ethics Advisor is appointed by the Management Board and the Management Board is appointed by the Supervisory Board. The adviser himself shall have the opportunity to set up an ethics committee or committee. The counsellor has a paid job and does his/her job, fulfilling his/her daily duties. This is the current situation. Our proposal is different. This type of ethics advisor becomes an ethics rapporteur or whatever, in short, he is no longer an independent institution. Instead, we are trying to create a social activeist that belongs to the National Broadcasting Advisory Board, including outstanding musicians, writers, religious scientists and anyone, some sort of ethics council with a broader, nationally recognised and also accepted moral authority in society. A member of this council would not be a servant. Like I said, there's an ethics advisor and he's doing his job. But in order for us to understand what he's doing, I've taken out the last six months' data on what the ethics advisor has been up to, even though not all the questions are written here. Ethical issues, for example, were such. Claim: too little time is given for opposition. Broadcast response: enough will be given. The complaint: not politically balanced. Broadcast response: yes, it is. The claim: 'Forum' was given too much time to one party. Advisor's response: currently. The claim: 'Forum' experts are not experts of any kind. ETV response: There is no better place to take and these experts were very good. Claim: the presidential elections are not unbalanced. The response of the Broadcast Council shall be: The complaint: the interview was too sharp. Answer: ETV is right and the right press is sharp. The claim: homosexual marriages are too much talked about. Answer: They are spoken of and say thank you for speaking about your opponents at all. Question: why are subtitles not okay? Answer: The error is in Elion, and we don't fix Elion's boxes. Question: why are so few names published for people who support ETV? Answer: If there are glasses, it will see, from now on we will have a small letter but to run slower, and at all we recommend that if there are sponsors, they will go to the website and if no one will find it, it will be his fault. Very good questions, which once again confirm what I said, that national broadcasting works impeccablely. I think so, too. But the other thing is that none of these answers, as you noticed, were related to ethics. Whether or not there are subtitles is not a moral or ethical question. To be honest, even political balance is not an ethical issue within certain limits. Imbalancedness may be a great mess, but not necessarily immorality. If there are no titles and the programme is out of political balance, then this programme is not immoral, it is simply a klutz and unprofessional. But if we want to find examples of moral nature, the classic case is that in the Estonian National Broadcasting, a message was sent (and the news made a thorough comment) that all those who oppose Rail Baltic are pro-Kremlin-minded. The subject was further developed on 13 December last year. We discussed a key national issue here, the Baltic railways. Question: how many times and how much was this debate reflected in national broadcasting? Right, not once, not a second. Tell me what you want, but those who want to get their picture on TV shouldn't count on national broadcasting. Now a great example of ethics from the border. The biggest and most important hockey match ever took place in Tallinn between Riga and the Magnitogorski team. How many minutes has it been transferred? Right, zero. Did the sports news tell you about this? No. Nor is it a direct ethical question, if you forget that this is a (non-written) decision of the National Broadcasting Council adopted ten years ago, that since there are no hockey players among Estonians and this is a strange thing at all, there are no and there are no transfers of NHL's top games in Estonia, despite the fact that Tondiraba hall is full of hockey viewers. Specialists say that there has been no hockey match played in Estonia before or after, where both sides would have had at least NHL's second draft players. I mean, there hasn't been anything this big in Estonia before or after. Is that a moral question? I don't know, but I totally agree that this is a professionally very poor behavior that, under certain conditions, acquires moral significance. Small professional mistakes happen from time to time, which are inevitably given ethical meaning today, which does not really have it. One said a little bad about someone, no one could answer for as long as he wanted to, things like that happen in the press all the time. The question is simply whether the national broadcasting should not be set in this great stream of broadcasting to another, higher level ethically. When I talk about ethics, I want to point out that ethics and morality are not the same thing. Moral is a system of norms, ethics is a doctrine of a system of norms. In this case, a hired official inside the house is simply unable to make the decision. Maybe another important question. As I mentioned, at the moment there is an ethics counsellor, it is on the payroll of the Estonian National Broadcasting Office. He does the same thing as the legal consul does in the company, in other words, he does not make decisions, but he represents the company in the event of possible conflicts with other companies. This is the best example of the problem of TV3's paid-up "news" recently, even after the initiation of this draft. In this regard, the Ethics Advisor said that the paid-up news was not news but advertising, and he forgot to say that the paid-up ethics advisor was not an ethics advisor, but a deputy legal consul who performed only one function: representing his company. If we are talking about the fact that we want the Estonian Public Broadcasting to broadcast on the air constantly, especially in this difficult post-truth era, in circumstances where everyone lies about what we can believe and what is good, then we are still thinking about the creation of an ethics council that is not involved in national broadcasting in any other way, only by name. He would stand between us, i.e. ordinary people and national broadcasting, rather than stand as a shield on the side of national broadcasting if it were to make mistakes from time to time. Once again, I stress that mistakes are not many and maybe they are not mistakes, but they are my subjective approach. Let me give you a fun example, which you can say is beyond ethics. I am glad that we have always stayed on the right side, i.e. this border has not been breached, but you can of course say that it has always been close. Remember the story of the deportation of Sepa and Avandi. One of the most brilliant sketches of all time on Estonian Television is 'Estonia seeks supernatsi', because there was also a very clear definition of the object of irony; it was Scandinavian left-half socialism. The political message in the Super Nazi Sketch was actually humane and very humane. I recall the Lost Lembitu Kuus, whose undoubtedly one of the best reports was from a swimming contest, one of which was the drinking of vodka. There was a problem that the President of the Swim League, our fellow Member, Evelyn Sepp at the time, wanted to go to court against him, but they agreed, because everything was actually very benevolent. Those things happen anyway. The creator, the writer, is also terribly difficult for the author to decide where the ethical limit is. He wants to talk about a very important thing, but he doesn't dare, because suddenly it's politically incorrect, and suddenly it's not as ethical as he thought it would be, maybe it's better not. This means that creation will not be created, because even the most brilliant single Creator will always look at himself a little side by side, how he will be accepted, what is thought of this thing, and so on. At the moment, what has inevitably happened from the work of the Ethics Advisor is that if you turn to him, the answers are extremely formalistic and do not help us in ethical terms. To make an ethical assessment, a person does not necessarily have to go to university or know how much time he studied ethics. Ethics is not learnable, ethics is not in the brain, ethics is mostly in the heart. As Mihkel Mutt has written, we have many wise people, but we are short of affection. I stress this aspect of warmness and humanity with regard to national broadcasting and everything that it carries over and forwards, from singing parties to intimate conversations. He should wear some sort of higher stereotype or at least meet some higher standards so that we always know that being produced in national broadcasting, whether online or anywhere, is polite, benevolent and good-hearted. If it's sharp and you go after somebody, it's for something good. The public broadcasting does not pay in person, but stands for the Estonian people. The real way out is for an ethics board to be set up. This would be made up of 15 people who are currently in the social council of Estonian National Broadcasting. These include respectable people such as Marju Lauristin, Kadri Tali, Erich Teigmägi, Daniel Raspberry, Maria Alajõe, Vitali Belobrovtsev, Toomas Kivimägi, Linnar Viik, Vahur Kraft, Hagi Šein. In short, this group of people will find three or four people, either among themselves or among the Estonian public, who would form the ethical welfare council of Estonian National Broadcasting or an ethics council or similar. These people would not be on the payroll in any way, but would simply be a group of authoritative people who would provide answers if ethical problems were to arise. If it happens that those three or four or five people don't come together for a year, don't drink coffee or talk about anything, then we can at least say that we're fine on ethical issues. I'm sure these people are involved in another profession, and in front of it, they wouldn't be going to the meeting just because of the meeting. We have also included a small additional clause: these people should not be professional economists or professional journalists. That's for two reasons. I myself am a professional ethician and I am reading the basic course of ethics at Tallinn University this semester. I've been in contact at conferences with dozens, but maybe hundreds of ethics professors, and I can tell you that there are immoral people among ethics professors that kill them. Knowledge doesn't make anyone more moral. I think you often find a moral person faster among honest and good plumbers and shoemakers than among moral professors. Secondly, the moral values we are talking about are not based on reading books, and not just on reading books, as there is one working body within a person that determines his morality. This is his home parenting, on which his soul and heart depend. Consequently, the purpose of this amendment to the law is to make the world a very small world Estonia and its very small part of the world's national broadcasting even more ethical and moral than it is now. Once again, there has been no reproach, but there is simply a desire for a little more goodness in the world. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U9	The first question to the rapporteur is asked by Ms Tuus-Laul.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U10	Thank you. Good colleague Igor! Of course, you're right that we're lucky to have an ETV ethics advisor today. The only mistake now is that he is working in relationships with subordinates and, of course, he must sing to some extent the song he is expected to sing, even though he is still trying to give honest answers. But you said independence, impartiality and balance weren't a question of ethics. Shouldn't we start calling it something else? Although, I recall, independence, impartiality and balance are, however, the main categories of the Code of Journalism Ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U11	We will start at the end of the question from the code of ethics. Ethics, which is written somewhere, is no longer ethical; it is called sloppy jurisprudence in English, i.e. sluggish jurisprudence. When it is said that someone has broken Article 4 (1) of the Code of Ethics, for example, it means that it is not moral, but it is an intelligent decision that has little to do with conscience, even though it is a code of ethics. Now this issue of political balance. This is a very serious problem that you and I have been talking about for over a decade. I don't know how this system works right now. But basically, I totally admit that in national broadcasting, there should be a man or a woman sitting in a chair in a corridor near where people and shows go out. In the old days, he sat on the fifth floor of the old radio house, and he was called a spooky catfish, or issuer. In other words, it was the person who controlled what was going on. It is likely that one of its tasks should be to deal with political balance. In my opinion, political balance in national broadcasting is such an important problem that people can even pay to deal with it. But it has nothing to do with the ethical aspect of politics. However, if, for example, one party in the presidential debates is simply separated or completely frozen in some kind of programme in one direction or another, it is, in my opinion, immoral. But we're talking about a separate job. By the way, I've thought on several occasions that interesting who looks at their ties, those who go to the screen, because the tie is often so... [[He's screwing up his tie.]] Somebody's gotta be somewhere. Good, if the makeup lady hasn't left, the operator will make sure the lighting is in order, but nobody will be responsible for the quality of the show, starting with political balance and ending with it. There's just no place at the radio station right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U12	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! Was there a particular case, or what was the catalyst that made your mind come up with the idea of coming out with this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U14	The story itself is over ten years old, but the immediate impulse is a few months old. Many also participated in this Facebook discussion here. By the way, I also thank all those people who were morally willing to sign this bill but who, for some reason, withdrew their signature. At least their first heart movement, I'd say, was right, the second wasn't. This was the case when a personal question was asked in an official interview with an Estonian Head of State, which basically caused the interviewees to lose sight of their tears. The real result was that the interview went on the air. There was an interviewer and interviewee and two operators, an illuminator and a worker. There wasn't one among the four of them who stood up and said that men, now we're pulling the wire out of the wall, we're not doing any more interviews, because it's bad for a man to be. All four waited for these tears, and all four were worried about whether or not these tears would stay well. That guilt or that behavior was collective. That was the motive. When I addressed the ethical advisor with the relevant observation, I received the answer that everything was very well that perhaps the question was asked (and now literally) 'in a somewhat unempathetic way'. As an ethics professor, I say that even the concept of 'imoral' does not exist, even less there is 'impathetic', there is the term 'amoral' and 'antimoral'. But when it was called unempathy, which I thought was just cruel and crude, it kind of meant that it wasn't exactly understood what a function it had. There are other ethical ambiguities related to TV3 and so on. By the way, only recently, Risto Berendson also claimed that this is a real ethical problem, to which there is no response to this day. That's a fact. In short, the ethical answers did not come from there, and the one answer that came was in the pulpit, raw, and very cruel response.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U15	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U16	Thank you. I'm glad you're self-critical as an ethics professor. I wanted to say that in its time, this place was called the broadcasting sector, and now it is called the issue, but there really is no political issuer there. But I have a specific question. Why tell such a long story and praise the bill? Clearly, the idea is very correct. Of course, an ethical advisor cannot be on the salary of national broadcasting; it is already a laughing matter in the Estonian country. Why convince me if the hall should vote for your bill today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U17	Well, I guess so. But we, Heimar, understand perfectly well that if you've been given a microphone for 20 minutes, you won't be leaving in 10 minutes. When are you gonna get back to talking, aren't you? [[The excitement in the hall.]] You're gonna shut up when the mike's taken off, not before. That's point one. Point two. I explained that message, and I want to say it again. We are all part of a party, a group, etc. I actually wanted to send a message. You see, the idea of this is not some kind of administrative reform, but the idea of giving good another chance and another platform. Someone asked what kind of punishment this great ethics council is about to impose. The answer is that he will not impose any punishment. These people can just write a statement or an article where they say that this thing was ugly, don't do that anymore, it was painful, it wasn't thought out for you. Let me give you an example of an ethical assessment. Right here, where Andres is sitting, Jaak Salumets once sat, and I was sitting in front here. I don't know why, but it happened that Jaak Salumets was still a very great authority for me, as big as he could possibly be. I don't remember him ever minding. But I came here on the remote, and as always I said something wrong or too much or so again, then I sat down, Salumets knocked on my shoulder and said over my shoulder that, you know, Professor, it was just ugly. It was ten years ago, but until now, I have hairs rising when I think of Salumets saying it was ugly. By the way, notice, the peculiarity of the press council is that they never wisely say who is to blame, they always mention the publication that, for God's sake, no one should be hurt, so that no one would accidentally be ashamed, because it would be so awful. I just want to say that we are now talking about a certain quorum, the most severe sanction of which is this: the Estonian National Broadcasting Council expresses its frustration, the Estonian National Broadcasting Council finds this to be inappropriate. Period. It's the hardest punishment I could ever use. That's what I tried to convey when I came back to Heimari's question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U18	Martin Helme has the question procedure. One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U19	Thank you. Good Igor! I am a member of the ERR Board, and I do not see it as my role in defending the interests and uniforms of the organisation, but I consider myself to be a member of the supervisory body. I have to admit that at Council meetings, I have constantly expressed my dissatisfaction with a great many things, including the imbalances you spoke of. I think it is obvious that the taxpayer will pay almost EUR 35 million a year to receive left-hand radical liberal propaganda. ERR has become an echo chamber for radical left-liberals who convince each other of one, two, or three things. I see how I, as a member of the Council, have no influence on this, and I also see how Tarmu Tammerk, as an ethics advisor, has no influence on it. Do you think there's any hope for this new collection to open up the echo chamber?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U20	If there was no hope, I wouldn't have come here. But if someone now says, "God, they don't have a real chairman, and what if they don't come together? What if they don't? Then nothing's gonna happen. ' You know what I'm gonna say? Look, nothing's gonna happen. The worst thing that can happen is that it stays the way it is today. But I think we should be able to choose four or five-six people from these 15 or from any one of them, all Estonians, all Estonians consider moral authority. As humans, they are often very modest; they are not such terrible writers of articles from morning to evening. But if they're given the status that you're national broadcasting, I don't know, ethics or something like that, then I think if these people feel that something has gone terribly wrong now, they're gonna talk about it. I don't mean they do it from night to night, but when there's a topic that people are talking about. For example, people are now talking about "Actual Camera" and news. I'm reminding you of that "Timuri and his team" performance that ran through the news several times. Was it a pure archive presentation, or was there a moral aspect? I guess that's when these people take the floor, use their title and help. If we don't know what to say, then we have people to turn to and tell who I saw it, the other and the third. If it's really necessary, I think they'll be able to answer. I do not believe that this work is very big, but the mere fact that such a quorum as this exists is, in my opinion, a good one. As strange as it may seem, very many national broadcasters themselves around the corner say it would be good if it came now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U21	Andrei Novikov.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U22	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, § 31 (2) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act states that, on the proposal of the Ethics Advisor, the Management Board decides on the establishment of an Ethics Council, i.e. in the law there is an opportunity to establish an Ethics Council already. It also states that the ethics advisor will be appointed by the Governing Board with the agreement of the Council, who in turn will be appointed by us here. Doesn't it seem to you that this law is trying to solve the problem of a particular case, doesn't it duplicate the existing situation? Or do you have any doubts as to whether the Council, with whose consent the Ethics Advisor is appointed, is still independent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U23	As you rightly said, the ethics advisor is appointed by the board. It's exactly the same way he hires a juris consul, the head of the transport department, a sofa-chopper and anyone. I mean, he's under the authority of certain employees. Similarly, as an employee, he is also subject to an ethics advisor, whose board pays. Next thing. The Ethics Adviser has the right to propose the establishment of an Ethics Council if he or she feels that he or she lacks ethical knowledge or advice. Then an executive body will be set up. Officer, if he wants to, he'll create another social thing. So far, the counselor hasn't missed the ethics advice, so there is. So this is not an ethics council, but it would be an executive body, just like the National Broadcasting Council, of which I have been a member for ten years, also the National Library Council, of which I am a member, we are an executive body, we manage the National Library. What we are talking about now is that we appoint an ombudsman. In fact, not the kind of Ombudsman we understand from this office, but the kind that Karl XI understood. Not Karl XII, don't be wrong! In Karl XI's time it was that there was a people standing here, and there was power, and the Ombudsman was there in the middle, and he understood the law between them and reconciled them; he was not a judicial body. We are now talking about the ERR Ethics Council, perhaps there is a better word that is not part of the ERR, even as a council, and which performs a wider function than merely monitoring the ERR, for which there is no immediate need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U24	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U25	Thank you. Good colleague! It seems to me that we have had a debate here on a key national issue in the context of the debate on one draft. The issue of ethics in Estonian National Broadcasting is undoubtedly a very necessary topic development. However, my question remains within the framework of the draft itself. What is behind this, the content of the bill, the explanatory statement and your outstanding speech today in presenting this bill are all very necessary. But purely pro forma, how do you feel if, without amending the law, the ERR Council would be able to invite a large number of ethical people to help on a social basis to control the controller (quis custodiet ipsos custodes, or who controls the controller?) And that would solve the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U26	The answer is very simple: no, this is not possible in the current situation. But as for the fact that we are talking about a crucial national issue, I will come back to Karl Menning. Let's go back to the cultural people of that time: Jungholz, Wiera. You see, when a nation develops, it may suddenly happen that an institution of a nation takes on important importance from the point of view of the conscience of the nation. I am thinking, for example, of building Alexander's school. When we talk about such things as the post-truth society, the production of fictitious news, the relativity of truth, the question of whether we really need a church or not, and why we do not need a church and what to do with it, and what is moral and what is not, when we look at what is happening in our schools and so on, I say that there is an ethical crisis in Estonia today. I did not come here to solve an ethical crisis, whatever I could do, but I just noticed that among the national institutions there is one who could play a much greater role in maintaining the mental health of the Estonian nation and in improving and improving our mental health than is done by a common state institution. I'm talking about making it a little bit better, and it's a lot bigger than this particular law. I agree with this that the moral health of the Estonian people and our current moral condition are an important national issue. But I can eat my hat because the question of such a formulation will never come before the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U27	Viktoria Ladynskaja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U28	Good Igor Gräzin! I think the subject is complicated and the debate is about the matter. Clearly, many questions were raised last year on the subject of journalistic ethics. But now there's three aspects, that's "but." We are saying that we already have too many institutions that control each other, we are also talking about state reform. Here comes another organ. It is also a question of who will then decide who can be made of by a moral beacon. I'm not asking who this moral beacon is, but I'm asking who's gonna decide who's gonna tell us what's good and what's bad. The third issue is education. As lecturers, you will understand that if a journalist has a sense of mission and good education, these ethical problems are relatively few.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U29	From professional journalists, as well as from professional lawyers, I always hear that many ethical problems arise. But okay, it's a question of assessment. You touched on a very important subject. We've been talking about a little empathy, and so on. In fact, there is one question that the current system of ethics does not answer. I read it out, it's once formulated: "Little boy, lowlife, wants to know everything, asks Dad what's good, what's good, what's bad. ' Vladimir Majakovsky asked this question, and that is the question that is never asked in the Estonian National Broadcasting. The National Broadcasting Council has never asked a question in ten years, which is good and what is bad, but has asked what the viewing capacity of the programme is, what has happened now, whether it has said what we are answering it and how we are missing EUR 40000 from the Prime Minister in order to make a football broadcast. Those are the things. But if it's good or bad, it's human or inhuman, no one's asked. Who are these people? They could be some other people, but I'm going to call you those who are currently in the social council for national broadcasting, I stress that they are in society. If there are bad people among them, I just don't know it. Linnar Viik, Vahur Kraft, Hagi Šein, Vitali Belobrovtsev, Toomas Kivimägi, Maria Alajõe, Kadri Tali, Priit Põldoja, Marju Lauristin, Erich Teigmägi, Jana Pavlenkova, Jüri Võigemast, Ülle Madise, Daniel Varik and Kristi Vinter. Are there any people among them you don't trust? I don't think there are people like that here. I stress that this is not an institution among others. We are talking about national broadcasting, but above all, we are talking about the current moral status of the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U30	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U31	Good manager! Good waitress! When you came up with this bill, it was entirely clear to me, and I would have liked to have signed it. After all, it was the story of my partymate Jüri Ratas and his esteemed father, Rein Ratas. But right now, I understand this bill is being sent to the trash can. I like this bill. The council is much better than the advisor who is on the payroll of the institution. But you, as an old wolf, tell me why I still think it's wanted to send a good bill to the trash.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U32	You know, there's two reasons. The first reason is that this idea sees the repetition of the existing ideas that Viktoria was talking about. The second reason is that we are used to voting by political group, we are used to voting for specific drafts, coalition agreements and other such things, but the idea that in a national parliament we might talk about such things as humanity and goodness probably seems new to us. That's what makes it difficult. One way I'd love to be human, but the party won't let me. On the other hand, I'd like to be good, but also good is the coalition right now, and we're not. In short, it is clear what this whole debate today actually shows: good and bad, and humanity and inhumanity are moral, but not political categories. There is no concept of party goodness. The fact that the coalition is largely opposed to this bill is, to some extent, simply a historical accident, people acting so inertly. One small observation, by the way. The point is that one argument about why the government doesn't like this is that all the bad things that broadcasting can do are suing the court for being wounded and dishonored by personal honor. It's true. In this case, however, the decisions taken by national broadcasting in this direction are legally wrong, because there is no possibility of appeal. In fact, if you get a parking ticket, what's the first thing you read on that receipt after the amount? You're reading where you can appeal. The Ethical Advisor for National Broadcasting never says that, just in case, because there's a danger that suddenly someone will go to court and hold it, God, for that, because it's the duty of the counselor to muffle it, but not send it to court. Not to mention the stories that Peter Ernits told, which are simply immoral or, let's say, morally excessively questionable, but which are not civil, debt-based. This has simply not been noticed by the Ministry, referring to the Law of Obligations Act. So there's no repetition or parallel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U33	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U34	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Public broadcasting belongs to all of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U36	Public broadcasting should provide us with balanced and neutral information that avoids tagging and, let's say, political categorization. This, of course, does not apply to all kinds of debate and opinion programmes, where politicians and lobbyists and lobbyists are present, but the news of national broadcasting should be balanced, because society is made up of very different groups and groups of ideas. Now, unfortunately, we can see how Mr Martin drew this attention to the fact that national broadcasting has become a tube of left-wing liberal propaganda. Neither the Ethics Council nor the Ethics Advisor nor the Committee have any influence on this. Do you have any information about who's still ordering music?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U37	You know, it's hard for me to answer because I think Marianne Mikko is about to stand up from this very left and says it's the kind of fascist on the right, or how it was. Wait, who uses the word 'fascists', Ossinovski, the most about you? I don't remember. You need to know who's calling you fascists. In short, it is a specific feature of romantic journalists and journalists who make money, and it is just to be borne in mind that a manger sells. The manger sells just as much as semen and blood. Journalists are journalists, and they say it makes the show interesting. This is why experts have been brought to the Forum, who are never experts in any specialty and who do not know politics, and these people have never been elected even to the position of dog catcher of the municipality. So, what are we talking about? They are the experts who say that this is how we have that or that political tendency! I would rather not bring it in, although I could actually talk about what has been said about the European Union, Rail Baltic, same-sex marriages, etc. It's actually kind of creepy when you start looking at what's going on, but we're not talking about these things. I will give another example, where political bias, and for us, as innocent at first glance, has simply crossed the limits of good taste, not to mention the limits of ethics. Donald Trump on the Estonian national television was a disaster. Trump has a million mistakes, he has three women (otherwise, it's not a mistake, Ingmar Bergman just started it, it's not an indicator), but I want to talk about recording Donald Trump. He's not our man in any way, Donald Trump isn't fighting for administrative reform, Donald Trump isn't against Rail Baltic, he doesn't have these human mortal sins. But now ask yourself if the way we talk about Donald Trump, how we've talked about him in the official media and, by the way, in private media has been humanely ethical or not. The fact that his stories are being told, of course, but whether he is being mocked at any moment, etc., is ethical or not, that is, in any case, a question where political, say, imbalances, in my opinion, easily acquires an immoral character. But just so a professional ethic like me doesn't have to say it, and I don't want to say it, let's have a nice council, they'll say it when someone asks them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U38	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U39	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Igor! The Centre for Ethics works at the University of Tartu and I think they are doing a very good job, for example, developing systematic value education in schools. Did you consult with the Ethics Centre when you prepared this bill? Did you consider the possibility of the Ethics Centre taking on the role of the Ethics Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U40	You see, the thing is, you always have to submit a disclaimer. The Centre for Ethics of the University of Tartu is, as we know, a competing company. Since I teach ethics at Tallinn University, I find that the ethical level at Tallinn University is superbly higher than the ethical level of Tartu, because free-minded spirit and immorality have come from Tartu over the centuries, as we all know, all of these Villem Ernitsad and others, and they are not now an ethical example for Tallinn. If they want, they can come to us for advice. We look at them and then we decide whether or not we give it to them. Let's get this straight. But if you're serious, look what we're wrong about. Ethics centres are not ethical bearers. Ethics is a science of morality, and morality means moral standards. When I said that knowing doesn't make a person ethical, it has historical truth. That was what French lighting philosophers in the 18th and 19th centuries said that people were immoral because they did not know how to behave morally, but it is only worth saying how to be good, and people are getting better. Academic ethics centres can deal with moral analysis; they can teach us what ethical rules are, what ethical systems have been, but the criticism of moral philosophy cannot in itself be an example. Exactly the same in physics, nor does a professor of physics improve television well. Also, biology teachers may not be able to cut out the appendix. Ethics is a science of morality, and ethics do this science very well. As a moral lecturer or an ethical lecturer, I could say right now that Vaat Aristotle said it was luck, Kant said it was luck, and Vladimir Ilyitch Lenin again said that happiness is to live in the Soviet Union. These are all definitions of happiness. I can undoubtedly present to you all these definitions of happiness and say that some of them did well and some of them did worse. But it doesn't give me the right to claim that as a human being, I can give you an ethical assessment because as a human being, we're equal. The most likely thing is that everyone else is more moral than me. Therefore, I think that professional ethical knowledge may contribute to the development of ethical discourse in society, but not to the better application of moral standards. What's to say for a long time, we're going to Victor Hugo's, among the homeless, the monsoons, Hugo met the highest ethical figures. If you want to see the bastards, there's nothing more to do than start reading Balzac again, and you'll find 90 ropes on the bastard's ass, one more polite than the other. I think academic ethics, yes, could be helpful, but not in this function.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U41	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U42	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The initiatives and legislative initiatives of the Riigikogu, as it is currently being discussed, will receive both formal, formal and probably informal, non-formal responses. What was the government's position, which we will hear from the next waitress, and we will probably hear from the Ministry of Culture. But you are known to have a very broad circle of acquaintances. What non-formal feedback have you received from national broadcasters, members of the National Broadcasting Board, members of the National Broadcasting Board, and any respectable individuals in society? Have you understood your ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U43	I hope I don't betray anyone. I am entitled, like journalists, to, and I am also a journalist to, confidential sources. With regard to the legal aspect of the matter, of course, neither the Ministry of Culture nor anyone else can argue against the legal text, because the legal text is written at the best level that is possible in this building, I mean the House of the Riigikogu at all. It's made here at the top of the house. Now the other thing, the other estimates. I have also received a great deal of moral support from you fellow Members. Today, too, it's patted on the shoulder that this is really a mess, but you know what I mean. If I say I don't understand, that's the whole point. The most important feedback has perhaps come from creative circles outside this house. In a situation where we have a wide range of crisis problems, which I have also mentioned here, Estonian intellectuals are of the opinion, for very understandable reasons, that this matter deserves at least attention, and it would be good if it were done, you can see what happens next. This so-called sequel of truth also disturbs writers; it disturbs composers; by the way, it disturbs a great many lecturers, including the ethics lecturers mentioned here. We don't always know how to judge, but we can see clearly that there's still some kind of crap somewhere. We've talked about this quite a bit among the ethicians. I haven't heard a single opinion that it's bad, even more, nobody's said to go take that shit back. However, there have been those who have said that it will be wonderful forever, but it will not work anyway. But maybe it will! There's one thing I'd like to warn you about, of course. Look, somebody's probably gonna propose that this thing be stopped now, and then it's for the vote. One of the possible options that might happen today is that this thing is considered unfinished and then this bill falls out. Let everyone think about it before he pushes the button, knowing that no ethical-political question, an ethical-moral question that really matters to the Estonian people, after this matter remains unfinished, in this house for the next few years and maybe there will be no more of this Riigikogu. Maybe it'll happen in ten years if there's other people here. So I guess everyone today will decide a little on the basis of their own conscience, knowing that he has this opportunity today, but tomorrow maybe that opportunity won't come or can't be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U44	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U45	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good waitress! I'm trying to understand what a good waitress is looking for. Am I right to understand that there are certain individuals whose morals and ethics are so high that they can be blindly believed? If a couple of decades ago the broadcast directors of entertainment programmes were believed very seriously and Finnish stamps were exchanged, then now that religion is so much devalued. Does this have anything to do with what you're looking for? Who would these people be in the ERR today, who you consider moral beacons to be for the whole of society and who you can always bet on? Do you feel that it is a problem that these people are becoming less and fewer because the limits and perceptions of morality and ethics are so much blurred and changing in time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U46	You touched on a very interesting subject. That sentence, by the way, ran through a meeting of the Committee on Culture. It struck me, but at that point I was not allowed to say anything, because others spoke, but there ran through this sentence: "The people of Estonia do not have such moral people that we can align with. ' I hope it is written in the minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Culture. I remember the guy who said it, and I remember the guy who said it. The fact that there are no moral people among the people of Estonia came as a surprise to me. Totally deliberately, in order not to question whether you mean this, second or third, I will just give you the example of the already lost, dead people who would certainly have been such an example to me: for example, the writer Jaan Kross, the politician, after he left, could certainly have been Tõnisson, despite all his other tricks, Eri Klas, Enn Soosaar. I call the dead so no one says, "Oh, now that's what you mean." I mean this type of people. I would argue that if, for example, Jaan Kross and Eri Klas had known that they were being asked for this and they had to look a little bit at what was going on in broadcasting, they would not have argued among themselves which was the chairman and which was the vice-chairman, who was going to record, who was paying for the coffee, and so on. They certainly wouldn't have taken up issues that are probably bullshit, such as the length of a weather girl's skirt. These people wouldn't have done it, but I think they would have agreed if they knew that society was expecting them, and they would have assessed something else. I'm talking about the type of people who, I'm saying, live next door to us. But once again, I don't want to ruin this by naming a particular name.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U47	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The rule of law of a democratic society is freedom of expression and the freedom of editor. British Broadcasting Company, or BBC, is considered to be the flagship of public service broadcasting in the world, and its employees are also invited to train TV and radio people in Estonia. Have you set an example in this regard in any particular BBC practice? Do you really think that before you go on air, you really need a good and evil sense of knowledge, even though there is an editor and editorial college?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U49	First, we come to the sieve. I don't want a sieve at all, but if it's a sieve, it'll come later. Then it comes in a ow-ai-ai-form and it's not a sieve, it's such a reprimand that next time don't do that, or even less. I think a very good ethics board would say this: you know, buddy, we didn't like the story. That is quite enough, because the journalist is also a sensitive, smart and cordial person. I think that if a person who, in his opinion, is also an authority, says that it was not beautiful, there must be no worse punishment, and there should be no worse punishment. The other thing is, about the BBC and so on. Yeah, he's one of the best, but he's not exactly standard lately. We have to consider that the BBC is operating in a slightly different room. It is precisely that there is a general parliamentary supervisory board in England, also with regard to the BBC, which operates directly, not through the media. Secondly, the BBC operates under very strong and traditional British press internal censorship, which we do not really have. If we have a journalist saying something about another, he'll always say bad things. It's a separate subject, by the way. Politicians are afraid of journalists, but thank you for not being a journalist, because only when a journalist goes after a journalist will the feathers really fly. As a result, there is no censorship of this type other than that used by fellow colleagues, journalists. Since it's a couple hundred-year tradition, there's no such thing as ours. Where else is that? Answer: nowhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U50	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U51	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Good colleague Igor! I agree very much with your presentation, especially what you said about the position of the ethical advisor in the context of the state, society and national broadcasting. I also agree with those who claim that we have been lucky to have an ethics advisor in Tarmu Tammerk's person. Of course, it is, and it adds the color of the hall here, that if you come to the remote control, you'll still take advantage of your time. That's really good. But my question comes from a passage in your report that really bothered me. You said the ethics advisor had to be replaced by some sort of ethics council. Be good and push it over! I hope it was a small accident at work in your professorially colorful language.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U52	All right. We're not talking about firing a particular person or shutting the place down, absolutely not. Let it work, let it continue to serve society, as far as it can. The problem is, I'm saying that the ethical advisor is not dealing with ethical issues right now. I gave a few examples of this. Risto Berendson also writes about such a thing. Here we are talking about defamation of Postimees: 'This could have gotten the attention of the otherwise vocal media etiquette, but this did not happen. ' I gave an example. None of the issues we see here in the reports are ethical in terms of their content. The ethical advisor is, in fact, a certain part of the jurisprudence, let's say, the juris consul, if we take it that way, in which case interfering with the real work of a lawyer and also acting as a lawyer not quite adequately, for example, as I said, without showing the possible means of appeal. I do not think it is necessary, in this form, for this one ethical advisor, who is subject specifically to his or her board of directors and who is following its orders. That's the replacement we're talking about right now. However, if it is known at the broadcasting house that there is a need for some professional supervision of balance and these things, then let them go. In the end, it's a person under the authority of the board, it's up to them to decide what they want to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U53	Thank you very much. My ear scratched the duet of my father and son in this hall, as if the ERR news were ideological, i.e. left-liberal. Dear Professor of Ethics and Liberal Democrat, according to your analysis, is ERR news inclined? This means that news editors are running some sort of community or party business. Have you noticed that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U54	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U55	I wouldn't say that. Unfortunately, I do not remember the last time I looked at the news in Estonia, there is usually nothing there. But I have noticed that the topics that are important to the Estonian people do not find news. I think it's a technical glitch. The same famous Riga and Magnitogorski game, which had never been like before, was just missed. I think it's wrong. The discussion of the construction of Rail Baltic in the Riigikogu is important and should have been reflected. In short, there are a number of very important things that are simply not included in the news. The news sequence is also often of some questionable value. But I want to stress that this is not an ethical problem, it is a problem of the professionalism of the news. As far as general bias is concerned, the news is not relevant, the programme as a whole can be biased. Always someone thinks so. I think that is why this unpolitical, purely ethical Council is needed. All right, we're talking about the missing. I said these names: Klas, Soosaar and others. Eri Klas had political views, that was perfectly clear. He used to say them all the time. But just as well we know that Eri Klas wouldn't have chased a political agenda when he made a human assessment, that's also clear. Just as it happened that they were playing ideologically mutual roles with Baskin. That doesn't mean Baskin and Klas were talking about themselves. It is very difficult to answer that question. But I know and know people sometimes I come across them, who is, how to say, above everyday things. They're real. If the tilt went too far, I think these people would notice it. I certainly wouldn't do that reproach right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U56	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U57	Good President! Good Igor! In many cases, you used the expression 'post-truth society' in your report and answers. I began to wonder what the ethics of the post-truth society was still based on, in our case, the impeccable renome of the people on the Ethics Council or something else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U58	My colleague Eero Loone has never answered the question of what philosophy is. The best answer is that philosophy is what people are called philosophers. These people get paid to deal with it. It's actually the same thing. Our ethical example is the people we place in this place. I come back to these names: neither the life story of Kross, nor the charity of Klas, nor the one or the other article of Soosaare, taken separately, made them opinion leaders or role models, but did so throughout their lives. It is not because you have decided to become an ethical leader from next year, but because society has raised you to such heights. It's just the way it is. It is our job to recognise these people, to realise that they are the ones whom we recognise as our own leaders, at least in this area, or whose opinion matters to us very much. If they say something's bad, we're gonna scratch our heads, that it's all of a sudden bad, and if they say that's what's done well, we're gonna feel good when they say that about us. These are the people. Where do they come from? I understand that's a legally sloppy answer, but they're just somewhere in society. I think it is our job to give them another function or position and as a society, not only to recognize these people, but to say that they are now. Guys, that's it!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U59	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U60	Honourable waitress! I will clarify the question of a good colleague, Marianne Mikko. He mentioned the father and the son. Well, let's put on some more holy spirit. However, as regards 'Actual Camera' and the bias or influence of national broadcasting news, one very concrete example is that of December 13, when a debate on Rail Baltic took place on the initiative of our group as a key national issue. It was in the main news in all media publications, it was on TV3 news, for example, but there wasn't a word about it in the "Actual Camera." Not a word! But the morning news said we were pro-Kremlin. So much for impartiality. Another example, which proves ideological bias, is that the news about Trump is being referred directly from the Washington Post, which has firmly chosen one side and has taken a very aggressive stand against the current President. We're going to copy the news one to one. That's the tilt. There was no time for questioning. Thank you, Igor!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U61	If he didn't, he didn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U62	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U63	Thank you, good manager. Good Igor! I do not really think that, as Members of Parliament and elected politicians in Parliament, we should discuss the content of national broadcasting programmes and deal inevitably with political evaluation and the cursing of one or the other. That is why I would like to return to the actual content of the draft that you have tabled and ask again. The law now allows the same Council to be formed. I'm sure you've looked into the background and dealt with it before you filed the bill. For what reasons has this Council not yet been formed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U64	Thank you for being able to come back to the substance of this matter. I totally agree with you that this talk is wider than the evaluation and review of one or the other show. Why has this decision not been made so far? But why would I do that? For example, place yourself as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Broadcasting Council. If you have an idea that you need to set up an ethics council, the first thing you're gonna say to yourself is that, scary sleep, go away, I don't need it, I have enough to do. You have a hired employee with an ethics advisor's title. When ethical mistakes occur and they happen or some technical mistakes occur, you have a person who answers for you, writes the answer, seals the television and the ERR, and that is the official answer, the story is over. In order to avoid any further trouble, the advisor also fails to say that this decision is subject to appeal, because otherwise some will actually appeal. Consequently, it is in the interests of the Governing Board that it should not be the Council. The ethical advisor is currently in a monopoly position. I mean, in all these matters, which are not purely legal, but are quasi-legal, close to law, he actually has a monopoly. Since this matter is legally ambiguous, it is very useful for it not to be dealt with by the legal consul. Even less so, he needs people who will help him or actually interfere with him and argue with him. What does he need it for? We are dealing with a clear, top-down chain of command, whose task is to enable him to do his main job, but also to protect the organization against possible external attacks. That is why the ethics advisor is the last to form this council. He is a public official whose job is to deal with correspondence and not the content of the matter, and it is certainly not in his interest to make more competitors for himself. This is the famous third principle of Peter: the official is not interested in attracting competitors. Of course, he never will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U65	Andrei Novikov, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Both the discussion in this Chamber and the content of the bill have given me the impression that under the label of the general act, an individual act is essentially sought to resolve a particular case. Can you confirm that this is not the case? Will the costs of national broadcasting increase or decrease when this law is passed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U67	If the current Ethics Advisor maintains his or her position as a referee or as such, he or she will not increase or decrease. I think they will not increase, because the future ethics council will certainly include people who can buy their own coffee and tea and go together. So there's no increase to be expected here. It is not a single act here either; it is a new institution. So in this case, it is neither a parallel nor a complementary act nor anything like that. By the way, according to the bill, the position of ethics advisor is lost in this form. However, this does not mean that a particular person cannot continue in any other quality. One of the major changes foreseen here is that ethical advisors no longer sign ethical papers. He can prepare these papers, he can give advice, he can write correspondence, or he can ask whether or not they are satisfied. But when it comes to making an assessment, papers signed by an ethical advisor are not ethical conclusions. That's one major change. Everything else would remain the same. By the way, if you've noticed, I've given you examples of the time since this bill was launched. For the first time, however, this question came up, I would say, in 2007. This was linked to the share of Estonian National Broadcasting in reflecting the events of the Bronze Night. Those events will soon be ten years. Then the question arose as to whether everything that ran through the air and was said about bronze night was ethical or not. So this is the first time in the Riigikogu, but the subject has been up for at least ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U68	Good Igor! You were a representative of the initiators of the bill at the meeting of the Committee on Culture. The presentation and responses of the initiator of the draft act are very often quite different from those of the Commission rapporteur. So I'm taking this opportunity to ask you directly. The Commission has proposed to reject the draft at first reading. What were these main arguments? Do you remember the result of the vote? Who was in favour of the rejection and on what grounds did they not support the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U69	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U70	The reason for rejecting the draft proposal is given by the Commission rapporteur, because it was the place where I, as a guest, had to leave the meeting. So I don't know what they were discussing and what they were doing there, but I know the result of the vote: 5: 1. By the way, the four of us started this bill. I'm going to take this opportunity to erase my debt to Krista Aru, and I'm going to say thank you. He was the one who supported us. If the four of us win, we win with you, Krista, and if we lose, we go with you. Thank you, Krista! You were really, really important to us. I can simply repeat the main arguments of the Ministry that ran through the Commission. First, the dishonor of the honour of a person is unlawful and is subject to § 1046 of the Law of Obligations Act, therefore no additional regulation is necessary. That's right. We are talking about moral standards, not dishonoring the honor and dignity of a person. Secondly, the Ministry does not take into account the fact that a person has to find a reference to the defence against the dishonor of honour and dignity, which the National Broadcasting Council will never do. I mean, the practice of the National Broadcasting Council is illegal in this respect. First of all, it is not about morality, and second of all, it is illegal. Thirdly, the draft excludes the participation of journalists and professionals in the Ethics Council; according to current laws, this restriction is unjustified. I explained why this is justified: because knowledge does not replace values. But if the professional ethnics and everyone else want to be part of that council, remember that they can't get a penny out of it, but they have to think all the time, and so on. If there's a lot of people like this, I think we can take that limit off, even though Margit Sutrop wrote last night in Postimees that he's not gonna work without money anymore. If he's changed his mind and wants to do it, welcome to another free job! Actually, I'm not saying welcome because I'm not going there. Lastly, the argument that the Ethics Council, on the proposal of the Ethics Advisor, can also be made in accordance with the current law. Once again, a lie has been answered. And that's it. I didn't hear any other substantive objections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U71	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U72	Thank you, President-in-Office. Speaker! I do not agree at all with the idea that we, as politicians, should not discuss the content of the ERR programmes. It is about taxpayers' money, a publicly funded television channel. If its actions are politically clearly biased and the elected leaders of the people and the decisions of the people in both the United States and Britain are being attacked, it is not only an ethical problem, but also a clear security threat, because they are still our biggest allies. If this committee of ethics is to be set up, do you think there should be no political bias, apart from ethics, and would this committee be able to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U73	I do not think that, by definition, this committee will be able to deal with political issues. If we take it as a criterion that it is not that one party appoints one, the other appoints another and the third member, but that social council, which already exists, chooses these members from among itself or from among other people, then it is as apolitical in nature as one thing can be apolitical. I think that's what he's very valuable about. We know that Jaan Kross was our colleague from the Fatherland Union, we know that Eri Klas was on the board of the Centre Party and whatever, but I didn't mention these people because they were members of the Central Party or the Fatherland Union, but because they were idolized to us. There are likely to be more such idols. Although politics is not something despicable in itself, but simply to maintain the purity of these people's moral ideals, perhaps it would be worth keeping these people as far away from politics as possible in their assessments, although this is not really possible. Some political issues take on moral meaning, but it is not a function of these people. I just want to... Yeah, well, there's one more thing I can say. All right. Wave, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U74	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U75	Thank you. Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak, Igor, thank you. I think we have come to the issue of setting up an Ethics Council. I think the weak point in this bill is that it is determined by the decree of the Minister of Culture. It is strange that the Minister of Culture should be involved in this matter. How should the government appoint a voluntary council? That's one. Secondly, if there is a situation that there are no people who would be willing to participate in this ethics council, what then? I will also make a small correction for the sake of the verbatim: Jaan Kross, in my opinion, was not in the Patriotic Union, but among the Social Democrats, and Eri Klas was perhaps never on the board of the Centre Party. But yes, if there is no one who would like to come to this council, what will happen, and why must the Minister of Culture appoint this council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U76	Let's start with the Minister of Culture. It's a very simple technical procedure. There is also the possibility that these 15 people will draw lots and decide who the three or four of them will be. It's no matter what the method of determination is. If this case is still being dealt with, it will be the place of the dispute. Why the Minister of Culture? Just because he's outside this process, he's going to determine them once, and that's the end of his function. Somebody's gotta do this thing because look, if there's one thing that's so vague, there's gotta be one person out there who's running it for a second. He's just gonna bring them together sometime, then he's gonna go out the door and say, guys, you keep doing it. It's the same function that a judge in the United States has when jurors meet for the first time. The judge comes into the room with them and says they have to choose a chairman, he doesn't care how they choose him, but they have to have a chairman whose name he wants to know in half an hour. Then he'll go away. Whether they're arguing or fighting in there, it doesn't matter, but the first time, someone's gonna have to get this company together. That's the first thing. The other thing is that the Ministry of Culture is curating this area. I think that as a minister of culture in his state, soul, etc. as his own person, he is the first person to understand the unconventional ethical beauty of this event. In addition, I would ask Laine whether he thinks it would be better if the Ethics Council were appointed, for example, by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications or by the Chairman of the Board of EAS. I'm afraid that these things could turn out worse, but it's better if the Minister of Culture does it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U77	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U78	Thank you. It is very alarming to constantly hear from the right corner of this hall the ambition to start interfering with the content of programmes through the Ethics Council in accordance with this bill. It's just called censorship. I worked at the Estonian Radio in 1983-1991 and I know what censorship is. I would now like to know from the rapporteur whether this Ethics Council, which you propose to be created, has been signed by a gentleman in the right-hand corner, is going to interfere with the content of the programmes, but will still remain a post-programme institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U79	I'd say even more. It remains not so much a programme, but a case and post-programme institution. That's what you see when you see what the functions of this council are. Let's get back to that example. This is actually a very nasty and very bad example, all the more so as it is likely that this matter has been corrected. In short, in my opinion, the host, who asked a raw and cruel question and after he had gotten interviewed to cry, continued the show because tears were important and that thing was squeezed. I think it's unethical behavior. Now the question. What was unethical? Was the show unethical? Absolutely not. Was the operator alone unethical in itself? I'm sure it wasn't. Perhaps not even the host was unethical at the time, but the situation as a whole was unethical. This council would not supervise this programme as a whole, not the previous, subsequent or subsequent programmes, but it would assess the specific episode that the escorts were, or who were, in that case, ill-treated. That's it. It may not even be a show, maybe not even a forum as a whole, but it could be a sentence, one thing you and I will look at together and then we'll say, oh, it was ugly. That's it. It might even be a program, or, I don't know, some sort of showcase in its entirety on the edge of ethics. Here is an example: all kinds of hocus-pocus, sobers, etc., on the one hand, and science programmes on the other. Without hocus pocus, it's not cool, there's nothing to do. Mang predicted 30 years ago that, Igor, you're going to be awfully good. See, he wasn't wrong either, you see, he's doing great. But the question of ethics is how much against the Mangi Tõravere Observatory, for example. It's not about banning this show, because separately, the Mangi show can be very good. Let him be, as long as it doesn't bother. So it's not a program, not a program, but rather a case-by-case assessment (not censorship), not in the sense that you made a mistake or so, but in the sense that, boys, pay attention, here's what happened to you, see that this doesn't happen again. That's the maximum, nothing more. But they certainly don't do it on the show. Oh, my God! If we go back to these people, I can't imagine Eri Klas watching Eri Klas from morning to night from eight to eight. He would not simply have done so and would not have taken on this assignment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U80	Laine Randjärv, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U81	Thank you. Well, now I've got a lot of business to attend to. Firstly, my older and more experienced party companion made a comment on Jaan Kross. Really, I have to apologize, he wasn't a socialist, he was on the moderate list. I thought it was the same thing, but it's not. That's another thing. Since you asked me, Igor, if I'd like the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to sign this regulation, I'm gonna say no, I wouldn't like any minister to sign it. In my opinion, in the first place, this ethics board is a big question mark. You didn't answer my question, what would happen if no one wanted to be there in a so-called assignment procedure? Would it not actually be reasonable for a certain number of people who have a voice in society to get together and think something without being assigned to it by law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U82	Yeah, then we can get back to the situation we have today. The fact is that the current national broadcasting community as a whole does not feel that it is surrounded by some sort of aura of moral problems. By the way, the law is also very liberal. I understand that a lot of lawyers, as well as members of the Riigikogu, have a question that we have it here, and if they don't come together, what happens then. I will only add one thing that I can say to you: then nothing can be done, and we will just get another section that doesn't really mean anything. We have a constitution full of these paragraphs, we have a third of the sections of the Constitution that no one knows, no one has heard about and that does not apply. So what? Life goes on. I say to you: the addition of this paragraph gives us the opportunity to make a commitment, it gives us the opportunity to do something to make today's world, the way it is, a little bit better. Even if this council comes together, and it is not likely that paradise will come to earth, there will still be problems and trouble, but we have taken a step forward. I think it could be done for even that. If it really turns out that you are, but no one agrees, there's nothing to demand, then it won't come and that's it. You can't force a human being to do community service under the threat of a prison. But I think there are plenty of people among us, though at the President's round tables, in all kinds of non-profits, and so on, who are socially sensitive and we respect, but who, whenever you ask them a question, will start the answer with the sentence 'Oh, now what am I? '. It's like this law would help with such modesty, huh, which now I do! It's very important for us to know what you think about it, it's not important to you, it's important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U83	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! I actually had an organizational question. Is there no internal standard of conduct or rule in national broadcasting today for analysing broadcasts, how to support colleagues' work, or how to make comments? Or have these moral and ethical values not been defined if a separate body or institution has to be created for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U85	There are two things that need to be distinguished. One thing is the culture inside the house of national broadcasting. There are also problems there, but they are dealt with by the National Broadcasting Council and I think he is relatively successful in dealing with them. The main problem is simply that the fragmentation of the traditional common broadcasting system has resulted in its consequences just as it has consequences in the banking sector, the dairy sector or anywhere. I am thinking, in particular, that the main production is project-based and programme-based, and the'single collective' that once existed on account of me, even the opinion paper or Rameto, where there were teamwork, or the editorial work of propaganda programmes, one of the most powerful at the time, is simply inevitably replaced by project-based work, and that is why this collective and shoulder feeling has slowly receded. I'm sure you'll get over it, but these are two different issues. One thing is internal, collegial relationships, etc. It is dealt with by the National Broadcasting Council, but in fact it should be dealt with even more by management and editorial and programme managers, it is like their subject. We are now talking about the moral assessment we are making and whether it is necessary to give a moral assessment of what goes from that house to either the Internet or the TV or the radio. We are still looking at this production, and we are now asking a very simple question about this production as people: is what they are transmitting good or bad? We do not mean whether it is professional, but whether it is good or not. That's the question. But within the institution, of course, relationships can be very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U86	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Igor Gräzin! I will expand the subject of this debate a little bit. As you know this area well, I ask you this: what do you think here in the European Union, which we are part of in every way, is the greatest ethical dilemma that should be resolved? There are many things that we have not yet discussed here, such as euthanasia, forced marriages, etc. What do you think is a serious issue in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U88	I'm sure there aren't. The Ethics Council that I'm talking about is going to deal with or can deal with those we stumble upon. Ethical questions are often not raised, but we stumble upon them. At one point, mankind just flinchs, stops and asks if it's the right thing I just did. There are also social institutions dealing with such issues, such as the Bioethics Council, which deals with issues related to organ transplantation, biomedical testing, etc. In short, our minds have gone far beyond our hearts and can make an assessment. Man is capable of doing far greater hogs than his heart can prevent. I think that the biggest ethical crisis in Europe, I understand, is that Europe is not able to understand what it is. The problem arose for the first time because of the Treaty of Lisbon, when a very narrow majority voted on the fact that the European Union is based on the values derived from the tradition and history of European Christian culture. In other words, at the moment when the European Union said that we were not culturally something in our own right, the issues of ethical relativism, such as the principle that everything is allowed, began to arise. The modern word for it is 'postmodernism', i.e. there are many truths, beauty is in the eyes of the viewer, etc. I would say that the problem facing the European Union is absolute relativism. This means that no matter is good to the end and no truth is real truth, evil is not evil, sin is not sin, virtue is not virtue. When all things become relative, everything is possible in this world. This is a very philosophical answer, but I think that all the problems we see here, starting with same-sex marriages, bioethical experiments, artificial extension of human life, euthanasia, etc., are actually asking the question of what our cultural space requires. If we can't answer that, they'll stay. But it's an awfully general question and very interesting
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U89	Marko Šorin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U90	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Today's discussion has been motivated by an interview on national television. In fact, I have not seen anyone in the public praise that it was a pleasure to see a person in tears, but on many occasions there were critical assessments of the same show. What does the waitress think, as a result of this pressure from the public, has the next Spectator programmes more reflected the use of the previous president's credit card and this week the arms trade? What's the assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U91	To be honest, since I have been with this group for ten years and I know very many of these people from both good and bad, I just want to say that my respect for them is so great that I am probably not mistaken when I say that there are very few people in this house who are going to avenge someone personally and even less those who are going to retaliate because of some professional mistakes or something like that. It's definitely, I guess, it's not. Speaking of morals, I would like to emphasise one more point in relation to this particular episode. Moral cracks often happen not always, but often inadvertently, and when you start making them up, it gets worse and it's bullshit. So I don't think your fears have the slightest basis, all the more so because they're extremely big professionals who go on some professional edge, see that once a week, and who in most cases we can't blame for anything. Since there was a question of a specific motivation, I would say that this particular episode became the motivation precisely because it was on Facebook that the talk was disbanded. It might even have stayed the way it was, and I would have forgotten it, I would have been angry for ten minutes, and then found out to be, but that's why it changed. This reminded me that the subject of ethical control has been mentioned repeatedly in the National Broadcasting Council, with the attitude being that we do not solve it in principle, and if the Riigikogu wants to do something else, then do it. But no, I don't think this is gonna happen here, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U92	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U93	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! I have such a simple question: will we not silence our own conscience by creating such an ethics council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U94	It's not the only way we're gonna do this. We will silence the voice of our conscience with all kinds of other crutches, and that is one of them. You're right about that, aren't you? But just so you don't calm down too much, I'm saying there's someone who can see the bottom of your heart, and there's no more crutches in front of him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U95	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have taught your colleagues another lesson on how to make the most of your time. Heidy Purga, Member of the Committee on Culture, will receive the floor for the presentation of the committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U96	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, My speech is certainly not as long and as impressive as my colleague. I am here as a representative of the Committee on Culture, and I refer to you what was discussed in the Committee on Culture on this draft. The draft was submitted to us on paper and the text was much more specific and awkward than the debate that has taken place today in the Chamber of the Riigikogu before my presentation. In the Committee on Culture, the draft law amending the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, which is numbered 351, was discussed at the meeting on 24 January. At this session, one of the initiators of the draft, invited the guest Igor Gräzin, explained his proposals. At the same meeting, the Deputy Chancellor of Arts Hillar Sein and Audiovisual Advisor Mati Kaalep attended as representatives of the Ministry of Culture. The Committee on Culture heard the views of the parties. The debate, I dare say, was very meaningful and concrete. The representatives of the Ministry of Culture presented the opinion of the Government of the Republic, which does not support the further processing of Bill 351. The members of the Committee on Culture also found during the debate that, although this is a topical and important issue, the draft text is not justified in its proposed form. The following opinions remained in the discussion of the members of the Cultural Commission: the draft would make the Ethics Council accountable to the executive power, which would restrict freedom of expression, and it would not be sufficiently explained why the current section of § 31 (2) of the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act should be amended, which says that the Management Board, on the proposal of the Ethics Council, will decide to establish an Ethics Council, which means that it is also possible to establish an Ethics Council on the basis of the current law. A vote was held in the Committee on Culture to close the first reading. The votes were divided as follows: 1 vote in favour and 5 against. The Commission therefore proposes to reject draft 351 at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U97	Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U98	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, I have such a simple question. Do you think the ERR is balanced, professional and impartial, so we don't have to change anything there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U99	I am at the remote as a member of the Committee on Culture, giving an explanation of the draft procedural arrangements and the debate that the Committee on Culture had on this particular draft. The issues of balancing were not discussed in such detail at this meeting of the Commission. I don't think I'm responsible to make my subjective assessment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U100	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U101	Thank you. If you do not want to give your opinion, perhaps you will recall how the Committee on Culture explained this, as you said, that the Ethics Council may restrict freedom of expression. Could the Committee on Culture explain how ethical behaviour and ethical performance could be a restriction on freedom of expression? Does ethics mean restricting freedom of expression?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U102	Thank you for your question. This question was actually a little more specific, you generalized a little bit. The Committee on Culture agreed with the Ministry of Culture that although journalists and press publications must be responsible in their stories for not publishing false statements or inappropriate values, and they must be guided by good journalistic practice, the scope of their responsibility should not be too broad. Violation of the honour of a person, including inappropriate values, is already illegal under the current law. It follows from what I want to say to you that the creation of an Ethics Council may therefore lead to restrictions on freedom of expression and the fear of journalists to express stories about society, if the Ethics Council can also condemn journalists for acts for which they would not be legally responsible. If, as a result of such condemnation, journalists may also be subjected to sanctions, there is a risk that the freedom of expression of the ERR will be unduly restricted. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U103	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U104	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I did not understand, from your limited explanations, that if the current law allows the establishment of an ethics council, did it really ever occur over time that such a need had never arisen and had the ethics advisor not made such a request to the board. Is that exactly what we were talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U105	Thank you very much for the clarification. At this committee meeting, I personally asked Hillar Seina why the proposal in question in 2012 to establish an independent media regulator institution stood still somewhere. Hillar Sein explained that this was a proposal by the Minister of Culture at the time, which had not been carried out, and the Ministry of Culture had not developed a position on this issue. A parallel can be drawn with the current Technical Surveillance Authority, which regulates the media sector. He then took part in the tasks planned in this proposal. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U106	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U107	I am asking because, unfortunately, I could not listen to the debate that took place in the Commission. But since you said that what was decided during the debate largely coincided with the Ministry's opinion, I just apologize if I ask the same question. There was a sentence here that, if this ethics council is now set up, it will be more subordinate to the executive. How, then, is it subject to the executive power even more than it is now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U108	After all, this topic came through here several times today when you were on the board and the members of the Riigikogu asked questions. I mean, if a minister in his administration appoints this Ethics Council and it becomes operational, then the Ethics Council will have a responsibility to this area and to this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U109	Thank you, honored waitress. There are no more questions than Igor Gräzin's second question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U110	I wanted to be more specific. This topic now became very broad, we are no longer talking about broadcasting, we are now talking about the entire Republic of Estonia under the National Broadcasting Act. Does this mean that the appointment procedure also determines the liability procedure? We put state companies, public limited companies Eesti Energia, the Port of Tallinn etc. Is it that the denominator is responsible? Is that the general principle that was introduced here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U111	Thank you for your question, Mr Igor Gräzin. We did not go into the details of the area of designation legally in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U112	Peter Ernits. The name came up again. Did the manager misunderstand the clue, or was it a technical glitch?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U113	Good manager! I wanted to ask my colleague Gräzin a question, but I was away from the floor for a while. I'm still asking. Igor Gräzin said that Donald Trumpi has not been quite ethically addressed. Do you agree that maybe the Riigikogu should set up a support group for Donald Trump?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U114	Mr Ernits, I believe that the Member has free rein to act within his rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U115	After a little break, I'll make sure there's no more questions. Thank you, dear waitress. I am opening negotiations because the political groups have expressed their wish for this. Martin Helme, representative of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U116	Mr. Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a lot of talk about ethics now. For ethical violations on the ERR news as well as on all other programmes, you can read a long list. For example, I can recall how the ERR news on its own initiative placed a picture of the mass grave on the EKRE news stories after the elections two years ago, or, let's say, a bunch of people shot, even though it had nothing to do with the news. As a member of the Council, I have repeatedly pointed out how biased the news story has been and how it is, in fact, an institutional bias. Our party member Jaak Madison has already pointed out how the news about Donald Trump consistently refers to the United States' major publications, all of which have officially linked themselves to Clinton's supporters at editorial level. But we're being presented as neutral news. I'm not gonna go long on what key Brexit's campaign or a summary of it is, because it's completely hopeless. Speaking of bias, in the spring of last year, when the Ethics Advisor made his presentation, I pointed out in the Council how biased it is, for example, to the selection of guests for the Forum. When five shows took place at the beginning of 2016, the Free Party, I don't know what you deserved the goodwill of the performers, was in all five shows, the soccer was fourth, the IRL was fourth, the Reform Party in three, the Centre Party in three and the EKRE in only one show. It was made clear to me how stupid I am because it was explained to me that none of these five shows were one where we had something to say. The beginning of this year has not been much better. Four shows have taken place, the Reform Party has been present four times, the Free Party three times, the IRL three times, the Centre Party three times, the two times, and we once again. Maybe it's no use even if you point out there's some kind of mistake in there, there's not gonna be a correction. My patience was completely interrupted by the adoption by the ERR Council in spring of a procedure for recording the presidential election. It was a very decent procedure that ensured equal treatment of candidates and was based on journalistic ethics. But when it became a real campaign, it was just ruined. They just broke it. The ethical advisor, however, found that there was nothing wrong, everything was fine. In all these cases, the ethical advisor has found that everything is fine. I could bring you a long list, but in the eight minutes I've been given, the complaints against the ERR for the Family and Tradition Protection of the SA, about which Ethical Advisor Tammerk has almost always found that everything is fine, everything is fine, there is no violation. Igor Gräzin spoke at length about ethics. The question is that according to ERR rules, the ethics advisor is actually monitoring the respect of press ethics. I would point out that I myself have worked as a journalist for several years and in several publications. The first rule of journalistic ethics and the first thing that was made clear to me is the importance of news. It may have a number of parameters, such as how close the events are to the news, or how topical it is. But the first thing is the importance of the news. I'm about to get to Marianne Mikkon and Censorship. When we talk about censorship, it's important not to talk about it. Let's get the same Forum show. If one party is systematically invited less than the others, it is one of the possible forms of censorship. Unless there is talk of crime involving Syrian refugees or immigrants in Estonia or Sweden, this is also a form of censorship. If there is no news that does not fit the prevailing world view of the editorial board of this publication, it is either self-censorship or quite censorship, I do not know how to say it, and it would take too long to discuss it now, but it is also a form of censorship. Balance is very important. In the news you have to let both parties talk, you have to take a comment from both parties, or you have to make claims from both parties. If you can't do it, you're not a professional journalist. Things must be pretty scary when even a basic liberal like Neeme Raud, a very professional journalist, leaves the news anchor of the 'Actual Camera'. That's not a good sign. If anyone thinks that I, as a member of the Council or an active politician or any commentator at all, think that I should be able to intervene specifically in the work of the programme, in the choice of one or the other news, or in the way the news is recorded, no, absolutely not. The problem is that by now it is evident to all of us that this internal control mechanism, in the form of an ethical advisor in the ERR, is not working. He does not really make a fair assessment, but has clearly chosen the right-holder, the cover-up or, Igor said more politely, the role of the legal consul. It's his job to explain that you're all stupid, you don't get it right, even though everything's fine. But the rest of us see that it's not good. Igor suggests that we give goodness the opportunity to raise its head in the world. Let's give it a chance. I'm not quite sure it's actually going to help, but maybe it'd be a little useful, even in terms of the feedback the editors get. Right now, they're patting on their shoulder and they're saying, "Don't pay attention, let those guys hang out there." It's the same as the presidential election. The shame will pass, but the result of the election will be for the next five years. After the elections you can play journalists again, but during the campaign you have to do what is necessary to ensure that the result is the right one. The shame will pass, but the result will remain. There's something we could do about it, even what the bill says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U117	Toomas Vitsut on behalf of the Estonian Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, The discussion of this draft has developed today as a matter of importance for the discussion of a national issue. This debate has, in my opinion, been enjoyable. If the discussions on all the drafts were like this, I think we could start selling tickets to the Riigikogu, because it would be interesting to follow these discussions. My personal view of this bill is that I am in favour of it. I was ready to sign it, too, because I think it's going to make some pretty important changes. To sum up very briefly what should be done according to this draft, I say that instead of an ethical advisor, instead of an individual, we would have an ethics council, a collegial body, as if instead of an independent ethics advisor now, I believe that a much more independent collegial body and the area of competence would be extended. Although this body does not appear to be punishing anyone, during today's debate it may have been felt that the assessments that this Council gives to the extent of its competence have a very important impact. Until then, I believe that the ethics council was actually accused of restricting the freedom of expression of journalists. I do not quite understand this logic, because when someone's work is evaluated, how will it restrict the freedom of expression of this worker? In short, there would be a more influential, independent and impartial institution. In my opinion, the point of this whole thing or today's debate is not so much whether this institution is created or not, but what stands out to me is to maintain the status quo in Estonian society, in small and corporate Estonian society. If we look at the views on this bill, whether on the right or on the left side of the hall, the difference between them does not run in parties but rather in persons. I have the impression that the creation of institutions that are independent is feared in Estonian society. If someone is trying to create an institution that is unrelated to anyone and is not under the influence of anyone, it turns out that there are a whole range of people who are afraid of it. As I am putting forward a group position here, I must say that this draft is unfortunately not supported by the group, although I personally would be happy to vote in favour of it. I'm a team player and I'm just not voting this time, but I hope in my heart that this discussion with today's sitting will not end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U119	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U120	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, All of us in our lives have felt that the press is somehow hurting, superficial, indifferent, and subjective, including in the worldview. When I wonder if I, for example, have felt this way about the ERR, I recall that a journalist in charge of the ERR recently recalled in a radio comment how I had sent an email five years ago, or even seven years ago, to a journalist in an ambiguous e-mail. He recalled this as a lesson in the way a politician intervenes in the press. For me, it was a pretty disgusting experience. I wrote this e-mail to a friend and partner in good faith that he understands my disappointment and that I still support the institution. However, journalists felt it was necessary to call the editorial team together and decided that the politician was threatening to withdraw the support. It was, in my opinion, just like the preventive aggression that sometimes happens in the press, it's completely unnecessary to exhibit your own uniform. But if you ask if the ERR is in any way biased, malicious or unethical, my personal opinion is still that, no, he is still a partner to me, and I am grateful to him as a client. But the big problem with this bill is that the line between politics and ethics is one big minefield where we shouldn't put ourselves too much. One reason is that we ourselves are superficial, indifferent and subjective when talking about very different subjects. This was confirmed by today's debate here. Several examples were of how it is proven that there is actually a need to intervene in the content of programmes, and yet it has become clear that someone has some kind of world view in the press, and that is all unacceptable because we have a different view of the world. I think it was confirmation that we shouldn't poke and put an end to this shit. This discussion should be concluded today, I think, contrary to the previous speaker. I also find those people whom Igor referred to as particularly high moral and ethical figures who have to sell this ethics in some way very often subjective, superficial and indifferent. They have shown this in their behavior. Man is imperfect in nature, and we should not force ourselves to seek this perfection anywhere. The big picture, once again, is that the authorities must be divorced. The press must certainly be separated from politics in our view, even though we are their object and material. Any attempts here to regulate something and to settle it will end with regrettable and embarrassing results. Let's stay out of this! The press has the right to self-regulation and the duty to do so. We hope that they will do better in the future, or that the whole press will do at least as well as I think the ERR has done in general. To conclude, I am representing both my own opinion and the opinion of the group, saying that let us not poke at this issue and let us not support this draft. This is going to stink when politicians go to it. Even if we have a disappointment in our hearts over some cases, this is not due to any systematic problem. Good luck with the press! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U121	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U122	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen and very good drafters. Several thoughts have already sounded, but one line I'm trying to highlight in my report. I dare say that there is a very beautiful draft before us, for which I would like to thank the performers sincerely. The questions about the functioning of national broadcasting concern all of us and it is likely that we all want national broadcasting to be the top of the Estonian press in substantive, formal and ethical terms. We want the data published in the press to be reliable and the press itself to be balanced and, at the same time, rigorously analytic. These are the same things that have already been mentioned. Thus, ethical excellence should be an integral part of national broadcasting. It seems to me that the basic principles should be the most common ethical principles in the world, whether it be the 'behaviour' known to us all as you want others to behave with you, 'the restriction of freedom can only be to do harm to another' or 'beheld in nature should be based on awe before life'. You recognized the words of Confucius, John Stuart Mill and Albert Schweitzer on this list. At first glance, it seems that the Ethics Council would indeed be more competent and independent than the Ethics Advisor to assess the error of these principles. I do not deny, as the most famous Thomas admitted a little while ago, that I too have been very close to supporting the bill. I am also quite sure that the line between supporting this draft and not supporting it does not run along political parties, but can be approached differently. I'm gonna do a poetic digression and come back to the beauty of this bill. Sometimes it's that aesthetically beautiful thing doesn't work best. I believe that while going to Stockholm, many have entered the Vasa Museum, where a ship built for the pride of the Swedish Navy is displayed, which went down on its first trip in 1628. The investigation, why this happened, did not provide a clear answer, even though the client's desire to build the most beautiful and beautiful ship for his time was constantly under discussion. The pursuit of beauty turned out to be quite dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to imagine the ethics council we are creating. First of all, it should include people who are well-known in society, whose word has weight in ethical matters, they probably should not have been involved in any political party at least in recent years, they should be clean of scandals, etc. I, by the way, very much liked the wish in the bill that it should not include those who serve bread by teaching ethics. Estonia is small and I think that the people who meet these criteria may be a hundred, probably even less. I don't think of myself as a special expert in ethics, but I have some idea of possible candidates, all the more so since when I spoke to Igor Gräzini on the bill, I realized what kind of people he imagines in this council. So I wrote to three people. One of them, Igor, was the one we were talking about. I got two answers, one yes, one definitely no. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U123	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U124	The most influential argument for me was the summary assessment of the candidate who said 'no': 'I think the Ethics Adviser has done very well with the role of his arbitrator. [---] People with moral authority in the present society, if any, need to keep the lowest possible profile so that even the authority they probably have does not lead to the market. " This is the harsh truth in the post - truth world that has been mentioned here today on many occasions. I will read this quote once again: 'People with moral authority in the present society, if any, must keep as low a profile as possible so that not even the authority that they probably have will bring to the market. " Perhaps it would be better if, at least for the time being, we gave up the creation of an ethics council, the creation of which is also provided by the current law, and the moral beacons of our society. In the case of serious infringements, they will say their word anyway. Once again, this is not a draft that could be decided on a specific 'no' and 'yes' scale. For example, I think that 40% of me says yes to this bill, 60% says no. Dear drafters, thank you once again for a beautiful draft. I sincerely regret that rationality is cruel to beauty this time and does not allow support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U125	On behalf of the Group of the Maire Aunaste Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U126	Ladies and gentlemen, Igor also asked me to sign this bill. We talked for quite a while, and the same show that we have been talking about here today, which was on the air in December and where Mihkel Kärmas interviewed Jüri Rata. Igor said it was unethical. Luckily, I had seen it, and I realized that I saw it differently. It's not because I like tears to be pulled out. But why did I think otherwise than Igor? Because it seemed to me that Mihkel Kärmas did his interview very well and professionally, and I didn't see anything unethical there. I'll come back to the beginning of your performance, Igor. You started with the Mihkel Kärmas interview. Because of the unfortunate coincidence, a few weeks later, on New Year's Eve, there was another interview with Jüri Ratas. He was interviewed by jokers. When you said, Igor, no one on the 'Spectator' team, doing this interview, didn't stand up or pull the wire out of the wall, and they were therefore, in a word, collectively unethical, the thing that happened to the end of the year interview was that the interview wasn't on the air yet, it was only recorded in Jüri Ratas's office when I got a call from a team representative. He said that they had all worked on television for 30 or more years and had seen absolutely everything, but as horrible interviews as the one they had been forced to pick up that day, they had never seen. He said, "We are so ashamed, and you, Maire, must do something. " It shows that there is something very bad about communication with one another in this organization. If I only need to call because I dare call the editor-in-chief and tell him to listen, Heidi, check this show out first, just in case, it's like there's a link missing. And this shortage has arisen in decades. I went on television in 1983, just like Marianne did. It was such a time when no small interview I'm talking about a few long shows that didn't get on the air so many people wouldn't have gone through before. We had screens in all our editorials, and we also looked through all the other editorials and journalists before going on the air. At that time, of course, political errors were sought first, but they were also ordered to reverse the program because of ethical mistakes. Now, unfortunately, in this house, no one sees other editorial programs until on the air, time has just changed so much. We had a review meeting. They gave orders once a week, we came to the meeting room and talked about what we had seen on the air last week. It's all gone now. On this New Year's Eve, two very valued jokers interviewed the Prime Minister who hadn't worked for another month. Actually, it was an interview with Taavi Clothes. Those guys with wires in their ears heard the editors asking questions, and they heard them for the first time. Questions were prepared at night against the recording. Everyone was blinded except the two editors who had prepared the show. So the first question was, 'Mr. Clothes, you're about to have another baby. " There was an awfully embarrassing silence. The boys were forced to ask for a second time. There was nothing funny about it, and George finally turned out really well. When he was told that, Mr. Clothes, you were about to have another child, Jüri said that there were three children in his family. That was supposed to be funny. It was actually the only one left in those embarrassing cuts, because otherwise it wouldn't have been possible to start the show. But I heard what else was there. These sections were removed during assembly. So something was saved in that house after all. But when I called Heidi Pruuli, I also said that, since the crew was so embarrassed, couldn't it be done, for example, that Allikmaa or someone else would go to those workers who have a very important part in making the show, and would also apologise to them. Of course, no one did. Now I say, instead of the ethics council that we are talking about here today, there could be another person in that house who is interested in programmes that care about the viewer and the maker of the show. If the show has already been on the air and then it starts to evaluate the Ethics Council, then it has a very small efficiency, because the bad is already done, the viewer has already been disturbed, and not only the viewer, but also the player. When you said, Igor, that you will remember ten years later how Jaak Salumets judged you, only a one-worded estimate that it was bad that you did, now imagine what you will feel about the performers when every week they will be judged by very high moral and professional levels of people. You realize that if you have that one word in your mind for ten years, you'll get those who do it spiritually just be destroyed. That is why there can be no way to be in favour of any new organisation to be created. Well, I appreciate the press. If there is now the election of the new Chairman of the Board, then the ERR Board will have the opportunity to ask candidates the questions to find out how ethical they are, how good they are and whether they are only interested in ratings and money on programmes, or what kind of programmes they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U127	Thank you. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U128	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to thank the initiators of the draft law. As this debate in this Chamber has shown today, the issue is very serious and we all feel this problem in one way or another, not only in the context of Estonian National Broadcasting, but I think and dare say that in society as a whole too. Juhan Peegel, teacher of both myself and several others in this hall, once taught that the press is part of Estonian culture, and the press has always been the one who created Estonian culture in the best part of the press, but by creating this cultural framework, he has, above all, kept and raised people. This has been the greatest role of the Estonian journalist of all time; it is his responsibility and importance that he has tried to do what is best for society and for the person living in this society. It has been education, entrepreneurialism or upbringing, but raising society through the press has taken place since the beginning of time. Perhaps because the press had felt this responsibility and the journalists had assumed this responsibility, the pre-war Republic of Estonia developed into a new flagship of the State when the newspapers had become profit-seeking companies in particular. Since 1926 the broadcasting of the State became the institution in Estonian society, which was expected to have an ethical attitude, a kind of truth was expected, but something else was expected, it was expected that the broadcasting of the State would be honest and respect the people of its society. In my opinion, this bill, which four of us have initiated here in the Riigikogu, does not so much want to create a single ethics council for national broadcasting, as it is kind of a beacon of hope, a collection of which we believe in the word. We know that these people do not rely on self-interest, political attitudes or anything else that disappears and is actually very one day, but they see these human permanence values that, unfortunately, are falling right often out of hand in all day's visits and struggles and which we have to admit, even in school and even in education, are less and less spoken about. Could this whole thing do it, and would it want to do it? I think the people who would be willing to be these moral beacons are definitely there. I think it is the desire of many of them not to remain silent and they are not afraid that they will be destroyed or hurt themselves. It is a matter of society itself; it is the strength of society itself, whether it perceives these values and whether it wants to hold them. So I see not so much a controller or a limiter of the ERR in the composition of the Ethics Council, as the desire to keep Estonian culture in society in a very broad sense, once again, with their fundamental values and their deep human desires, which must be firmly established in the same society. So the Free Party Group supports the draft, although this initiative to set up the Council could have come from the ERR itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-02-07_U129	Dear Riigikogu, the negotiations are over. As regards draft 351, the lead committee has decided to reject it at first reading. Under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we have to vote on this. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the leading committee 351 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 38 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 15 against and 2 abstentions. The proposal was supported and bill 351 falls out of the procedure. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.35 p.m.
