ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 17th working week of the V plenary session. And let's start with the good wishes: Happy New Year to Urve Tiidu! [[Let's hear it.]] Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. I don't see that wish. Incoming check, please! 82 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U2	Today's first item is the second reading of Bill 430 of the Act on the Ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America. For the presentation, I invite the Chair of the National Defence Commission, Hannes Hanso, whom I would like to ask to listen respectfully.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U3	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Good morning. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft under discussion, including on 17 April, and the first reading of the draft was completed on 11 May. No proposals were received by the deadline of 24 May at 5.15 p.m. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 29 May and then approved by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum. The text of the second reading of the draft is essentially identical to the text of the first reading, as the Committee on National Defence did not make any linguistic clarification of the draft either. However, I will also say a few words about the agreement attached to the draft. The purpose of the agreement is to promote security and defence cooperation between the Republic of Estonia and the United States of America. It concerns the status of the armed forces of the United States of America, its members, civilian formation, dependants and contractual partners and their employees when they participate in defence cooperation in Estonia. A lot of similar contracts have been made, it's nothing rare. In the Baltic countries, the Latvian and Lithuanian Parliaments have ratified an agreement on this subject • Lithuania did so in February of this year and in March of this year, Latvia did so in March of this year. Now the procedural decisions and proposals of the National Defence Committee. At its meeting on 29 May, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 6 June, i.e. today. On the basis of § 115 of the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act, the Commission also decided by consensus to propose a final vote on the draft at second reading and to adopt it as a law. I would remind everyone in attendance that the bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U4	Given the voices in the hall, there should be a great deal to ask. The manager is wrong, no questions asked. Would you like to open negotiations? This is a second reading, i.e. everyone can take the floor. There's no call. The proposal of the commission is to put draft 430 to the final vote, which obliges us to invite the rest of the Riigikogu members to the Chamber. There were no amendments to the draft, which is why we can go to the final vote, but since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of draft 430 as a law, we will do a verification of the presence. The presence check proved that 85 members of the Riigikogu are present. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America 430. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the national delegation voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft Act on the ratification of the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U5	The second item is the second reading of draft 410 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Principles of Earthyard Policy 2050' presented by the Government of the Republic. Mr Kalle Palling, vice-chairman of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 20 March and also by the Government of the Republic. The first reading was completed on 19 April and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 4 May. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on the Environment has decided to propose two amendments. During the period between the first and second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been dealt with twice at the Commission's meeting: 2 May and 15 May. The representatives of the Estonian Chamber of Environmental Associations, the Environmental Law Centre, the Estonian Society of Planners, the Estonian Academy of Sciences, the Association of Estonian Mining Industries Enterprises, the National Audit Office, the Estonian Renewable Energy Chamber and Eesti Energia AS participated in our meeting on 2 May. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also participated. On 15 May, representatives of the Department of Rural Development of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the meeting, the proposals submitted by the Estonian Environmental Associations Koja, the Estonian Environmental Law Centre and Eesti Energia AS for amending the draft were discussed. I will give a brief overview of these amendments. Amendment 1 This Commission proposal deletes the word 'acceptance' in the title of the draft text and the second sentence in the text as follows: to approve the 'fundamentals of the land policy up to 2050'. This amendment follows from § 20 (1) of the State Budget Act, according to which the Riigikogu adopts the fundamentals of politics and does not approve them. The second amendment amends the first sentence of the second paragraph of Title 2 of the draft and replaces the word 'again' with'repeated'. Earlier use of words may have led to a false understanding that a pre-extraction situation must be restored, which is not always possible and also necessary. A number of linguistic clarifications have been made in the draft, as usual, which in no case alters the substance of the draft. The procedural decisions and proposals of the commission are as follows: At its meeting on 15 May, the Committee on the Environment decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading and to propose a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U7	Thank you too, dear waitress. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U8	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Members, Under the leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and in cooperation with other ministries, other public authorities and a wide range of stakeholders, a draft development document entitled The Fundamentals of Earthyard Policy up to 2050 was drawn up. This document defines the long-term vision for the use and protection of the land in the country that has not yet been in place, and the principles and trends supporting its implementation. Due to the fragmentation of the rural area and the lack of a coherent policy framework, Estonia has not yet had a coherent and comprehensive vision for developing the field. By drawing up the fundamentals of the ground policy, it is a desire to determine the role and interest of the Republic of Estonia as the main owner of the ground and mineral resources in the exploration of the earth, in the exploitation and use of the earth and mineral resources. Under the fundamentals of the policy of the earth, the resources of the ground and the resources of the earth refer to the entire potential of the earth, to the earth's surface as ground support necessary for the maintenance and maintenance of the ground cover, to the carriage of buildings and to the protection of natural objects and monuments, and to the earth's surface as a building environment used for the construction of tunnels, tanks, etc. of underground facilities, as well as to groundwater and underground heat. What, then, is the vision agreed between the ministries in principle? The earth's surface and its natural resources will be studied and used as much as possible in a creative way for Estonian society, taking into account environmental social, economic, geological and security aspects. The country-wide objective is as follows: Estonia's long-term goal in the field of land is to ensure the science-based management and use of land resources that are environmentally friendly to the country's economic growth and resource efficiency and preserve human health. At the same time, it is important to reduce dependence on non-renewable natural resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U9	Honourable waitress! It's like there's always a rumor in the ground, which makes the waitress questioning the idea of passing on. Once again, let's watch and listen to the waitress! Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U10	We have come to developments that are also reasonable to reject from this remote control. As the most important developments, I would highlight the drawing up and implementation of a ground research and base mapping plan, the review of the mechanisms for taking and distributing public revenue, the requirement to ensure appropriate compensation for externalities associated with the use of resources. Resources must be used without endangering the health and well-being of people without compromising them, while at the same time applying mitigation measures to mitigate disruptive effects and directing businesses towards respecting the principles of clean and innovative technologies and the circular economy. In the context of the sector's sustainability, we also consider it essential to organise learning, research, implementation and development in the best way and to contribute to raising public awareness. A cross-cutting principle has been defined as the role and initiative of the state to ensure the development of the sector and to overcome the mid-term recession. This is more directly linked to the division of sectoral tasks between the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as to the establishment of a national geology service, which allows, among other things, the implementation of previously mentioned plans to collect and provide sectoral information and advice to both the state and the private sector as a whole. Finally, on implementation, I would like to mention that the fundamentals of the ground policy are the basic document for sectoral strategies and legislation and for the drafting of other development documents and legislation relating to the field of ground issues. Horizontally, the fundamentals of ground policy have the greatest impact on the planning of economic development and education and spatial planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U11	As there are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. Two proposals have been put forward to amend draft 410, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the lead committee has decided to take full account of it. Another amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The 410 amendments to the draft have been examined and we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Government of the Republic, 'Principles of Earthyard Policy until 2050'. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour and 7 against, with no abstentions. The draft of the decision of the Riigikogu submitted by the Government of the Republic 'Principles of Earthyard Policy 2050' has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U12	The third item is the first reading of draft 471 of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. I would like to present a speech chair with Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U13	Honorable manager! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Due to the recent changes in the political party's governance, the Free Party Group has discussed the meaningful division of labour between its members and found it appropriate to relieve the party chairman of the double burden on committees. Andres Herkel is ready to join the Special Committee on Corruption. I think that because of both the very long standing in the Riigikogu and the good and honest renome, Andres Herkel is very well suited to membership of the Special Committee against Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U14	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'll open negotiations if you want me to. Sorry, we are dealing with first reading, and so we have another rapporteur, Mr Aas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U15	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this crucial issue on Monday, 29 May. The committee was chaired by Ken-Marti Vaher, attended by Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Ivari Padar, Henn Põlluaas, who was a replacement for Jaak Madison, Kalle Laane, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits. Helmut Hallemaa was absent. Agenda item 2 was a draft which we are discussing here today: a draft amendment to the Riigikogu's decision 'Constitution of a Special Committee against Corruption' aimed at replacing Artur Talvik and choosing Andres Herkel in his place. In the Commission, Lauri Luik asked what led to this change. As we have just heard, this is due to the change of chairman of the Free Party and consequently to the change of organisation of work. Jüri Adams gave explanations on behalf of the Free Party. The debate did not arise, everything was understandable and it seemed logical. It was therefore decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by 6 June 2017, proposing to put the draft to the final vote and appoint Mr Arto Aas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. All decisions were made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U16	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak, I will close the negotiations without opening them. There were no amendments to the draft, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of a Special Committee against Corruption' by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 471. Please take a stand and vote. 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Group of the Estonian Free Party has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U17	The fourth item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Gambling Tax Board, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I would like to present the Chair of the Finance Committee to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U18	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, On 17 April, the Committee on Monetary Affairs received a letter from the Minister for Education and Science asking for a draft decision to be initiated in order to replace one member in the Gambling Tax Board. The draft decision was initiated on 16 May. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 26 May at the start of the procedure. We process this draft in accordance with § 114 (1) of our Home and Working Procedures Act, according to which only one reading is required. On the 29th day, the Commission discussed the draft at its regular meeting and adopted the decision to propose that the draft be sent to the Chamber today and put to the final vote. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur. Now to the contents. According to § 7 (4) of the Gambling Tax Act, the Council is formed by the Riigikogu. It has six members of the Riigikogu and one representative of three ministries: the Ministry of Education and Research, Culture and Social Affairs. Only we have the competence to replace people on the council. Now Janar Holm should leave and Chancellor Tea Varrak will take his place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U19	One question for you. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U20	Thank you. Good waitress! The Reform Party is currently the only party with no representative on the Gambling Tax Council, the Centre Party has two representatives. Has it recently been discussed when the representative of the Reform Party will be appointed to the Council again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U21	No, that's not the subject we've been discussing. I think the Committee on Monetary Affairs has much more important things to discuss right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U22	The question has been answered. No further questions. Is there a wish to open negotiations? There's no call. There were no amendments to the 469th draft, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Gambling Tax Council, tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, draft 469. Please take a stand and vote. 72 votes in favour and 2 members of the Riigikogu against. The draft decision of the Riigikogu "Announcement of a member of the Gambling Tax Board" submitted by the Monetary Committee has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U23	The fifth item is the second reading of draft 431 of the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic and the Act amending the Law on National Defence (Implementing the Agreement on Defence Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America). Mr Hanso, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U24	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Good vice chairman! It is now much easier for me to be before you because the Riigikogu has just ratified the agreement on defence cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the United States of America, which is being implemented by the draft under discussion. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft on 17 April and the first reading of the draft was completed here on 11 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was 5.15 p.m. on 24 May. No amendments were tabled at that time. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 29 May, where the Commission made two linguistic clarifications and one technical correction of the second reading text. The initiator of the draft act supports the linguistic clarifications of the National Defence Commission as well as the technical correction of the norm. The draft introduces a VAT exemption and refund for professional defence cooperation resulting from the implementation of the agreement and specifies the number of bodies and persons involved in the tax credit. When assessing the impact of the tax exemptions introduced by the bill, it must be taken into account that the loss of financial income is inextricably accompanied by national defence benefits for the Republic of Estonia. Account must also be taken of the increasing demand for services and goods by those receiving the tax credit and its positive impact on employment in our country. The draft supports defence cooperation within NATO and, within the framework of the concept of collective self-defence, promotes the arrival and long-term stay of the armed forces units of the Allied States in Estonia. The procedural decisions and proposals of the National Defence Committee to the members of the honourable Riigikogu are as follows: At its meeting on 29 May, the Commission approved by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum and decided also by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, including by 6 June. At the meeting of 29 May, the Commission also decided by consensus to propose that the Riigikogu conclude the second reading of the draft. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U25	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Mr Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U26	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As a former Minister for Defence and Chairman of the current Commission, you will certainly agree with me that the presence of NATO allies in Estonia, both in general and in particular in the United States, is a very important part of our security guarantee. Therefore, the first item on the agenda today, as well as the draft that you are currently presenting, are absolutely important points. As you rightly said, this item is linked to the first item on the agenda, and my question is about the interesting movement that I noticed before and after the vote on the first item. In particular, some of your coalition partners stood up and left the hall before the vote on the first point, the defence agreement with the United States. After the vote, they returned to the hall. My question is: is it talking about different views in the coalition, or was it agreed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U27	Thank you. Since I'm sitting in front of the hall relatively, unfortunately, I didn't see them moving. But if there was a movement, I am at least glad that 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the bill. As we both know, it is extremely important from the point of view of the allied relations of the Republic of Estonia, so that we can get this thing over with, just as our colleagues from Latvia and Lithuania and a whole series of other NATO Member States have become. I don't know anything about a deal. That's my answer. Each person can be asked separately what he did at the time of the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U28	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U29	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Did it not make sense in the Commission that the financing of exempt national defence is immoral? National defence is funded by taxes, and now we say you get money and you get a tax credit. It doesn't make any sense. Didn't the thought of losing a relic like this flash in the head?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U30	I didn't blink, there'd be a short answer. At least in categories such as'moral' or 'imoral' certainly not. I would like to remind you once again that all the money that the United States is spending here, for example, by shopping here and ordering some kind of service, they can spend it, not paying VAT. I think this is extremely important in terms of security and the use of 100% of this money. I rather think it is most welcome that such a concession is being granted. And this, of course, does not concern the procurement of the defence forces of the Republic of Estonia or the purchase of services which are subject to the normal rules as usual.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U31	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U32	Thank you. Good waitress! I didn't like this place in your report. This leads to the conclusion that taxes have to be abolished at all, because all this money then circulates, etc. In fact, taxes have the idea that some proportional share of consumption goes to the state and can finance national defence and much more. This relic is certainly feudal. This principle also exists for other ambassadors, as well as NATO, but I personally have previously rejected it and successfully rejected it. Are you really, as chairman of the National Defence Commission and you, as a Social Democrat, saying that it is very welcome if we lose taxes and people are able to buy more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U33	Well, to call this a feudal principle, it sounds pretty perverse. Foreign embassies in Estonia are also exempt from paying VAT on receiving certain services. It's a long tradition. And when it comes to buying our allies here, for example, going to the store and buying for a million euros of goods and then paying VAT back to the United States, is that a wise idea or not? I think it's smarter if they can spend all these resources here. And I don't think it's immoral or feudal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U34	No more questions for the waitress. I'll open negotiations if I like. There are no requests to speak. No amendments were tabled to draft 431. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U35	Next item: Second reading of draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair to Toomas Väinaste, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U36	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft Act amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act on 10 April 2017. The first reading took place on 9 May 2017. No proposals were tabled by the deadline of 23 May. The Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its meeting on 29 May and decided to propose two amendments. First, clarification of the mandate rule. The amendment clarifies the mandate given to the Minister responsible for the field by the Sport Act, under which he is entitled to lay down the procedure for allocating the funds allocated from the state budget to the Ministry of Culture in support of sport. The amendment complements the original text of the draft, which does not contain an amendment to that provision. The current wording of the mandate rule does not give rise to an explicit basis for the regulation to regulate the organisation of the award of a specific grant. According to a draft initiated by the Government of the Republic, this regulation will be implemented not only by the Minister of Culture but also by the Estonian Olympic Committee, with which it is planned to conclude an administrative agreement, which will transfer the power to grant support to sports federations. For reasons of legal clarity, it is necessary to specify the scope of the mandate rule in that Regulation and to establish that that Regulation regulates not only the general principles of allocation of funds for sport support but also the procedures for applying for a specific grant, the assessment of the applicant and the award of the grant. Amendment 2 is simply a technical amendment to the norm. It amends the provision of the Administrative Cooperation Act. On 29 May 2017, the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft for the second reading of 423 on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 6 June and to propose that the plenary session conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U37	Lauri Luik, please ask your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U38	Thank you. Good waitress! The term "sports federation" and "sports associations" and "sport organisations" are used in this text. In the case of sport federations, it is somewhat understandable how the foundations of their funding are created. Different conditions will be taken into account, such as the bill, how many medals have been won from the title competitions, etc. But how does this law regulate the financing of other sports associations, such as the Estonian School Sports Association? Young people don't go to the title competitions, and they don't serve medals there. Did you discuss how this scheme fits in with the funding of other sports organisations, therefore not sports federations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U39	That's what the Ministry of Culture is all about. As stated in this draft, the Ministry of Culture transfers powers to other organisations competent to do so. That's got nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U40	Lauri Luik, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U41	Thank you. Do you see a danger in this when the Ministry of Culture gives this decision to other decision-makers? We actually mean the Estonian Olympic Committee, don't we? Do you see the danger of these bases becoming less transparent than they are now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U42	I can express the position of the Committee on Culture. Rather, we take the opposite view. They're more up-to-date and competent. So it's more like it's gonna be fairer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U43	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. No requests have been received. Two amendments to the draft 423 have been tabled. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 423. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U44	The seventh item is the second reading of the draft Public Procurement Act 450. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U45	Good manager and members of the Riigikogu! The Economic Commission launched a draft Public Procurement Act on 4 May. The first reading of the draft act took place in the Riigikogu's plenary session on 10 May and the first reading was closed. The main objective of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act is to transpose three European Union Directives: the Classical Directive, the Networking Directive and the Concessions Directive, which modernise the organisation of public procurement and make it more flexible, while reducing the time and cost of both contracting authorities and tenderers. At its meeting on 16 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed amendments and took procedural decisions. The Commission adopted a decision to send a draft Public Procurement Act 450 to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 6 June 2017 with a proposal to terminate the second reading and, when the second reading is completed, to carry out a third reading on 14 May and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U46	You have questions too. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Please explain why the business proposals concerning excessive control and reduction of outsourcing, i.e. reduction of red tape, have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U48	Thank you for a good question. On the contrary, we took their proposal into account. The amendment No 13 specifies what may and may not be requested: 'In the case of a works contract and a works concession contract, the contracting authority shall, on the basis of a request for information from the subcontractor involved in the performance of the contract, provide him with information as to whether the works certified as carried out by the subcontractor have been paid to the tenderer to the extent that the tenderer is obliged to pay the subcontractor. In the request for information, the subcontractor shall provide the contracting authority with evidence of the existence of the outsourcing contract, the amount of the claim and its callability. The contracting authority shall immediately inform the tenderer of the request for information and shall provide it with a copy of the request, together with the supporting evidence and the information provided to the subcontractor. 'In other words, the subcontractor cannot make any claim to the contracting authority at random. Everything must be justified. But the contracting authority can ask the main contractor whether or not everyone has been paid. This correction has been made, the correction has been made. I think that, thanks to this clarification, the burden of empty demands is no longer present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U49	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has pointed out several times that the contracting authority is entrusted with the role of justice in the whole process and in the course of the work of tenders between subcontractors and main contractors. How thoroughly did you discuss this issue in the Commission, and did the problem have a flexible solution? Can you confirm on behalf of the Commission that there will be no conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U51	Thank you, very good question! I'm sorry I forgot to mention this in my report earlier. We asked the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Justice about this. The answer is that this is not contrary to the Constitution. When you read the explanatory statement for the second reading of the bill, you will see that all these points are written out for a long time. Everything we have written in the draft is correct from the point of view of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U52	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I actually have the same question as my colleague Krista Arul, but I will deal with the subject a little bit more broadly. I understand the objective of protecting subcontractors, but I do not think that the way it is done is acceptable. One of the objectives of the draft has been to emphasise the reduction of administrative burdens, but in fact we are placing an obligation on contracting authorities to settle disputes between the main contractor and its subcontractors. It shouldn't be a buyer thing at all. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry clearly disagrees on this change and, as far as I know, one of the largest subscribers of the State Real Estate AS has expressed its disagreement. I don't know about this at the committee, but there was no discussion about whether other major subscribers, the city of à la Tallinn, or contracting authorities, such as Tallinn, Tartu and the city of Pärnu, have been asked for their opinions. In my opinion, it is unreasonable to increase their administrative burden and to entrust them with the task of resolving disputes between the main contractor and the subcontractor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U54	Thank you, good Thomas, for a good question. Once again, I will try to explain to you that I have not understood where this workload comes from. Each contracting authority must take on its own site a supervisor and supervision of the construction will check whether the subcontractors are on top of the object. If a reasonable requirement has to be made, I would stress that it is very clear in the draft that it must be justified, the contract, the invoice, the signed acts must be shown, it is possible to deal with the matter. We do have local government leaders who have solved such problems themselves when the subcontractor has approached them. There's been a chance, but the law didn't have that obligation until now. There is often a situation where the customer says that my hands are short. And we've just forgotten that everything that we're talking about was in place earlier today. This year was perhaps 2007, when the law was simply amended in this Chamber. The main contractor had to inform the contracting authority of all subcontractors when requested by the contracting authority and coordinate the work. At some point, however, it was changed at the request of builders in one area. Now we want to lay down again that those who actually work on a construction site have 90% of them as subcontractors, would have the opportunity to turn to the contracting authority if the main contractor, for some reason, did not fulfil its obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U55	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Rectors' Council and R &amp; D institutions have also expressed their views on the Public Procurement Act. In this area, the law on public procurement applies in exactly the same way as the law on public procurement in the construction sector. How much has the Commission looked at, and does it even look at, the bureaucracy side and the administrative burden are not going to hurt the cultural and educational sphere?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U57	Thank you, very good question! We also discussed this issue in the working group. If you look at Amendment 1, you will see that there is a provision that will help scientific and cultural people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U58	Thomas Väinaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I don't really have a question, because I've been dealing with this area for 15 years in a row. It often happens that the subcontractor has not received the money and comes to me. I won't have the chief accountant transfer the money until the contractor has paid the contractor's salary. But it has often happened that if there is a smaller subcontractor, he has not come to me as an elder and he has lost his money. If you go to court with these things, we all know that the court and the ancient god are the two slowest players who exist. So I think it's quite right that everyone has surveillance. That's how things should work. So I'm one hundred percent in favour of regulation being that way. We have to protect our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U60	Thank you for your opinion. I can say that I've been in all these positions: I've been a contractor, I've been a contractor, I've been a contractor. My company has long since stopped subcontracting, and that's the same reason that when the main contractor made an undersell, there was always a problem with paying the last bill. You didn't know if you'd get your reward or not. Often, the contractor did not pay any bills to the contractor. There are good prime contractors, but we have given several infamous examples in this hall, such as Facio Ehitus. You know very well about a case in your neighborhood, what a public limited company did with its orders and how it went bankrupt. Today we are talking about, for example, the Library of the University of Tartu. If there had been such a point in the law, such a situation could not have arisen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U61	Let's continue the round of questions. Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, To the previous questioner, the contracting authorities and contracting authorities are also people, i.e. neither better nor worse. So there are people on both sides who represent one organization or another. This comment is directed at the fact that what may be justified for one party may not be justified for the other. Justification is a very subjective concept. Yes, a list of examples has been given, but I would argue once again that this is not the case, and I can prove that if contracting authorities are obliged to resolve disputes between the main contractor and subcontractors in certain cases, their administrative burden will increase considerably. I don't think that's justified. Rather, it is a matter of contracts. I, too, have been exposed to cases where subcontractors have been deprived of the money they have received for the work they have done, but the reason has been rather that their main objective has been to get a job and that their rights have not been adequately addressed in the contract they have concluded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U63	Thank you, Thomas! I'm sure you've been a contractor both as a county governor and as mayor. I don't know if you've been a contractor yourself. But I can tell you from experience, the contractor doesn't have much to talk about, either you take the job or you don't. Let us be honest, the main contractors have long negotiations with the contracting authority, although in the case of public procurement, the terms of the contract are clearly written and it is difficult to argue. This change should ensure that in a year's time, there will be no operators like Facio Ehitus on the market because they know that when they start to squeeze someone, this information will reach many. If a large subscriber, for example, as I mentioned here, the public limited company, experiences that he has twice been tricked by some of the main contractors and has not been paid to subcontractors, then the next time he will add a clause to the procurement terms that such a company will not be able to participate. So it's also being organized for the benefit of large companies. We cannot say that some large companies are not in favour of this draft. Some of the conditions are actually offered by large companies, such as the requirement for subcontractors to pay workers at least 70% of the average wage in the sector, so that there are no subcontractors who do not pay taxes. This proposal has come from large companies, not from subcontractors.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U64	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I don't know why there's been such a big argument in this Chamber. We are taking the example of America in many things, and the representatives of NATO units are now acting as Tapa to call all subcontractors and ask if you have received the money from the main contractor. If so, the money will be transferred to the main company. It works very well and has improved payment discipline for majors. Anyone who wants to commit some kind of fraud or just use the money of subcontractors is gone. I think, Aivar, you keep this up and the small businesses, the self-employed, will all support you with great enthusiasm!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U67	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! One of your answers ran through the idea that the main contractor might make an undersupply. This gives the impression that we cannot control the aggregated offer of subcontractors compared to that of the main contractor. Are there any changes to the law in this regard? It might be easy to conclude that if the total number of subcontractors' offers is higher than that of the main contractor, there must be a problem somewhere. Is there such a safeguard mechanism in this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U69	Thank you, very good question! Yes, there will be such a safeguard mechanism in two ways. First, if the work of the best bidder is more than 10% cheaper than that of the following tenderers, the contracting authority has the right to ask the tenderer for additional documents showing how it is possible that his offer is so much cheaper than that of the others. The second measure concerns a situation where the offers of subcontractors are very cheap. The provisions of this Act apply at different times precisely because the Tax Administration is currently carrying out a programme that allows you to automatically look at the average salary of a particular company compared to the average salary of Estonia or your region. If the difference is more than 30% below, then the main contractor is also entitled to ask whether this subcontractor still pays the payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U70	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here, at least I was left with the idea that subcontractors would be forced to make contracts with the main contractor. As far as I know, we have the freedom to conduct a business and no one is being forced into it. Did I misunderstand something or what it is? Who forces whom to make a covenant with whom and on what basis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U72	Thank you for a good question, Maris. I have tried to explain that at the moment the situation is that the main contractors, who often do not always, but often do not do most of the work themselves, can present such turnover figures that they are able to participate in the tenders. Companies that subcontract are in most cases unable to participate in public procurement because their turnover is low. Who does the ventilation, who does the sewer or electrical works. So the situation arises that if you want to get a job, an agreement like the one in public procurement does not apply, that the best bidder wins, but that the subcontractor is chosen so that whoever does the cheapest job for me, I will conclude a contract with it. There's a lot of pressure and pressure. You can shake my head, but I've had it for 30 years, and I know how negotiations work for every job. As always: for the customer, the job seems expensive, for the performer cheap. That's how trading works. It's a natural process. I'm not saying something's wrong, it's a natural process where one side wants to go through cheaper and the other one wants to get more money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U73	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, A great deal of work has been done on the Public Procurement Act and the whole issue has undoubtedly been discussed in depth. I just want to confirm one thing, the answer might be very short. During the processing of the Public Procurement Act, our concerns were addressed by the Estonian visually impaired people's organisation, the NGO Accessibility Forum and several others. Can you confirm that these concerns have been resolved with the help of ministries and also of the Commission? You got anything up there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U75	Thank you, Helmen, for a very good question. I can assure you that most of the problems I can't say are solved 100%, quite all of them. However, these issues will certainly come to the table with the following drafts. To a large extent, however, the Ministry has included the proposals that these organisations approached us with in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U76	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You indicated that there would be an opportunity to monitor the income of employees in companies and, if they appear to be below the average, it would be possible to ask why. But if a small enterprise has implemented a bonus scheme in its company, so that employees still have some benefits that make the average salary lower? Should these companies also have doubts that they will not pay taxes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U78	I guess most of these bonuses are covered by social tax. With regard to the payroll fund, there are very few things that can be recorded in the company's expenses. This point will in future give the company the opportunity to explain if someone feels that they are not paying their employees a good salary as to why this is the case. That's when he shows that he has such a bonus system, and that's how the problem is solved. This does not mean that such a subcontractor is automatically rejected. The contracting authority is simply entitled to examine the case if the average salary of the subcontractor is, for example, 50% compared to the average in the region. Something seems to be wrong. If the matter is resolved differently by means of the bonus system, it is certainly justifiable and there is no problem. I repeat, this does not mean that the undertaking is automatically rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U79	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U80	Honorable manager! Respectable waitress! I find in this explanatory memorandum that the Committee on Economic Affairs has also dealt with issues relating to the protection of intellectual property. One company has drawn attention to this. Undoubtedly, these questions are more important today, figuratively speaking, than yesterday and tomorrow, than today, I am thinking of everything concerning the protection of intellectual property. Perhaps you could comment a little on whether these issues are sufficiently well reflected in the draft Public Procurement Act, in your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U81	Thank you for a very good question. I must admit that this issue was discussed not in the debate on today's draft, but in the debate on the draft which was rejected by the Riigikogu. That was before me. But I know what this is about, and this is where we've put in the appropriate corrections. For example, certain services and the way you offer them are related to intellectual property. If you make it public, the next day, all the companies will offer exactly the same. There is therefore a possibility that certain things will not have to be disclosed in public procurement. This provision exists in today's draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U82	Thank you, dear waitress. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. As there are no requests to speak, we are dealing with the amendments. There are 16 amendments to the draft 450. Let's go to their review. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the proposal of the commission is fully taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U83	On behalf of the Reform Party, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U84	You mean you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U85	That's the other one.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U86	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on another amendment tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Governing Commission's proposal is to take full account of this. Please take a stand and vote! The amendment was supported by 53 MPs, 31 against and one abstention. The amendment has been taken into account. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U87	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U88	Let's do it for sure. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the fourth amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! 36 delegates voted in favour of the amendment, with 50 against. The fourth amendment was not supported. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, this proposal is not subject to the vote because it received less than two votes in favour of the commission. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not to be voted either, as it received less than two votes in favour of the commission. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party; the decision of the commission is to take this into account in part. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the proposal is not subject to the vote as it received less than two votes in favour of the commission. Amendment 11 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. This proposal also received less than two votes in favour in the Commission and is not to be voted on. The 12th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party; the decision of the commission is to disregard it. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U89	Thank you, Mr President. We ask that this amendment be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U90	Let's put it to a vote. Are we ready to vote? I shall put to the vote the 12th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. It is the decision of the Governing Commission to disregard this. Please vote! 36 delegates voted in favour of Amendment 12; 50 against. The amendment proposed by the Reform Party was not supported. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendment 14 has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the proposal is not subject to the vote because it received less than two votes in favour of the commission. The same must be said, however, for the 15th amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, this proposal is not to be voted either, as it received less than two votes in favour of the commission. The 16th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, and according to §106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, it is not to be voted either, as it received less than two votes in favour in the Steering Committee. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft 450. However, the President just received a statement from the vice-chairman of the Reform Party Group. Riigikogu The Estonian Reform Party Group proposes to interrupt the second reading of the draft Public Procurement Act 450. We will vote on this proposal. Are we ready to vote? Please take a position on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Public Procurement Act 450. Please vote! 38 MPs voted in favour of the proposal and against 51. The Reform Party's proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft law was not supported. The second reading of the draft 450 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U91	The eighth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 385. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaidi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at four meetings: 3 April, 20 April, 11 May and 30 May. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 29 March, a proposal was submitted from Liisa Oviir, a member of the Riigikogu. The proposal provided that any conduct or activity of a physical sexual nature considered inappropriate to another person is to be a separate offence where its object or effect is to humiliate the dignity of the person, in particular to create a frightening, hostile, deterrent, degrading or attacking atmosphere. Such an act would be punishable as a crime. The proposal was based on Article 40 of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the so-called Istanbul Convention. The 385 draft relates to amendments to the implementation of this Convention. Estonian law is currently not fully in line with what is required in the Convention and must therefore be supplemented. Thus, the purchase of sex from a victim of human trafficking and the maiming and distortion of female genital organs, as well as forced marriage and harassment, are criminalised. The differences between the rules governing the limitation of the time of the offence will also be amended. The aim is that these cases can be dealt with even after the victim has reached the age of age. Article 59 of the Istanbul Convention also provides for amendments to the Aliens Act. To sum up the meetings of the Commission, the most in-depth discussion in the committee took place in response to Liisa Oviir's proposal. The formation of sexual harassment as an offence was also supported by the stakeholders involved in the draft proceedings. The Ministry of Social Affairs also called on the Legal Affairs Committee to support the establishment of the composition of sexual harassment in the Penal Code. The following interest groups participated in the draft procedure: NGO Children's Protection Association and NGO Eluline, Estonian Women's Lawyers Association, Estonian Women's Association Round Table, Estonian Women's Shadows Association, NGO Women's Support and Information Centre and NGO Pärnu Women's Support Centre. The majority of them attended the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 3 April. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Police and Border Guard Board and the State Attorney General also took part in the meetings of the Commission. At the meeting of the Commission on 11 May, Liisa Oviir withdrew her proposal and the Commission initiated the so-called compromise proposal. Physical harassment of a sexual nature is laid down as a misdemeanour in the section on offences against equality in the Penal Code. The Code of Misdemeanour Procedure assigns competence to the Police and Border Guard Board for a new misdemeanour procedure. Consequently, the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure and the title of the Bill will also be amended. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to make such an amendment with 6 votes in favour (Raivo Aeg, Märt Sults, Toomas Paur, Liisa Oviir, Jaanus Karilaid and Hardi Volmer) and 2 votes against (Valdo Randpere and Uno Kaskpeit). Various arguments were put forward during the hearings as a misdemeanour of sexual harassment in favour of and against the provision of the Penal Code. A representative of the Ministry of Justice pointed out that Article 40 of the Istanbul Convention does not explicitly require the punitive nature of sexual harassment, but that it is necessary to take criminal or other legal measures to ensure that inappropriate verbal and non-verbal or physical behaviour of sexual nature can be responded. It was also pointed out that sexual harassment is dealt with in Estonia in the Act on Gender Equality. However, it was found that since the Gender Equality Act mainly regulates work relations, the current regulation is not sufficient. It was also pointed out that in certain cases the commission of an act may also be regarded as a criminal offence, such as physical abuse (§ 121 of the Penal Code), sexual violence (§ 141 of the Penal Code) or public order (§ 263 of the Penal Code). However, there may be cases that do not fall under the existing Penal Code, but, given the seriousness of the act, they deserve social condemnation. For the protection of victims, but also for the purpose of shaping society's attitudes and raising awareness, it is proposed to provide for a separate punishable composition as a misdemeanour of the Penal Code. However, the condition for the development of any new norm is the ultima ratio principle. Punishment must be the last resort to the problems of society, and penal law must also be based on this principle. First, a minor offense, or wrongdoing, is envisaged. The fact that sexual harassment can be understood differently, based on different traditions as well as the perceptions of different generations, was also brought to the attention of the Commission. However, the Commission decided to make the act referred to in Article 40 of the Istanbul Convention punishable, as already mentioned. Since this is the inclusion of a new offence in the Penal Code, the first amendment has been accompanied by in-depth explanations. In cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and with a view to the implementation of its composition, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board, has given various examples. The second proposal follows from the Ministry of Justice's proposal to supplement the list of elements of crime allowing for surveillance activities provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure in the case of harassment or violence against a public authority. Harassment is also a new crime formation created by this bill. In the event of repeated or continuous contact with another person, his or her monitoring or otherwise interfering in his or her private life, where its purpose or effect is to intimidate or humiliate another person or otherwise seriously disturb him or her, he or she shall be punishable by a financial penalty or imprisonment of up to one year. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to initiate the amendment and take full account of the result of 6 votes in favour (Raivo Aeg, Märt Sults, Toomas Paur, Liisa Oviir, Jaanus Karilaid, Hardi Volmer) and 2 votes against (Valdo Randpere and Uno Kaskpeit). The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu by 6 June 2017 and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The third reading of the draft and the final vote could be on 14 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U93	Thank you, dear waitress. Since Henn Põllaas wants to ask, you can't leave the remote yet. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good speaker! I'm reading the explanatory statement and I can't help wondering where we've come from. We discuss what happens when someone puts a hand on another person's shoulder or comforts someone who is extremely unhappy and takes him around his shoulders. We are discussing this matter here in the Riigikogu, whether it is suddenly sexual harassment and whether it must be punished. That's absurd! This is how we get to some sort of orwell-like world, or to a foggy Fatamorgana society of extremists and sots, where we can't even open the door to women or help our coats back. Where are we going with this stuff?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U95	Mr Henn Põllaas, that is a really good question! When I recall Orwell's 1984 book, I don't really remember someone comforting someone who was very sad and being taken as some huge crime. I think if you really see someone who needs comfort and hug, then, Henn Põlluaas, I encourage you to do so. Don't be afraid! I don't think this person goes to the police and says that Henn Põlluaas molested me sexually and it looks like a crime. Trust me, it's a matter of perception between two people. But if someone's been harmed and she's going to the police with a statement, then there was a reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U96	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. Two amendments to draft 385 have been tabled, and we will examine them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the decision of the commission is the same: take full account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 385. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U97	Today's last item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of the European Investigation Order Directive). Urve Tiidus, Member of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U98	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft Act 442 amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act initiated by the Government of the Republic for the second reading was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 30 May. With two sentences, I'll tell you what will be changed. This is the transposition of the EIO Directive. This directive, as we know, provides a clear framework for Member States to provide legal assistance to each other in criminal proceedings in the future. So far, this has simply taken place through a system of mutual assistance. The Legal Affairs Committee asked for the opinion of the Estonian Bar Association between the first and second reading, but the Bar Association did not express its position. There were no substantive amendments. Ms Mare Tannberg, adviser to the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, presented to the Commission an amendment tabled by the Ministry, which is rather technical. Ms Tannberg noted that, in connection with another draft, it was necessary to replace one number with another when supplementing the law implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Raini Laide, the Head of the Secretary-General of the Committee on Legal Affairs, also noted that one of these amendments was a purely technical change. The original text of the draft law provided that the law implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure would be supplemented by § 255 "Application of the provisions of the European Investigation Order'. However, there is also a second draft, No 404, establishing a procedure for the European Account Preservation Order to facilitate cross-border debt recovery in both civil and commercial matters. This text also includes the addition to § 255 of the Act on the Implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It was therefore necessary to amend draft 442 and to replace § 255 with the new number originally proposed in the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, § 256. As a result of the vote of the commission, it was decided to take this amendment fully into account. The procedural decisions were as follows: It was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session today, 6 June, that the second reading be closed, that the draft be sent to third reading when the second one is closed, by 14 June, and that the draft be put to the final vote. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-06_U99	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. As there are no requests to speak, I say that one amendment has been tabled to amend draft 442 and has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 442. Second reading is over. Ladies and gentlemen, today's session is closed. If you embrace today's birthday child, you can be sure that sanctions will not follow. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.36 a.m.
