ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U2	Good afternoon, President of the Republic, President Rüütel, Riigikogu, Prime Minister, Ministers, constitutional officials, Excellencys, guests! I will open the VIth session of the XIIIth Riigikogu. Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu, President of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U3	Honourable Riigikogu! Mr President Kersti Kaljulaid! I am sincerely pleased that you have decided to keep the practice created and entered by President Lennart Meri, Arnold Rüütli and Toomas Hendrik Ilves that the first autumn session of the Riigikogu will be attended and will also be performed by the President of our Republic. Honourable Government of the Republic! Constitutional institutions! Dear ambassadors! Good people here at home and in the rest of the world! Although my other talk is usually working, allow me to begin by praising you, because one important celebration of our lives went by somewhat too quietly in my opinion. A few words about the best law in the Republic of Estonia. In the office of the President of the Riigikogu, I sometimes find myself in a situation where I tend to compare us with our fellow fates: where and why something has gone well or vice versa, badly, and must be changed. If, for some reason, life has progressed better in Estonia, I am looking for an answer to the question 'why? ' and I'm getting back to the same law over and over again. This law is the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which was overwhelmingly approved by the people on 28 June 1992. Honourable Members of the Constitutional Assembly! Thank you, particularly as a citizen of the Republic of Estonia, for the work you have done more than 25 years ago. Thank you for respecting the rights and freedoms of the people, preserving and developing the Estonian language and culture, the parliamentary regime suitable for the open world, the fundamentals of the electoral system that meets society's expectations and the balanced monitoring of the implementation of the Constitution. To be honest, it would have been easier for politicians to carry out their lives in accordance with another, certainly democratic constitution. You didn't give the offspring that chance, and you did the right thing. But no man's arranged size is eternal, and if anything can be done better, then it must be done. That is why we are talking today, not yet very loudly, about the need to reform the country. This is certainly necessary, but let us not forget to ask what the purpose of the changes is. Why are we making one or another change? What are we gonna win, what are we gonna lose? Surely we should not afford to lose, or even to risk, the size of democracy. I believe that we all want to live in a country of people who can cope with themselves. Without democracy, such a country cannot be created. I will also allow myself to develop the subject here. They say it's important and I'm not ashamed to talk about it here, so how many members of the future Riigikogu are there. Very specific and popular size, everyone understands. Unfortunately, it doesn't make the country much cheaper, but it's a sign. In the case of the Riigikogu as a democratically elected and socially balanced size, I think another figure is more important: several world views or political parties are represented here at the will of the voters. Four, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, was too little, three would be the last limit, two would be standing on the edge of the abyss, where there is little reason to believe in consistent national governance. Five percent of voters' support does not currently exclude anyone from the chosen quantity of the people. True, they may have only five seats, but still. But what could a group of two, for example, accomplish? Or another example. Allegedly, our prime ministers do not have enough power. They must maintain domestic peace in a power union and reconcile different concepts. I think all our prime ministers have done it. Now, if you give the Prime Minister a chance to run over the office, the result is easy to predict. If we have currently had, on average, two coalitions in power during one Riigikogu, then at least four for a more empowered prime minister. The question here is whether the constant drift from one government crisis to the next is not a threat to democracy, because the voters will one day be sick of it. History should have taught us that the boredom of parliamentarianism can one day lead to silent surrender. Let us also pay tribute to the work of our predecessors on constitutional supervision. In the engineering language, this machine works, and it works well. All the presidents and Chancellors of Justice have been guided by their powers; the judiciary in Estonia is independent. And that's the way it's supposed to be. I do not see the need to reduce the power of the elected parliament of the people by creating, at the request of anyone, a second chamber of law and decisions which is not elected by the people and which is therefore called the Constitutional Court. In other words: democracy and the decision-making of the highest power, or voters, must not be a loser in the country's reforms. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu, to consider the organisation of the work of the Riigikogu during the process of state reform. For example, is the number of our committees really what it should be? Does it not bother you that the natural desire to hold a parliamentary debate can only be fulfilled in this House if the supervisory rights of the Riigikogu are used a little more wisely? Our current Rules of Procedure do not give much choice but to ask on Monday. Or why are the proposals made by the Chancellor of Justice, with which the House has agreed unanimously, stuck behind a stump? Because we expect the bill as such from the government. In a parliamentary country, however, such a bill could be born in this house without any greater concern. The state reform will be successful if we seek an answer to the question of how power can be more modern and open. If we are only looking for an answer to the question of how to act cheaper or more rationally, then we may succeed, but we can also cut our finger and cut it painfully. In the next few months, the local elections will be held in October, as well as the results of these elections, will give our work here in this Chamber a jolt and shine. In wishing you all luck, I dare remind you that those who have been elected to the local council will not receive any discounts in the work of the Riigikogu. Therefore, consider carefully whether you will be able to fulfill two obligations when elected. Perhaps it is better to make choices here. I do not see any reason to be ashamed if someone starts work and work in the local council only after the Riigikogu has ended its mandate, because it does not have to be there without running and being elected. Unfortunately, there are still questions about administrative reform and we are waiting for the views of the Supreme Court. In this regard, it should be noted that the government's decisions on forced mergers also poured oil into the fire rather than took the tension off. But the decision of the Supreme Court will surely be fair and fair. Mr President, I wouldn't be honest with myself if I didn't bring it up. The Riigikogu will also make a decision about the law on unproclaimed sweet tax. I don't know today and I don't know what that decision is gonna be. However, I consider it my duty to explain here and today that in many laws that already apply, the Riigikogu has established different conditions based on the view that the department store is a department store and the ship is a ship, not a department store. Perhaps this position has been wrong, but hopefully we will come to a common understanding. Good people! I also hope that the society's widespread understanding that the Law on Partnerships does not bully or harass anyone, including in no way those who do not need it, will slowly reach this hall. Perhaps we can also adopt implementing legislation. Honourable ambassadors! Regardless of what our government associations are, Estonia is a strong supporter of international cooperation and an ally. This conviction, which I have repeatedly confirmed to you, is based on the knowledge that voters simply do not choose a different-thinking Parliament. It was, it is, and it will be. How we succeeded in the Presidency of the European Union will later be told by you. But Parliament is also doing its best here. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Republic of Estonia will soon be 100 years old. Knowing you, I believe that this knowledge will lead to a special working spirit. Tammsaare has already admitted that there is no love.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U4	Madam President, I would like to ask you to speak to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U5	Mr President Rüütel, representatives of constitutional institutions, President of the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, government, Prime Minister! Dear Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to express my respect for the seemingly simple and natural thing: participation in the democratic process. But the time is, obviously, one has to repeat it so that you don't forget. As members of the Riigikogu, you have taken into account that the public does not always support your views, but you have nevertheless expressed your views. You are prepared to present, defend and give up the peaceful role of spectator for your ideas. You have proposed action and have acted with the voter's support. You have not taken on the comfort of being a critic. You have also known that the solutions you have proposed have never been technically perfect, but always acted in the understanding that what is being done is the best compromise that society has been prepared to accept. You do not share your worldview in anonymous commentaries, but in public and in public. Your salary is not just meaningful and constructive criticism. Your salary is also based on your personal characteristics, appearance, family status, number of children or lack of them, sexual orientation or assumptions about it, even leisure preferences. Regardless of whether I share your view of the world, you have my respect. However, obviously there have been times in this Chamber and there have perhaps been contributions today to those who have deliberately, foolishly or negligently contributed that the profession of politician in Estonia has a negative image. You don't even have to try to remember a crime or a racist statement. Our political parties still sometimes campaign without selecting resources or using public funds. People still don't understand party cash flows, how party money comes and where it goes. That's not good. We need the intelligent part of society to be ready to find itself in this hall one day. We need the whole of society, including all our young people, to trust and show political confidence through a high turnout. Transparent and clearly law-abiding action will certainly help. Let us all show together that Estonia's future counts first and foremost and that in order to shape it, we need the positive support of the people for their actions. Let us make sure that Estonians have reason to be proud of themselves and those who represent them in this very hall! Please do not forget that no one can monopolise the pride of being an Estonian. No one can ask us to give up our freedoms so that we can become blue black and white. No one can limit our free self-determination, not even to become blue black and whiter. No one must make a part of society feel guilty or consider them useless because they do not think, throughout their reproductive age, that more pure-blood Estonians would stand under blue black and white. No one must consider a less blue-black-white flag to belong to those fellow citizens who come from another language or culture. The cultural space and the ceremony are acquired, learned. You can acquire it at home, but also in kindergarten and school. There is no blue-black-white gene pool. There are Estonian languages, culture, customs, customs and habits, and finally our laws and their enforcement along with an independent judicial system, which has the right to expect support for their independence in this Chamber as well. Good members of the Riigikogu! Your vote is decisive so that our country can make the best use of the opportunities given to us by history. You've been resourceful and flexible all along. You have been able to put a great curiosity about future developments arising from the instinct of a small country at the service of our future. I congratulate you on your initiative to support innovative entrepreneurs and to create a legal framework in which they can operate. It is worth recognising the entrepreneurship of the Riigikogu in cooperation with entrepreneurs in the so-called Uber Act to find solutions for the use of new opportunities without the loss of easy workers. It is very good for the legislator, rather than resisting progress with paragraphs, to move along with these developments. In support of technological development, the Estonian Riigikogu is certainly the world champion of parliaments. Hold that position! Of course, the profession of politician in this innovative country is riskier than in any other, subdued democracy. And, of course, the challenge is to move forward in many ways by trial and error. Nevertheless, the former has an important advantage. No one else can pick a pace; no one else sees the obstacles so clearly ahead, but no opportunities. Estonia would never have become the world's first digitally functioning society, supported by the state with its democratic structure, if politicians had not been courageous leaders. Of course, we are sometimes hit by setbacks, the exact nature and influence of which is very difficult to predict. After the cyber attacks of 2007, we showed that it only made us stronger as a digital state than we were before. This autumn, among other things, the cyber security law will come before you. This is also your opportunity to update the legal framework to deal with cyber threats. There is a chance for all of us, now that many questions are asked about our digital state once again, to move forward with the next versions, not to withdraw. Last week it turned out that the computational error that most of us cannot understand, which we find through a number of different international cooperation chains, is already a global technological world, is once again forcing us to take bold steps as a country to support our digital society. And, of course, these are the steps that no other country, no other country, has taken before us. It should be taken into account that now and from now on we pick the wrong paths from time to time, we come back a little bit, but we'll keep looking. This is certainly still economically useful to us, and as such, Estonia is both known and necessary in the world. Somebody's got to dare. We dare! We dare as a society, not as a single technology company, that is our speciality. This is our opportunity to be the best living environment for our citizens, a flexible home port with our global reach or simply a neighbouring country. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is a new legislative season ahead. In order to protect the rule of law and democracy, the legislator has committed itself to good legislative practice. In order to maintain people's faith in the rule of law and in the competence of the legislator, the legislator must be able to see the whole picture. Plans for the development of draft laws and the assessment of their effects must not be a tedious formality, which is only formal or, if successful, avoided at all. Case-by-case and unthought-out legislation that does not take into account the current legal system or responds most to daily political news stories received by clicks always produces implementation problems, additional legislative changes, additional costs, nervousness, legal uncertainty. How can it be that, despite all good intentions to bring children with learning difficulties and disabilities to mainstream schools, teachers remain alone with concern, how can we now ensure that all children are given sufficient attention to progress? How do the mistakes that with the power of law relieve designers of their responsibility to ensure access to people with disabilities happen? How can it happen that some local authorities interpret their freedom to provide comprehensive social support to the weakest in society as freedom to do nothing? How can the cost of social services vary almost three times in municipalities with similar levels of income and demography? Stricter sanctions and controls will, of course, impress voters, but what is their point if there is no system of rehabilitation for erring people? These are questions that the people of Estonia ask me, probably from you, every day. For many draft laws, the legislator assumes that the draft is constitutional. But that's not enough. You people of the Riigikogu are the legislator. You are responsible for correct and fair, clear and reliable legislation. There is a disregard for responsibility by allowing paper to protect rights such as living together, in a situation where there is not enough will or responsibility to ensure that these rights are implemented. By the way, the Constitution of the Soviet Union also promised to protect freedom of expression and thought on paper. Of course, we can hope in the Republic of Estonia that the courts will come here to help people ensure that the rule of law works. And they will. But it doesn't cover legal uncertainty. Or we will take the proposed background check law, in which I hope that the feedback received will receive sufficient attention. It is in the interest of all of us to maintain confidence in public authorities, but it is never too much to ask whether there will be irreparable damage in the rush of regulation, even if this overregulation may not always be unconstitutional. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to end by telling you that you respect your position not only for your own good, but also for the good of the Estonian state. I am concerned that the Riigikogu seems to be too kind, ready to give much of its tasks to the executive. Yes, the Riigikogu lost the most worrying provisions of the draft state budget, which would have significantly expanded the budget powers of the government on the account of the Riigikogu, but only in response to the critical opposition positions of the Auditor General, Chancellor of Justice and the Supreme Court. It is worth adding that the financial competence of the Riigikogu is not limited to approving the state budget and distributing roof money. Parliament's responsibility also extends to long-term infrastructure projects of national significance, such as Rail Baltic. Your task is to establish and implement those control mechanisms by which you can also exercise this responsibility. However, the distribution of roofing money could be abandoned at all, or you could say in a transparent way how and who can exactly ask the Riigikogu for this Christmas gift. I am here today to confirm my determination to do the best with you in order to prevent us from neglecting the rule of law and fundamental rights, in addition to practical and urgent needs, without which our freedom won 26 years ago is less worthwhile. Finally. In autumn, many of you are likely to assume even more responsibility and confirm that they will be able to do as good a job as they are at a place where they represent people's interests at local and, at the same time, at national level. It's constitutional. The constitutionality of the mandates of a member of the local government and a member of the Riigikogu has been confirmed by the Supreme Court. However, I would also like to give up one of these two chairs of self-confidence if you feel that you cannot reconcile different interests without having to compromise with your conscience. I wish you the strength to work and the wisdom to make the right decisions! Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U6	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U8	I have to tell you, mixed choir HUIK! The performance was performed by Ester Mägi and Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald's song "The thoughts of the Viru singer." Thank you for the mixed choir and their conductor Ayaka Ueda. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]] And it has already arrived at the long-awaited moment when it is possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U9	Mr. Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representative, Prime Minister, guests! I wish everyone a good working season! The Free Party Group will continue from this hard-working line, which the President of the honourable Riigikogu drew attention to in his speech. I have an inquiry to report to the Prime Minister on behalf of eight MPs. Prime Minister, we have very different views with you on many political issues, but I believe that the issue we want to raise here is where we want to equally bring clarity, purity, transparency, and we also want political corruption to end. Our inquiry is entitled 'Azerbaijan washing machine, banking supervision and caviar diplomacy'. This year's second large-scale scheme for money laundering through the Danske Bank branch operating in Estonia raises two very acute questions: the credibility of the Estonian financial sector and, ultimately, Estonia's reputation, but also the acute issues of international political corruption. In this regard, we address all these questions to the Prime Minister. There's six of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U10	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U11	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen and guests! You see, during the summer break, I forgot which button to press. We have a referral to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas for six members of the Conservative People's Party regarding the insecurity of e-elections. We also wish to cancel them. As everyone obviously knows, the Conservative People's Party challenged the decision of the Republic Election Commission to hold an e-vote despite the risk of security. In our opinion, this is also a violation of the Constitution. At the same time, we know that the views on the security of e-votes differ from one government to another. Let's ask you six things. Firstly, how did the risk assessment of the RIA and the risk assessment of the Republic Election Commission differ in principle from the e-vote? Since this is the opposite of two, we want to know which one the Prime Minister agrees with. There are therefore the views of two public authorities. How do you feel about the idea that an authoritative international audit of the entire e-election system must be carried out before another e-election is organised? What steps does the government plan to take to mitigate existing security risks, and how long will these measures take? We understand that the electoral commission of the Republic is responsible for the conduct of the elections, but the Government of the Republic is still responsible for the legitimate and complete functioning of the state and the elections. What are the possibilities for the Government of the Republic to direct the electoral commission to act more responsibly? Does the Prime Minister agree that, given the risks, e-elections should still be cancelled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U12	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U13	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! Today the Government of the Republic initiates 11 draft laws and submits one draft decision of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and related amendments to other laws. Secondly, the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva when dealing with these two draft laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Fisheries Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Tourism Act, the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Fifthly, the draft law amending the Small Islands Act and the Ground Law. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Sixth, the amendment of the arms law and the related amendment of other laws. In processing this bill in the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt. Seventh, the draft law on waste. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Siim Kiisler, Minister of the Environment, when the bill is being processed. Eighth, the draft law amending the Code of Administrative Court Procedure, the State Fees Act and the Law on Legal Aid to improve administrative court procedures. Ninth, the draft law amending the Administrative Procedure Act and other laws. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when dealing with these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Decimal, draft law amending the law on paying agencies and e-money institutions and related amendments to other laws. The draft law amending the Social Tax Act and the Income Tax Act to the eleventh. And by the 12th, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'According to the State's Summary Report for the financial year 2016'. The Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the above three drafts in the Riigikogu. Have a successful autumn session! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U14	Thank you to the Government of the Republic! I have adopted 12 drafts and two inquiries, and we are working with them in accordance with the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 91 MPs in the plenary session. Clarification and validation of the agenda. With the agreement of the Riigikogu, the authors of the inquiry and the addressee, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas responds to the inquiries which were on today's agenda under numbers 362 and 363 on 18 September. With this clarification, I will vote on the agenda for the first working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. With 89 votes in favour and 2 abstentions, no one opposed, the agenda for the week has been confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U15	The next item is the question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas of Riigikogu members Andres Ammas, Külliki Kübarse, Andres Herkel, Monika Haukanõmme, Ain Lutsep and Krista Aru. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U16	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U17	I'm sorry, Andres Ammas! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a desire to have a conversation, it is very nice. But it would be even better if this nice conversation took place somewhere else, not in this hall. Thank you. Please, Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U18	I have the honorable task of introducing our questions for the autumn season with an important topic such as the protection of the Estonian population. Six members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry already on 18 May. But because it only comes now, nothing's broken. This theme will probably never expire. Looking at what is happening in the world at the moment and following the painful news of disasters in different parts of the world, it is clear that, although we sometimes think that we here on the shores of the Baltic Sea would live behind the so-called old god, we too may face crisis situations that require a responsible, quick, accurate and coordinated response. The decision of the Government of the Republic of Estonia of December 2015 established a population protection task force and defined the objective of population protection (to improve the awareness and skills of the population, increase preparedness for possible crisis situations and ensure the protection of the population). How progress has been made in this direction is what we want to hear from the Prime Minister today. It seems to the six members of the Riigikogu who submitted questions to them that some things could perhaps be better done and that the Government of the Republic may not have given full attention to this issue. We want to hear what the Prime Minister must do more specifically in the area of protection of the population, whether he has sufficient powers for all of this, or whether he needs more, and how we should further develop the system of protection of the population. I am thinking in particular of the practical way in which population protection is expressed in the role of local authorities, cooperation between public authorities, in the education system as a whole, in the overall planning of national defence and in the real management of possible crises. It is known that in the case of possible crises in Estonia, probably too much is expected only to act on force structures, but this is probably short-sighted and even potentially dangerous thinking, which may hinder the best response in the event of a crisis. Wide-ranging defence, including population protection, is such an important area that it must be understood by every citizen. We have asked why these tasks are not currently very clearly planned and formulated, why the tasks have not been clearly distributed between the state and the municipalities, how population protection training should be organised in schools, why we do not have codes of conduct for civilians in emergency situations, and how we protect ourselves and how we protect the elderly and children. We hope to get comprehensive and concrete answers from the Prime Minister to all these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U19	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U20	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! Let me first wish you a lot of strength and success in improving Estonia's life and standing up for the people of Estonia. That's what you do every day, no matter the season. I would like to thank the members of the Free Party for their questioning. I think that's a subject we all think is topical. If you will allow me, I will first read the question and then the answer, so perhaps everyone will be easier to follow. The first question: 'Why are the tasks of population protection still not clearly defined and planned and clearly distributed between the state and the municipality? Please specify the most important activities that you consider to be included in the local government and state perspective. ' Population protection is not a new phenomenon, but the new approach allows Estonia to look at the protection of residents more comprehensively than has been the case so far, without distinguishing between events caused either by an emergency or by armed conflict. Indeed, in the process of crisis regulation and the reconstruction of national defence, tasks are shared between the state and the municipality, which helps to mitigate the risks and mitigate the consequences of different crisis situations. On the basis of our own needs and shortcomings, and the experience of other countries, we are currently developing proposals that would make our people even more secure if they were implemented. These proposals will bring together the population protection task force, which will be presented to the government for discussion at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year. The readiness of Estonian residents and institutions must create prerequisites to help us all cope with all emerging crisis situations. Both local and central authorities have a very important role to play in preparing citizens for crises, and preparations must of course be made in cooperation. In the event of crises, both local authorities and the state must be prepared to jointly warn citizens of danger, to evacuate them, if necessary, and to provide assistance to people in distress, taking into account local opportunities. For the organisation of vital services, the tasks are divided between the state and local government according to both responsibilities. The allocation of other tasks also follows the normal responsibilities of the institutions. There is a principle that the state focuses on activities that need to be carried out across the country on similar principles, and the local government seeks solutions to protect its people, taking into account the best opportunities to organise local life. The second question: "How should population protection education in schools and education in general be carried out, and what additional resources is the government planning to implement it? ' Preparations for teaching population protection in schools are already under way. The preliminary work on changing the curriculum of the upper secondary school and vocational school is in the final stages and the topics of population protection have been included in this curriculum. The new national defence teachers are prepared on the basis of an already upgraded curriculum. Public protection knowledge is intended to be provided and taught at all levels of study, linked to compulsory subjects. This will be done with the help of teachers, which will help to ensure daily health and safety, but also as a basis for teaching emergency preparedness. The teaching of population protection in schools is also addressed in the concept of population protection, which highlights the financial needs associated with it. The third question: 'Why does Estonia lack population-defence codes of conduct to act in the military situation of civilians? Are they intended to be created and disseminated and when? In Lithuania, for example, precise instructions have been set up and announced under the leadership of the Ministry of Defence to act in a military situation. " The Population Protection Task Force is currently preparing citizens' codes of conduct to deal with situations of crisis and they also include action in the event of armed conflict. Behavior instructions will be ready, as I said, by the end of this year. The details of the dissemination of codes of conduct, to whom and how they are disseminated, will be agreed in the autumn. Question 4: "How must the state and local government react in the event of a failure of vital services such as water, electricity, heating, sanitation and other services in the long term, and how should the elderly and children be protected in such a situation? ' Emergency situations are solved in Estonia on the principle that prevention and solutions must be carried out at the level closest to the population. That is why there is a strong expectation that vital service providers will continue to operate, regardless of the circumstances, and they have a duty to ensure that they continue to do so. Although both the operation of the service and the elimination of interruptions are primarily the obligations of the service provider, local authorities, as well as the state, have an important role to play in the event of a disruption of long-term vital service, through ministries and agencies that need to establish preparedness to deal with a potential emergency. Emergency response to the disruption of national services such as electricity or natural gas is managed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The municipality is responsible for heating, water supply, sewerage and the operation of local roads and for the well-being of its own residents. For example, in the event of a long-term and extensive interruption of water supply, it is the local government that has to arrange for the water supply to be restored and for alternative water abstractions to be set up on the territory of the local government for the duration of the rehabilitation. The new Emergency Act, which entered into force on 1 July 2017, also includes a requirement for the local authority to draw up emergency plans in cooperation with critical service providers in such situations. Local authorities and public authorities also play an important role in preventing disruptions of vital services, including in directing the preventive activities of the vital service provider. This is mainly done by training and advising service providers, but also by setting requirements for supervision and provision of vital services. For example, it is controlled and responsible for ensuring that critical service providers produce and regularly update risk analyses and plans for continuity of activity and take measures to increase the continuity of service. Question 5: Is and how the availability of food, fuel, medicines and drinking water in the country in the event of a national defence crisis? Have ministries and local authorities been entrusted with the creation of reserves or any other means of access? For how many and for how long does the state and local authorities have reserves and how long do people have to cope independently? ' The establishment of reserves is regulated by the Emergency Act, the National Defence Act, the Liquid Fuel Stock Act and the Health Services Management Act, as well as the Estonian National Defence Law review work plans to analyse inventory management in the event of crises. Pursuant to § 5 (4) of the National Defence Act, the Ministry, other authority of the executing State, the local government unit and any other legal person with national defence functions must ensure the availability of the necessary resources and reserves for the performance of their national defence tasks. The founder of the reserve required for crisis situations shall be responsible for its storage, use, control and renewal, including replenishment. For example, the food supply is made up by the Ministry of Rural Affairs, the health care reserve is made up by the Health Board and the liquid fuel supply is managed by AS Eesti Liquid Fuel Supply Agency, a company governed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The local government must ensure that water supply and sewerage are functioning, which is a vital service. The calculation of the quantities of food stocks is based on the number of Estonian residents, which should cover the needs of the population within seven days. It is estimated that the health care supply will continue for two weeks, and that the users of this supply are exclusively healthcare providers, such as hospitals and ambulances. The supply of liquid fuel is intended to alleviate long-term supply difficulties and does not reflect the direct response to the crisis scenarios. It is estimated that the stock will allow Estonia's internal consumption of energy products to be satisfied on at least 60 days. In order to ensure that people are not immediately put at risk during the interruption of vital services or other unexpected situations, we recommend that we keep a week's stock at home so that we can manage independently. The Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Rescue Board have already given recommendations to the residents. More detailed advice will be available in the codes of conduct for the protection of the population that will be completed by the end of this year. Question 6: "What changes in legislation is the government preparing to launch the development of the population protection system as a result of the task force's work and to give local authorities, central authorities and the Prime Minister in particular the necessary rights? What rights do the Prime Minister need at present to manage this area? ' The need for legal changes related to the development of public protection will be assessed after the concept of population protection has been completed. One of the objectives of the Population Protection Task Force is to develop a division of functions for the protection of the population of different institutions, including local authorities as well as public authorities. Question 7: 'As the development of the resilience of the Estonian population and the economy requires additional resources in a difficult security policy situation, what additional resources does the Government of the Republic intend to channel towards the protection of the population? ' The concept of public protection will be presented to the government at the end of this year, at the latest at the beginning of next year. After discussions and hopefully approval, its proposals will be taken into account when drawing up the next country's budgetary strategy. At the moment, the funds needed to develop the protection of the population are not yet fully known. We have agreed in the Government Union that one of the important priorities of this government is the strengthening of Estonia's security. This has been a priority in the preparation of the current country's budgetary strategy, and I believe it will also be a priority in the preparation of the next country's budgetary strategies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U22	Honourable President! Respectable Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. But there are further questions, of course. I remember that one of the most serious natural events that hit Estonia in this century was the sudden rise in sea water and the floods that accompanied it. I think it was in January 2005. At that time, the cooperation between the various institutions and local governments, at least in Läänemaa, was quite intensively managed by the rural government in helping the residents. Who will take over this role now that the governments of the country are being eradicated? How do you plan to divide the role of rural governments between municipalities or public authorities at that time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U23	Thank you! I think that this concept needs to be brought together once and for all, with such specific complex examples. You mentioned the rise of the sea. I remember the problem of one of my previous jobs that if, for example, in this capital, the water level of a lake rises (not in terms of this wonderful historical story, but of reality), what does that mean? These things have happened, and these threats are completely serious. In my opinion, one of the main tasks of the Population Protection Task Force is, apart from the most critical aspect of risk communication, that such services do not fall between two chairs, i.e. between two administrations. I have to admit, unfortunately, this is the case in many things right now. This competence of the rural governments, which you mentioned, must be finally written in the same way in this concept. What's to deny, I've also asked this task force about the substance. It is said that there are often very strong disputes and there is a question of who will then be such a general responsibility in these areas. The Emergency Act states that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is responsible for certain services, local government for certain services, Eesti Pank for certain services, etc. I think that today there is not yet a final answer to the question of who will be transferred to the role of county government, either to the local government, to a state office or to the ministry. But it is definitely on the table as part of the task force's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U24	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U25	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In your answers, you said that there would be a new system of education in schools, broad-based national defence would be part of it, and that there would also be training in population protection. I don't understand that a little bit. If, on the one hand, the task force is still developing the concept of population protection and, on the other hand, educational institutions are teaching a new system, what are they really teaching?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U26	Thank you. I say once again, you do not have this text in front of what I said. I said that preparations for teaching population protection in schools are already under way. The preliminary work on changing the curriculum of the upper secondary school and vocational school is in the final stages and the topics of population protection have been included in this curriculum. The new national defence teachers are prepared on the basis of an already upgraded curriculum. Public protection knowledge is intended to be provided and taught at all levels of study, linked to compulsory subjects. We can give quite a few examples of how some topics in this field are addressed in different subjects. I think it's gonna be the same in the future. This will be done with the provision of assistance to teachers, which will help to ensure health and safety, but also as a basis for teaching emergency preparedness. The teaching of population protection in schools is also addressed in the concept of population protection, which highlights the financial needs associated with it. I would like to stress once again that I was talking about preparation and that preliminary work on changing curricula is in the final stages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U27	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! If we are not now talking about the worst, or direct, armed attack on the Republic of Estonia, but we come to such'more acute crises', I dare say that in most of Estonia's municipalities, the 'crisis plans' are merely formal-legal papers that have been drawn up because they have to be drawn up, and which have been put into a folder, except perhaps, yes, Pärnu or some other place where a real accident has already survived. What are the government's tools to force or influence the local government to produce competent analyses as well as effective crisis plans? Let me give you a simple example. There are very many settlements in Estonia where there are railways. I don't think there's a plan in all these places to do when, like, the ammonia cistern goes around.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U29	Thank you. First of all, we still have to look at the legislative framework. After all, the legislator's will has been that the new Emergency Act, which entered into force on 1 July of this year, also includes the requirement that in such situations the local authority, in cooperation with the vital service provider, must draw up emergency plans. That's one. Secondly, you asked in such a relief what are the possibilities of using force or how the central government should behave. I still think there should be cooperation here. I replied to Mr Talvik that preparations for changing curricula were under way. Thirdly, when the concept of population protection comes into government, it is clear that there is no saying in any area that we have budgetary resources for this. This was also the reason why I said that when the concept of population protection comes to government, it is also a very real input in the drafting of the state budget strategy, but also in the drafting of the state budget. I think that there must be very close cooperation here with local authorities, as well as with the central administration or central government of the country. As I prepared to answer this question, I tried to find out where we found the first serious beginnings of population protection. It is now 2017. If you think back, you might ask, "When it all started in 2015, what had happened for 24 years? I mean, re-independence. In May 2017, the Riigikogu adopted the foundations of security policy. This document deals with broad-based national defence. Its sub-chapter 3.7 talks about the security of the living environment, the protection of the population and the living environment. So there's a little bit of these underframes already. It seems to me that your question was what these concrete measures are. On the one hand, there are improvements to the Emergency Act from 1 July 2017 and on the other there are the foundations of security policy. When the concept of population protection is completed, I think it must actually be reflected in the state budget strategy and the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U30	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Theoretically, we now have a security risk with regard to ID cards. But theoretically, there is also a risk that, for example, some kind of malicious action or some kind of accident will cause us to lose power or create some kind of pollution that may require the evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people. To what extent has the state foreseen all this in its plans: transport, places where these people are being taken, how are they found hot spaces, how are they fed, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U32	Thank you. From what I'm sensing, I can generally say that we have to be ready for two in case. Firstly, the crises that arise during peacetime. You have pointed out some of them at the moment in your question: a blackout, from here on you can think about a heating cut, especially in those municipalities with district heating areas, I would also mention drinking water pollution, an attack on drinking water. The second area is the protection of the population, say, during wartime, under war conditions. It is currently the most developed and prepared to ensure that the state and local government are ready. It means teaching, informing or warning the residents, it certainly means the evacuation of the residents, which you asked about. Is the state ready for this? I'm sure he's kind of ready. Can't say I'm not ready, I'm sure you can't say that. I gave concrete answers to the fifth question from the members of the Free Party Group to the length of time for which the state or local government has reserves for certain cases. For example, the calculation of food stocks is based on the number of Estonian residents; these stocks should cover the needs of the population for seven days. Health supplies are estimated to last for two weeks, etc. I think it is important that, when this concept of population protection is developed, the real time resources and quantities that are needed are also identified, up to how much formation is needed, how much drinking water is needed, how much fuel is needed, etc. It's all about population protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U33	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U34	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! Our question is motivated by a meeting with the representatives of the task force, from which I received a signal that there is more concern, because the government does not feel responsible that it should also be very clear and active in this process during the drafting of the plan. What's the problem? I'm trying to be clearer. The municipality cannot be held liable for anything unless it has guarantees. I see that the state can provide funding guarantees, for example, here. For example, Järvamaa recently had wind shit, members of the community were damaged. Where are these tools to help how information flows are ensured, how can communities help larger municipalities? Standards need to be developed. When was the last time you met the task force, and what is your mid-term review?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U35	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U36	Thank you. First of all, you mentioned the criticism that the task force had mediated you, as if the government did not take this issue seriously. Of course he takes it seriously. I also said, I think, in reply to the last question, that protection of the population and broad-based national defence are one of the clear priorities of the current and, hopefully, of all subsequent governments. Personally, in May this year, I was here before you with a document on the basis of security policy. You asked me when I last met representatives of the task force. I'm gonna say today. If you think that everything needs to be written to the municipality, I also have experience in working in the municipality, I say that the municipalities are quite smart and proactive in solving such issues. I answered the previous questioner here and said that I myself was responsible for this area (until blankets, drinking water and, I don't know, mattress) in one municipality in the early 2000s, but then this area certainly did not bear the name of population protection. Really, there are places where the equipment is available, certainly not in all municipalities, but in the larger ones. I think that there are also the smaller municipalities that have mobilised, let us say, certain resources in the event of a crisis. You asked how the information was organised. When I just answered ten minutes ago, I said that communication of danger is the most critical area. When you think about where this greatest question mark can be about how to organise work, it is about communicating danger. The state, including the Prime Minister, has a certain possibility, for example, to order people to be informed of the danger by SMS, but it is believed that There are very different ways of communicating the threat. First of all, there is news: radio, television, online. From there, people's personal communication equipment comes along, and in some cases door - to - door visits. It cannot be excluded that in the event of any moments of danger or crisis, all three, four or five options are in operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U37	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! Did I get the real end of your speech right? You said something about the concept coming up first, and when additional resources are needed in areas for the protection of the population, this will be considered when the next budget strategy comes up. Perhaps you will play this financial commitment to the next Riigikogu, probably to the next government, somehow pushed ahead and too far. Of course, I am not at all satisfied with your budget strategy, which in good times leads us to deficit, but the resources seem to be emerging. Is that it? Secondly, what about Plan B if the security situation deteriorates sharply?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U39	I am, of course, very embarrassed to say this, but no, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, you did not understand me correctly, you did not get it right at all. After all, it is the government, the Prime Minister, who is always wanted to know the real steps. Whether the concept of population protection exists or does not exist, real steps have already been taken within the framework of this coalition for the benefit of population protection, also budgetaryly. Let us mention, for example, the free will of sprayers and the increase in the number of regional police officers or the rapid response capacity of the police. It's all about population protection. So no, it is certainly not that we are waiting for one piece of paper and only then are we going to take real financial steps from the point of view of the budget or budget strategy. The truth is that once this concept is completed and the government discusses it, of course, the picture is clear. I very much hope that this concept will reach the government at the end of this year. The Task Force thinks it's coming to the government in November. I think it will be there at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year at the latest. This is sufficient time for, in addition to what is already being done and what has been done by previous governments, even more seriously, more concretely, to put these things into the budget in more detail. They are recorded in their budgets by the local authorities, but not only by the companies that are active in this field. So, yes, unfortunately, you misunderstood.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U40	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The ice is on the move, I'm glad to hear it. But when I listened to the answers, I thought, too. These supplies we're talking about have owners somewhere. How does the state still ensure that they exist somewhere, and where are they? The question is, this whole thing, this emergency situation needs to be practiced. I myself dealt with this in my own time when, for example, the conversion of the ammonia cistern that we talked about today was practiced. But all of this requires resources. If it is a state structure, then perhaps there are resources. But if private structures are also required, how will they still be involved? Besides, it's costing private structures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U42	Thank you. Yeah, well, the last questioner asked about plan B. I'll come to that soon, but first I'll answer your question. I myself have participated in exercises and exercises involving representatives of the local government and the public sector, as well as representatives of the private sector. All of them have worked to solve one, two or three crises. I think it was a real exercise where I personally participated. You asked me how the equipment was. Paragraph 36 of the Emergency Act contains a list of vital services and institutions that organise their continuity. Who are they? For example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications organises the continuity of the following vital services (I mention only a few): natural gas supply, electricity supply, telephone services, data communication services, etc. The Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for health services. Eesti Pank is responsible for payment services and cash circulation. Local authorities with more than 10000 inhabitants organise district heating, ensure local road driving and are responsible for water supply and sanitation. But in this sense, I fully agree with the questioner that when we meet the task force, we always think about it, I think it is also right, how these gears work and this cooperation works in very large municipalities. I'm sorry, but the first thought that comes to my mind is what happens if something happens to drinking water in the capital. We can leave out the neighborhood of Nõmme and Pirita that can't get water from Lake Ülemiste, but all the other parts of town can. I think that the city of Tallinn Veel or Tallinn has these plans. Another example: For some reason, district heating fails in winter. I also told a member of the Free Party Group, Külliki Hatter, that the most critical aspect is the communication of danger at the moment. Drinking water is, but we have to tell people not to drink it for this reason and for that reason. Then the "Actual Camera" is no longer enough, it needs to be done now, very quickly. If there is a natural disaster, people must evacuate from their home to B. Do we have these places and how to inform the people about them? This is all on the table right now, and I think that solutions need to be developed in this concept. The previous questioner asked if we had a version or a variant or an alternative B. I don't know exactly what the questioner meant by that, but this whole thing means considering different alternatives. For example, whether a household has to go somewhere in the shadow of their home or, on the contrary, not to move out of their home, must stay at home. I think these alternatives need to be considered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U43	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. My question is very simple and allows you to give a very personal answer. In the pre-war Republic of Estonia, the basis for population protection was formulated with a very simple sentence: "The protection of the population begins with every person, his awareness and his activities. " How would you put the protection of the population of the 21st century simply and in a way that is understandable to everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U45	Thank you. We are dealing with the protection of the population in all our recent documents in a much more broad, broad-based way. You mentioned the pre-war Republic of Estonia. These threats are not different at the moment, they have simply been added so much. When it comes to the fact that each person or household is responsible for itself and we have to be careful, for example, the Rescue Board website contains the recommendations that people should have at home. I remember that when the electricity went out quite frequently decades ago, the candles, matches, etc. had to be at home. The Rescue Board specifically explains what kind of supplies people should have at home, which are the recommended supplies. For example, it talks about a supply of drinking water, which could be three liters a day for a person, tells us what kind of food supply could be at home, which canned foods, packets, cereal products, etc., it also says that for young children there could be, for example, a milk substitute powder, puree powder, how long they could be stored. There is also talk about how this food should be stored at home, what temperature it should be, how long it could be to be stored, and this information comes from the Ministry of Rural Affairs. There is also talk about what might exist in the everyday household. Like I said, candles, matches, batteries, different batteries, battery bank for cell phones, consumer goods, major medications, flashlights. They're listed as recommended. I referred to the existence of specific guidelines in Lithuania. I guess that list should come up. If you want me to tell you the final definition, I think the situation has changed a little bit. On the one hand, the household itself must, of course, stand up for its own safety, but this does not mean that the state should not use certain proactive activities, teaching, informing or warning, but it must also prepare to act in a crisis situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U46	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U47	Thank you. You said that warning and information are very important. It's true. But people must have somewhere to go when the bombing planes are already in the air and the missiles have been launched. 60 kilometers north of us is a country where basically there is a shelter for every resident. In Estonia, unfortunately, in the 1990s it was found that we did not need it and the civil defence system was demolished. Is there a way to protect people in a real battle? Secondly, if people survive the attack, they need to be evacuated, taken somewhere, fed, provided with what they need. How far is it to complete the law on requisitions? Under this law, the state could involve private property, vehicles, etc., and the Defence Forces could also use tractors, combiners or excavators.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U48	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U49	How far is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U50	Thank you. I will start first by saying that Estonia is a peaceful country. There is no war hysteria in Estonia today, on 11 September 2017. No threat assessment shows that. It's very important. The Prime Minister gets these threat reports quite often. I think giving adequate information to the population is very important. Your question, of course, was extreme. First of all, there is, of course, no shelter or shelter base like that in the country you mentioned, which is 60 or 80 kilometres north of us, in Estonia at the moment. It has to work, it has to work. How well is the use of private property regulated in such a situation? I think it's good enough. At the moment, in times of crisis, this has been a natural disaster or, for example, a disaster in a large apartment building, the places where people have been moved were mainly school buildings, in some places also day centres, that is to say, local authorities. I will give an example from my experience. In 2003, several dozen households had to be evacuated from their homes. Then, that night, no one knew if leaving home meant one night or several months. There was an explosion in the building where these people lived. It has to be acknowledged that even for a municipality the size of Tallinn, it was a pretty big nut and a problem with how to solve this issue if this situation lasts several months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U51	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The population protection task force is faced with a complex task, the concept and the basis for its implementation must be developed. It needs cooperation from all ministries, and there is also a local level. There will be legal, environmental, defence, social and other problems. There should therefore be a management body in the protection of the population. How do you feel about that? We need a nationwide, interministerial coordination centre. The Population Protection Task Force works under the Ministry of the Interior. What is the balancing role of broad-based national defence in the work of this task force?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U53	Thank you. As far as I know, this task force is working at the State Chancellery. But that's it. If you asked if there was a need for a general co-ordinator for the protection of the population or who was responsible for it, my answer is yes, it is necessary. I very much hope that, with the work they are doing, in the concept they are drawing up, we will be able to put in place in the country the main responsible or coordinator at times of crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U54	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! You were talking about a threat assessment here, but it's kind of a joke. In Finland, it is true that if the building is designed and its area exceeds a certain number of square meters, there must be a civil shelter below it. I asked your predecessor, a young man and the Prime Minister. He was suggesting why these shelters, when we have midland anti-aircraft missiles. I'm afraid this young man doesn't even know what a midland anti-aircraft missile is. But this is very serious. The threat assessment may change in six months, but it won't build shelters in six months. So my advice to you is to take this cloak building and this requirement seriously. Good luck to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U56	I'll start at the end: for strength! With the broad concept of civil protection, I have been exposed to the example of the capital and quite seriously. If you suggest that we take this seriously, I completely agree with that. I think this needs to be taken very seriously. I cannot tell you today how many shelters should be and what exactly are the requirements under which houses they should be built, but it is clear that it is now rather a gap in our activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U57	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! National defence is already being spoken about in our society and very much, debates are going to the mass media, it is being spoken about. Unfortunately, there is not so much talk about the protection of the population, it is like being part of an orphan. We already know a little bit about what we should be at home and how we should behave in certain situations, but it seems to me that the skills we can handle within a week or two are low. I mean, whether we can give first aid and whether we can cope with a situation where there is no electricity, can't cook or can't get water out of the well. We don't have that kind of basic skills. We should have programmes and funding to remind people of and teach them throughout their lives, these programmes should also be for communities. Does the government intend to develop such specific long-term programmes and finance them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U59	Thank you. I'm not as critical of our people as you are. When I look at my generation, I see that my generation's parents and grandparents are very well equipped with the skills to cope with these moments. Perhaps you can argue about the readiness of people, depending on whether they live in a city or in a rural area. But I think people know that pretty well because of their life experience. The truth is that in many cases, for example, when there is no electricity, water is no longer available from the well. Of course it's a problem. Gradually, we can see that in rural areas, too, water supply requires not a well-cave but electricity. In some places, there are both possibilities, one way or the other. You asked if it was planned to inform the population. Yes, this is certainly being done in the context of population protection activities. I said before, maybe you didn't notice, but teaching, informing and warning the population is all there in these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U60	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! It has already been mentioned how far ahead of us the Finns are in solving the problem of population protection. Recently, the press has also talked about the fact that the Swedes have recently taken this issue very seriously and that there will be an additional amount of hundreds of millions in the state budget in the coming years. Do we have an additional amount planned for the state budget for the following year? You have said that this is what the country's budget strategy envisages. But what exactly will happen next year and the next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U62	Thank you. This example of your Kingdom of Sweden, of course, I think, is a good lesson for us too. You asked whether specific amounts were foreseen. The answer is yes. For example, extra funding for free-will sprayers and the same thing I have already said: police, regional police, constables. This is real action and I hope that it will be primarily preventive action to protect the population. The rapid response capacity of the police will be increased. In answer to your serious question, your heart may be content. We are now talking not only about the national budget strategy, but about the project that we are presenting to you. Of course, it is your decision how you will see the budget for next year, but those amounts are already in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U63	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas! I'm opening negotiations. Arthur Talvik on behalf of the heirs. It's not on behalf of the inquisitors. Sure, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U64	What's not? Oh, my signature's not here!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U65	The heirs didn't want to talk, Artur Talvik speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U66	Okay, I'll tell you. [[Laughing.]] Thank you for this excellent opportunity and, of course, thank you to the Prime Minister on behalf of the people who have asked these questions. My signature wasn't on that paper, but the answers were good. In fact, they show that something is still changing in our view of population protection or even broader national defence, with a finer name for a new approach to national defence. I've spent a lot of time on TV in the last few days, which I don't usually do at all. Please do not misunderstand, I have not done so in perverse interest, but I could say that I have followed events in the Caribbean archipelago and the state of Florida with half a professional interest. It may sound brutal, but the way it works and the information it gets from the news is actually very interesting. Let me give you an example. There are electric cars in America. When people began to evacuate with electric cars, there were, for example, very, very many stationary cars 80 to 100 miles from Miami, which could not move forward because there was no electricity or the possibility of charging, there were no charging points. That's how they stood there. It is also very interesting to observe how the American Government and all government agencies provide information to people, how it is thought out, how organisations work together very well and how tasks are distributed between them. It's like learning material. But despite the fact that things have been thought through in detail, in such crisis situations, things happen that no one has ever thought through. The main problem with the protection of the population is perhaps that our past or, let's say, the Soviet legacy... Can I talk to you for a while?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U67	Do you have a wish?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U68	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U69	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U70	A Soviet legacy, which we call civil protection. Times have changed and population protection has become a much more complex or complex system. On the other hand, civil defence still meant that there was a plan somewhere upstairs, and it was beat to the head, or the citizenry's readiness for crises, rather meant leaning on the government of the country. Since, for a very long time, during previous governments, people's protection was not dealt with, there have been so-called communities or organisations below trying to patch this hole. This has created a situation where, in turn, different perceptions and conflicts may arise in the course of cooperation between the state and the citizen society. The concept of protection of the population is therefore essential. The main part of this concept should be (referred to by Krista Aru) such an Estonian pre-war approach to the protection of the population: the security of the state and the protection of the population of the state begin with the resident himself, the citizen himself. But to do that, you need to teach a citizen. It takes courage to teach. Among many citizens, the so-called principle of "learned helplessness" has unfortunately spread; they have the understanding that it is simply taking a mobile phone and inviting someone to help. They don't think about what happens when the cell phone doesn't work, they don't think about what happens when the stores don't work. I very much hope that people who think this way have also looked at the events taking place in America, where panic broke out very quickly, before the storm, shops were bought out, drinking water and fuel ran out very quickly, and there were other problems. I would also like to draw special attention to one very crazy head of state who is experimenting with all kinds of long-range missiles and hydrogen bomb and atomic bomb. Tallinn is the closest NATO capital to this crazy head of state. It is therefore important to think, even if something happens, for example, that a nuclear cloud is coming at us, where we put our people. We don't have a chance right now, or, let's say, it's small. I hope that the Free Party Group will eventually also receive the answer from the state structures that will be taken in such situations in relation to the placement of shelters and people. But once again, thank you to the Prime Minister. I think we're all on the right track. I very much hope that the protection of the population will not become 'professional' and it will be understood that, on the one hand, there is a great deal to be done by citizens themselves and communities and, on the other hand, the task of the state is to teach and help these communities in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U71	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U72	Honourable Chairman! Good Prime Minister, thank you for answering the questions. I want to talk about two things. One topic is what a good colleague, Artur, talked about half of it. In his answers, the Prime Minister mentioned that he did not think that his generation or his older generation would be helpless. I believe that all the people in this Chamber can handle themselves in a crisis situation, rather we should pay attention to this so-called smartphone generation. Today may not be so bad, but tomorrow some people might think that there is an app to close the bleeding, because belief in the digital world is just so great and invincible. In a crisis situation, the rescue chain always operates from the bottom up: the household, the community, the municipality, the state. The state and the municipality can be obliged by law to do something in a crisis situation, and recommendations can be made to the community and the household. These recommendations need to be shared much more forcefully in the future than the advice on the Rescue Board's website, because I think there are a very large number of people who do not even know that the Rescue Board has a website, not to mention reading them. There's one more thing on your mind. Hey, let's finish this shelter story! There was no shelter for every person in the Soviet Union either; there will never be a place for every person in Estonia in the shelter; it is a utopia. In Helsinki, there is no place for every person in the shelter. Helsinki has a subway and it is believed that if... people will be taken into shelter. In Helsinki, the construction of shelters began again with real experience, when Helsinki was bombed during the winter war. I used to write about it that history always makes the mistake of preparing for the so-called last war. Today's war is not World War II, as the bombing airstrip approached, the anti-aircraft arena began to roar, and people went to an organized shelter. Now that siren won't even be able to roar when there's a Iskander rocket flying at supersonic speed. Even a shelter doesn't work, even if it does exist. We started building national defence from scratch, and we were betting on the Defence Forces. We were guided by the principle that our main task of national defence is deterrence: arms, effective Defence Forces and a functioning Defence League. Even if every person in Estonia had a place in a shelter with sufficient stock of macaroni, this would not have a less daunting effect on the potential aggressor. So what do we do? Why don't we just sit in the shelter and wait for us to get conquered? We would then pour the money for defense development and armaments into concrete. I don't want to talk about the shelter anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U73	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U74	Good Chairman! Perhaps it would be wise to change the current format so that those who have submitted an inquiry could make comments to the whole discussion, including calls, which might be more reasonable. But I was driven here by the Prime Minister's answer to my question, which began to scratch and scratch my soul again, as I have said here before. The Prime Minister was a little distracted by my question of whether we're going to report something to the local governments again, whether they're really so stupid they can't invent anything on their own. My message is this. In terms of government governance, 2017 will be remembered for the implementation of the municipal reform. It is unlikely that this reform will remain based on the so-called 5000 population criteria, rumors are that the next stage, with a limit of 20,000 people, will be imminent. After all, this reform has remained incomplete because we have not wanted to launch a broad debate on what the division of tasks between the institutions and the revenue base could be, we have not talked about whether the municipality or any institution can establish revenue itself or whether the state is helping to create these opportunities. When we talk about broad-based national defence, we cannot say that even though the municipality does, it will bring communities and businesses together and try to create cooperation. But there is a need to create preconditions and guarantees for the municipality to have the courage to do so, and positive examples are needed. The two previous speakers, I think Brilliantly brought out these pains. Madis just referred to it. You can force and tell me what to do. Communities and businesses are certainly the helpers who will help to implement it. But if we don't play through and realize how information moves, how money moves, how money moves, this question is inseparable from it, then it's all going to be somehow incomplete. It is important to go through the standards of how to behave, for example, in the case of a natural disaster, which may be the most likely crisis, climate change will make us think about it. I do not believe that we are quite safe from major natural disasters and that our future generations are particularly at risk. We must not hide our heads in the sand, but we must act actively. Similarly, training which could be carried out by executive power is important. One thing is the activity of educational institutions, but the other is whether we can and do know and what is the right form of cooperation between the community, entrepreneurs and local authorities. Why do I consider this to be very important? In autumn, larger municipalities have emerged since the municipal reform. There are now more parties who should be more responsible for and accountable for their local territory. If we are not able to maintain trust between ourselves now, because of the merger of smaller municipalities, there is still a very active ripping of power to find out which former local government body, say, the political body will prevail, then we cannot talk about the trust that we need, for example, in the event of disasters, if we give such a simpler example. This goodwill, a positive willingness to help, to give guarantees on the executive side is very important in this matter. We must not underestimate the role of any party here, but we must give support. As Artur suggested, we have a certain vacuum and this vacuum must be filled with this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U75	There's no more calls. As is appropriate under our rules, the addressee will have the opportunity to speak before the negotiations are concluded. This opportunity is being taken by the Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U76	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I sincerely thank you for bringing this matter into focus and also for asking about it. When Artur Talvik was talking here, I thought we didn't use the word 'over-party' very much, but I think this topic of population protection is purely something that should be super-party. Mr Milling said that although the EKRE Group was asked about shelters, we forget about them, etc. I was thinking about what happened to me ten years ago in the United States. Fortunately, at least so far, we have not had very powerful tornadoes. There it is. I remember I was just in a museum when there was a signal that a tornado was coming. The people who were in the museum were taken to the basement of a building. I wouldn't say it was a shelter. It was just a strong building, maybe it was built a little harder. I also do not think that we should start building shelters for every person, but it is important to think about where people have, for example, during a natural disaster, I am not talking about any of the missiles that you have brought here, for example, to be able to hide. I do not think that this should be a matter of concern; it should be discussed. Neither do I think the territory of the municipalities should be plowed and the shelters built there, I think this time is over. But when I think about this particular example, there really was a television connection, it was possible to find out what the weather was like, and at one point it could go out and continue its journey. But yes, thank you very much to the six members of the Free Party Group. This is a very important issue and we will certainly take it very seriously. September 1st should be the day for the Riigikogu that all 101 members go home in a good mood and bragging, not so that the heart is scratched here. If there's anything you can do, of course I'll support you on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U77	An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, after the hammer strikes, it is possible to register for the first time at this VI session in a free microphone. Please! George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U79	Mr President! We are now finishing the first day of the autumn 2017 session of the Riigikogu. Of course, this day has not been very long and laborious. The political content of this day is undoubtedly two programmatic speeches that we heard today from this speaker, one was the speech of the President and the other was the speech of the President of the Riigikogu, Lord Nestor. I do not want to touch on the President's speech now, but I will say a few words about Mr Nestor's speech. I have to say, I really liked this speech, and that's why I came here on the remote. This reminded me of the Eiki Nestor whom I remember from the VII, VIII and IX Riigikogu, who was undisputed charismatic authority on all the social issues that were at issue. When he said some number, he said it quickly out of his mind, and I never thought to doubt that the right number could be something else because he possessed his own subject. Today he performed in a completely different field, but with the same sovereign confidence. I've never heard him talk about it like that before. Maybe it's my fault, maybe he's done it, but I haven't heard it or I haven't remembered it. Among the topics he mentioned today, there were at least three thematic groups for which I very much want to agree with him. First of all, he drew our attention to the fact that under the flag of the state reform, all kinds of stupid and absurd plans are being carried out in Estonia, such as the reduction of the number of members of the Riigikogu. In my opinion, this is a practically unworkable idea, not to mention that it is not necessary. Mr Nestor also mentioned various confusions in our country over 25 years, where improvements would be needed. My theory is that without repairing these things, we can't go on. This issue needs to be raised. The issue of the right to stand as candidates for elections and the topic of funding political parties is more painful than these. But he also took up a topic that concerns us, i.e. our work in the Riigikogu. That was perhaps the most important thing. I hope Mr. Nestor will read my speech or at least be told about it. You see, there is not so much time left until the end of this work, there are less than two years left. When the Rules of Procedure need to be dealt with, it is high time to begin. If you don't do it now, you won't get it done, that's the amount of work you're doing. So my question is whether Mr Nestor's speech will also follow his practical steps and those of other people. I myself have drawn attention to the various problems in the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Today, on the first day of the session, I was able to experience another mess in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which may not matter to many. In fact, one of the tasks of the Riigikogu is to provide the Supreme Court with answers on the constitutionality of various cases. Today, two cases of the Law on bailiffs were discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the law on misdemeanour proceedings. In both cases, it is important that this is not really the subject of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; it is the subject of the Committee on Legal Affairs. If there are not enough people in the Committee on Legal Affairs or if there are not enough people there, then these officials could be relocated there and hired people in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who are dealing with constitutional issues. Many such things, just as work is done, are, in fact, a waste of industriousness or of the spirit of time and people. Mr Nestor, if you're going to deal with the Rules of Procedure, I'd be happy to come with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U80	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U81	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! At three o'clock today, when the Riigikogu opened another VI session of its composition, I was proud, obliged to work and welcome my country and its highest legislative body. When I listened to the President of the Riigikogu and to the President of the Riigikogu, it seemed to me, and at that point I sincerely believed that yes, now this session of the Riigikogu is starting work, because the first question that was on our agenda touched on such an important issue as the protection of the population. However, when I saw that, after the formal opening of the sitting, the hall was filled with talk again, with the chitchat of chairs, and that only members of the Free Party Group were sitting in the empty hall, I was very sorry, embarrassing and sad. In the autumn of this year, on 15 November, 100 years have passed since the legal declaration of the Republic of Estonia. This autumn is special, the work of this Riigikogu is special. Not only should we feel responsible for the work done by previous generations, but we should have the courage to make those decisions within this composition, which can be enjoyed by all the next generations, so that they can enjoy the same pride and joy, and that pride and joy over the industriousness, diligence, honesty and standing up for their country and their parliament could last not only half an hour, but much longer. I really want all representatives of the people to think seriously about the 100th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. It's not just a distant past or history, it's our own day. We may have to force ourselves to work sometimes, but work for this country is necessary. Good luck with all of us in this very important work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-11_U82	Since there are no more requests to speak, I will close the free microphone and open all the microphones in this hall tomorrow at 10:00. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 5.12.
