ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday of the 11th working week. It is now possible for all those who wish to submit drafts or inquiries. There is no wish to do so, which is why we can carry out a presence check. Checking for presence. 63 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 38 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U2	We will begin the review of the items on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' of the Riigikogu decision, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. For a presentation, please address Vladimir Velman, member of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 4 December, provides to exclude the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe from the composition of the Estonian delegation Andrei Novikov and to appoint Tiit Terik as a member of the delegation. No amendments were tabled by the deadline set by the Riigikogu's Management Board, 18 December at 4 p.m. The Committee on Foreign Affairs took the following procedural decisions on the draft: It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft be placed on the agenda of the 553 plenary session of the Riigikogu by Thursday, 14 December. The Committee on Foreign Affairs proposes that the draft be put to a final vote and adopted as a decision. The draft rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is here the speaker. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U4	Good waitress, colleagues don't have any questions for you. I will open negotiations and remind you that only the representatives of the political groups can speak during the negotiations on the draft decision. There are no requests to speak. As no amendments to this draft decision were tabled, we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? There are no objections. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, draft 553. Please take a stand and vote. There were 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The decision has been taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U5	Our second item today is... Ladies and gentlemen, the buzz is getting really big! Our second item today is the draft law amending the law on the election of the local government council and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 522. Kalle Laanet, a member of the Riigikogu, makes a report on the initiators. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Once, when our former colleague Rein Lang came to the remote, he always started his story so that it was a very good bill. That is what I say, too, is a very good draft, and it is in this key that we are launching a parliamentary debate on what individuals could and should belong to a local government council, or who can stand for it. Similarly, this concerns the election of the European Parliament and, of course, the election of the Riigikogu. As we have learned from the media over the past year, many officials working in the local government, or also council leaders, have had to take a road to the courthouse to explain their activities. In order to minimise such matters and to make the public feel that this situation is cleaner, we have suggested that those who have been convicted by the court and who have not been punished for committing a criminal offence should not have the right to apply to the local government council, the Riigikogu or the europarlamento. I must add immediately that the Chancellor of Justice has submitted to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs a package of proposals which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will discuss on the initiative of our Chair. But this bill is certainly also motivated by this desire to give impetus to these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U7	Dear waitress, colleagues have no questions for you. I'm sorry, they've come now. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I did not find any space in the explanatory memorandum in terms of cost savings, they are not listed here, which are these professional crimes. Would you be so kind as to list us what is currently considered professional crimes in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U9	Thank you for your question. Official crimes are listed in chapter 17 of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U10	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U11	Thank you. Good colleague! The situation now arises that persons who have been convicted of a professional crime cannot stand as candidates. But can those who have been punished for rape, harassment or theft, or criminal crime, stand as candidates?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U12	This draft has, above all, been initiated in order for a political debate to begin in this Parliament and in the government, where this line should be drawn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U13	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There is certainly a need to move forward on this issue, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will also take a stand on this matter. But my question is that if you wrote this bill and provided that the law would enter into force in general terms, what, in your opinion, the effect of this law was. What about the past local elections, whether or not it extends to them? You have noted that in the last election of councils there were about 2% of such candidates. Would that law extend to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U15	Thank you for your question. As you know, and as we all know, such laws have no retroactive effect.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U16	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U17	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, What about the criminally sanctioned running for political parties? We know we have one of those in this room.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U18	Thank you for your question. This draft does not concern legal persons. To be honest, yesterday on the Äripäev radio, I and my good colleague, Artur Talvik, discussed quite a bit about what would result if we were to extend this subject to political parties today. If you want to hear our debate, it'll be on the Äripäev radio at 10:00.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U19	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U20	Good manager! Good waitress! Yes, the restriction is when a professional crime has been committed. Why do you prefer paedophiles, rapists, robbers and such to so-called corruptions in this Chamber, in the Chamber of the European Parliament or in the Council of Local Government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U21	Thank you for your question. As I said earlier, the aim was to launch a debate that has already begun. And that's great.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U22	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'll continue with the question of the one-to-one questioner. Surely this debate on the Äripäev radio is necessary and we will listen to it with interest after the end of the working day. On the one hand, it is necessary to limit the right to stand as a candidate for certain persons who have certainly not excelled in acts outside their own people and have committed a crime, namely stealing taxpayers' money. But do we accept, in the sense of law, the fact that we have a party in the government who has been convicted of criminal offences and, indirectly, all candidates in this party are involved in these criminal offences? This may also be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, which has been said very directly about this issue. Do you see the possibility of supplementing this draft between first and second reading, and would you agree with the amendments that would draw this border further, so that the draft would also include political parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U24	I begin by saying that our home and operating procedures give all members of the Riigikogu, political groups and, of course, the government the opportunity to make amendments between the first and second readings. Let's look at the possibility of his liquidation or, let's say, the possibility of existence in political life in the case of punishment of a legal person. As a general rule, we know that violations are committed by specific individuals, whatever role they play. If we punish a legal person, a large party with, for example, over 10,000 members, its liquidation, then we actually punish all of its members by taking away the opportunity to represent their worldview. This is a very serious discussion, and when such decisions are made, they are very serious decisions. We need to find outputs for people who are not really guilty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U25	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U26	Thank you. Mr. Laane! I'm not a lawyer, but I started thinking that if an organisation is criminal and it's not criminal, then isn't the crime itself legal, and if the party is criminally punished, then his members should be subject to other rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U27	Well, from the philosophy you've developed right now, it could expand like that, yeah. We need to find an outlet for those people who are not actually directly responsible, they may be guilty only in some way indirectly, through some kind of influence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U28	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U29	Thank you. To continue with the question of the previous speaker, if this restriction is extended to the whole membership, I personally feel that this is a disproportionate restriction. But there is a question, for example, of board members. When it comes to responsibility and the activities that could have led to this criminal status in a party, could the possibility of members of the management board applying be limited?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U30	Yeah, good questioner, you got a little off the hook. Indeed, everything should be proportionate, all prohibitions, penalties and, of course, the opportunities that will be created. That is one topic that we should discuss in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U31	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I actually asked the same thing in the Commission. In some ways, as a result of this debate, I ask whether you, as initiators, made sense to differentiate these crimes. Crimes are very different, but they've all been hit with one rod or one table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U33	Thank you for your question. Once again, I stress that our most important objective is to launch a political debate. The next goal is to explain exactly where to draw this line or red line, who are those who really should not be able to apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U34	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U35	Good manager! Good waitress! Let's not just look at our belly button. I'm asking you how the same thing is regulated in other civilized countries, let's start from here in the Nordic countries and go to Germany. How are those things in there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U36	Thank you for your question. I owe you an answer, but I can give you that answer in a little while.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U37	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It's an important subject, I understand that. But can you comment on this aspect that according to the Constitution there is the right to choose and the right to be elected. What kind of collisions or disharmonics do we have here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U39	Thank you for your question. The Constitution gives the right and the opportunity, in a proportionate manner and under the conditions adopted by the legislator, to restrict the fundamental rights of a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U40	Jürgen Ligi, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U41	Thank you. Good waitress! If the purpose of this bill was to launch a debate, my question is, where is this debate now? The government has nicely mentioned one subject, i.e. crimes against the state or what the exact legal term is. It's a great addition. But it seems to me that there could be more of these potential additions here. Has the Commission tried to clarify this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U42	Thank you. A deeper and more serious debate will open in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs after the first reading has taken place in the Chamber and the debate on the package of proposals by the Chancellor of Justice has been put on our agenda. With all of this, the work of substance will be open.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U43	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U44	Good manager! Good performer! Have you discussed in the Commission such an option that, if, for example, a party turns out to be recessive, has been repeatedly punished, could there be an exception? I think we have that kind of prospect right now. On the other hand, this ban applies only during the period of validity of the sentence, after which the ban on applying would disappear under this bill. Can this be seen as a ban on competition, that if a party is punished once, it will not be able to take part in the next elections, like the Russian team and the Olympic Games?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U45	Thank you for your question. I would point out that this bill specifically concerns natural persons, not legal persons. As far as the reversibility of legal persons is concerned, we have not yet discussed this in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but we will certainly be discussing this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U46	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said yourself that drawing a red line between different crimes is a place for discussion. After all, there may be an infinite discussion of whether corruption is more dangerous than a traitor, etc. But would it not take away disputes and tensions if the law clearly states that the restriction applies to all persons who have been convicted of criminal offences?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U48	I am about to unblock the constitution and say that it may be disproportionate, because criminal law can also punish people for traffic offences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U49	Helmut Hallemaa, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U50	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! I liked the question of how far away this debate is. I'd say the debate still has a lot of room for cultural development. But here's my question. Is it quite right to compare these two things: this bill and the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice? The Chancellor of Justice's proposals are based more on preventing, preventing and clarifying conflicts of interest, both in terms of applying for and participating in the various elected collections. Is it quite right to compare these two things like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U51	I think it is in this key that, in both cases, the aim is that the air is cleaner and that governance is clearer and can be interpreted in fewer ways.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U52	Good waitress! No more questions for you. The presentation of the commission is made by Arto Aas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U53	Honourable Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed the draft submitted on Tuesday 5 December 2017. The committee was, of course, chaired by Marko Pomerants. Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laanet, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Mikhail Korb, Rein Randver and Tiit Terik were present. Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko and Markus Kärner were invited from the Ministry of Justice. I'm not going to read the protocol to you literally. We discussed the purpose and content of this draft. Kalle Laane presented the principles and purpose of the amendment. There was a friendly and open debate. It discussed what these crimes should be, whether a long list or a closed list is correct and when and to whom this restriction should be imposed. A similar debate, as was the case here just a few minutes ago, was also held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Among other things, questions were raised about the non-disclosure of the electoral rights of detainees, which, according to a number of international organisations, is a problem. Mart Nutt, for example, rightly pointed out that such a restriction could only be considered and imposed in strong democratic powers, bringing a sad example from our eastern neighbour, Russia, where the right to stand as a candidate has been taken away from Alexei Navalnyi, who has been convicted of political motives. This risk, of course, remains that if a convicted person is unable to apply, in undemocratic countries, this could lead to politicians being convicted under dubious circumstances. Among other things, the issue of what the list of crimes should be, which crimes restrict the application. Mr Kärner, of the Ministry of Justice, said that attempts to violently change constitutional order and terrorism should probably be added to that list. That makes sense. At the moment, these professional crimes are not, they are much tougher crimes. Markus Kärner's statement included the idea that this restriction may theoretically be imposed by the court as an additional penalty, so that the court decides whether or not the application limit is reasonable and necessary for some professional crimes. Such a solution is also theoretically possible, although, in the interests of legal clarity, there might be more confusion again. I will conclude with Jüri Adams' recollection of the pre-occupied Republic of Estonia, when the membership of the Riigikogu and the imprisonment were clearly kept separate. As Mr Adams recalled, prison could be served during summer breaks. In practice, I understand there was no such experience, but there were cases when the members of the Riigikogu who were already in office were convicted and sentenced to prison, which theoretically could be carried out even after the end of the term of office of the Riigikogu member and the end of the status. That's the debate we had. Since Marko Pomerants signaled that the coalition and the government were willing to discuss this issue and to seek a solution in the wider package, there were not many differences. The decision to put the draft on the agenda was reached today, 14 December, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4.15 p.m. on 2 January 2018 and to appoint Mr Aas, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as rapporteur. All these decisions were made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U54	Good waitress, you have questions. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U55	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! These nuances, such as those concerning work in the public sector, maybe the absorption of certain resources and the quiet return to this sector after the punishment has been applied, have passed through the media and discussions. Can this draft, along with the proposals of the Chancellor of Justice, solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U56	Thank you. This particular draft does not provide a solution to all these problems; it is part of this solution. Fortunately, we in the Commission now have this understanding of what we feel is that we have it on a cross-party basis, that we are looking at this package as a whole: whether criminals can apply and whether the money that has been stolen from the municipalities is being demanded. At present, the decision to recover the damage is taken by the municipality itself and, in very many cases, the municipalities have not started to claim the damage. There's such a fine golden circle of criminals: you're corrupt, you steal, nothing happens, you're convicted, you get back to power. That's great. Unfortunately, there is such practice in Ida-Virumaa. It seems to me that the Commission and the political parties have a desire to resolve this problem as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U57	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U58	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! My question is about the restrictions on the political rights of the active military. In two of the three paragraphs, the active force has been appointed and the third has not. Can it be concluded, for example, that this restriction already exists or that it is not necessary? I have another question, too. I generally accept that an active officer should not be a Member at the same time. But how do you feel, does that mean that you should necessarily refuse to apply?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U59	Thank you. I think Kalle Laane, as a waitress, would have given a better answer to the bill. I, as the representative of the Commission, owe this answer. I passed on the debate that took place at the committee meeting. We will certainly continue the debate on this issue in the Commission as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-14_U60	No further questions. I will open negotiations and recall that representatives of the political groups will be able to speak at first reading. There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 522 be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 522 amendments next year, 2 January 2018, at 4.15 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined today's agenda. Have a nice day and have a nice weekend! Closure of the sitting at 10.29 a.m.
