ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the first working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the moment when it is possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. First call chair, Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U2	Good morning, President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The Free Party Group has the power to deliver a draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and other laws. The situation that has arisen because of restrictions on political outdoor advertising has reached total absurdity. Once, under the leadership of Res Publica, if I remember correctly, these ugly, big, scary posters would be taken out of town, but the law made for this purpose has led to a relatively absurd situation. In fact, the campaigns have become even more expensive and longer, with outdoor advertising all over the place. But the absurdity has gone so far that the cheapest places for political agitation, such as Facebook, are now treated as public space and as outdoor advertising on Facebook. The Free Party wants to change this situation, above all with the aim of making the election campaign less money and much more substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U3	Thank you. Next up, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U4	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Bureau! On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I will submit a draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act to the Riigikogu procedure. The subject of the draft is the rights of teachers. I say right away that the main author of this draft is not a political group, we simply see the need to unravel this process from behind the stone, so that in the future teacher's rights will be enshrined in the law in the school. The aim is to ensure the safety of children at school in particular and, of course, to serve the wider interests of society. One of the great advantages of the Estonian school and the reasons for good results has generally been the teacher's very large decision-making power and very high professionalism. But at one point, it is the right to intervene in extreme situations, there is essentially a legal vacuum. Teachers do not know what they can do if they feel that there is a clear safety risk at school. Can they check if they can do anything at all? This knowledge is not available to teachers. Indeed, this is not stated in the law either. The problem is that in legal terms public space regulations do not extend to school in the sense of law enforcement law. A very liberal situation has arisen in which a student can send a teacher to the moon and go to school, in a bag, from a weapon to another lighter object, without the teacher being able to do anything. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In school, the only security instrument should not be calling the police...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U5	Dear waitress, the time for handing over the bill is limited. It's been 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U6	I'm sorry, I have so much to say. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] But I will say then that I will really hand over the bill and ask for a serious discussion about it. I hope that it is not the instincts of the opposition and coalition that ultimately decide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U7	At first reading of the bill, there will certainly be an opportunity to say no to everything that is in the heart. Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 87 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 14.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U8	We are going to look at the items on today's agenda, which is exactly one. This is the first reading of the Act amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Law amending the Law on Income Tax, the Social Tax Act and other laws. I ask Jürgen Ligi, a member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair to the initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Behind this long and shuffling title is a cluster bill that has been passed as a law and has been left over, as is the case with cluster medicines, without discussion. The result of the inconsistency of discussions is, in general, that an error has been made. We're just going to deal with this bunch of eggs, alcohol duty. It was clearly raised too high in the shadow of general melody. The initiator of the draft does not think for a moment that excise duty on alcohol itself is bad or that alcohol is good. On the contrary...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U10	I apologise to the waitress, but, ladies and gentlemen, it is so loud in the chat room that it is not possible to listen to the waitress. I beg you, if you'd like to speak in private, do it outside the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U11	On the contrary, we have always felt that the most effective measure of alcohol policy, but alcohol policy in the country must be effective, is an excise duty on alcohol. The draft cluster proposed that the excise duty rates should be increased, which was decided to be increased smoothly as early as 2015. In 2015, there was a sense that maybe we were about to make these appointments too high, but Sven Sester, the leader of this bill, who just left this hall, calmed us down. He was responsible for these rates. However, excise duty on alcohol is an effective measure only until such time as substitutions arise. These replacements have clearly emerged in Estonia. I do not yet dare to confirm the extent to which other substances are substituted, but if alcohol excises were increased very sharply, in addition to the current increases of 70% on beer and 45% on wine, and this increase is set to continue, then tea was opened for the replacement. We have now seen a very clear change in trade flows and cash flows. While, in general, Estonia, as a poorer country, won from a lower price level, we were bought alcohol and we received decent tourist revenues, this source of income for the economy is in itself fading. All right, we may consider it moral that we do not drink foreigners, but clearly immoral here is that we feed the same consumption of alcohol in other countries and indirectly among our citizens. If, in general, excise duty has several arguments, one is public health, one is always a budget, and one is also economic, i.e. the benefits of entrepreneurship, then at the moment it has done too much and we have crossed the border in all respects. First of all, the public health argument is no longer working in the same way, as citizens have started to buy alcohol in Latvia at a massive and accelerating rate, where it is more than three times cheaper in terms of excise duty, but almost even in terms of retail prices. This has, of course, led to the expansion of the Latvian budget, but our national budget will certainly no longer receive this money. In the other way, our budget is losing because giving this neighbour a tax advantage is devastating for our business. We can say that our alcohol dealers and producers are killers, that is what politicians have said, but in reality, this commodity is legal and decisions must be optimal. The whole South-Estonian trade suffers the worst of all from this increase in excise duty. After all, alcohol is a legal commodity that helps trade to keep overall turnover. If the price is high enough to be bought across the border, other goods will be bought across the border and will not be bought in the same way from their current store. So the economic argument also actually works on those ups that we want to stop, unfortunately. As regards the public health argument, I also mention that the acquisition of stocks is one of the things that does not contribute to the reduction of consumption. If a person is already getting a cheaper supply of alcohol, he is more likely to drink. I'll tell you a little bit about the numbers. After all, attempts have been made to assess this by means of surveys and surveys of how much goods are currently purchased from Latvia. As has been said, the difference between Estonian and Latvian excise duty on beer is more than three times the difference. Studies show that a third of people have obtained goods from Latvia, it has only just gotten started, as excise duties are growing faster and these changes are only entering into force. With these amounts of how much they buy in Latvia, I would be very careful, because if we believe in producers, we can probably delude to some extent, because they have the same interest, but we have actually been deceived by the figures of the government. The Government itself or the Ministry of Finance has corrected these estimates upwards. In any case, it is already millions of litres, although excise duties have far from had their full effect. Beer has been bought several million litres more from Latvia than has been the case so far. The consumer survey shows the consumer's own assessment, as if they were buying a quarter of alcohol from abroad after these excise increases. Once again, we may be sceptical about this assessment, but we cannot, unfortunately, be sceptical about the fact that the difference between excise duties is growing. This amount will undoubtedly increase as well. The part of Finland, how much a Finnish tourist buys here, has already clearly decreased. Alcohol producers say it's fallen from 30 million liters down. Maybe they're exaggerating when they say it's gonna fall to 10 million in a couple of years. But it's gonna fall, that's what's already happened. It is tourism revenue; it is not just alcohol trade; it is the wider tourism revenue that the country loses. Our proposal is simply to restore these, which have already seemed risky at the time, duty rise schedules, for which we decided in 2015 and which have already caused some negative effects, should not go further. But surely this step would prevent the most devastating effect that the extremely high excise duty in all the aspects I have mentioned here will have and will exert more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U12	Thank you. There are questions for the waitress. First Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U13	Thank you. Good Jurgen! Quite a review, but maybe you've had time to look at the economic forecast. Presentation of the economic forecast here in the Riigikogu, although the members of the Riigikogu Finance Committee, will take place only today. Yesterday there was a press conference, and a few large numbers were then heard, so that they could be seen and heard in more detail in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But can you give some kind of financial dimension to how much the Latvian budget has become bigger and how much excise revenue is actually not collected in the Estonian budget, because the increase in excise duty was forced up so much?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U14	Thank you. This is certainly an important question, but I have had some time since I was Minister of Finance, not to say that from before, the attitude that I will not replace forecasters, independent experts, but I will ask them. I've been following closely what someone has said. Dependent experts, or manufacturers, talk about very large sums of money. Independent experts, who actually depend on the government's decision and need to justify it to some extent now, have increased their assessment of the losses in our budget. So surely these sums are in tens of millions, I'm guessing not in hundreds of millions. However, the fact is that the second Latvian minister, I do not know whether carelessness or the desire to mock, praises the Estonian taxpayers and the Estonian government for the fact that at least tens of millions of Latvian budgets will be collected. Other revenues disappearing from our business and reduced turnover should, of course, be taken into account. In South Estonia, however, the turnover of shops is no longer maintained by alcohol, and this has a direct impact on the availability of shops, not to mention their profitability.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U15	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I was there yesterday at the presentation of the Treasury Department forecast, and I looked at the bill. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that the previous forecast reduced excise duties on alcohol by 23 million. Now, with the new forecast, it will be reduced by another 27 million. This is a total of 50 million, but the forecasters themselves have already taken into account the impact of border trade. So I'm not surprised if that figure will soon reach 100 million. And that's just an introduction. This draft, which would resolve this situation, is an extremely silly excise policy, which the current government is implementing, was not supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I asked the Minister yesterday if he was going to decide and act. The Minister replied that they would monitor the situation closely and respond if necessary. How do you yourself predict the Prime Minister has come here and said that it is necessary to decide how long it might take until the government starts deciding to stop throwing away excise money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U17	Thank you. With this bill, we have come to the rescue and given the opportunity to make a decision. There's nothing cardinal about this bill. In any case, these excise increases have already caused us damage since 2015, we hope that at least not to public health. I did not say that our alcohol consumption has decreased for years and years. This shows that excise policy has so far been actually effective and that there would have been no need to roll over. But, yeah, those sums are in tens of millions. However, I would add to the excise duty the value added tax that comes to that end and add any other taxes that are subject to changes as a result of the fall in economic activity. So the amount that the budget is already losing is still closer to 100 million than 10 million, but the pace is accelerating. These business models, routes, habits, even investments, are developing right now. We see entrepreneurs boasting about how they set up shops, and in fact we have heard in private about characters who supply alcohol across the border to certain buyers in Estonia. This commercial activity, this bag trade, we have this fine thing of pride that the Latvians can mock us about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U18	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U19	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We sometimes have joked about the fact that this premature multiple increase in excise duty is a Tallinn men's conspiracy against the South Estonians. But actually, I am pleased that you also mentioned the structure of trade and trade. The continuous closure of shops is a part of this process which cannot be considered normal. Perhaps these simple people, of whom the shop, where they can do daily shopping, is further and further away, must suffer. But if it were a miracle, today's government would reverse this excise policy and admit a mistake, would it be possible and how soon to restore normal life so that people would not buy themselves six months or, I don't know, annual stocks, because the price is so low?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U20	Thank you. When a mistake has been made, no new habits or discoverable opportunities will really be abandoned. But we hope that the positive impact on public health will compensate for it. A little excessive excise duty is not bad about public health in some respects, but it is very excessive indeed, because it is very excessive to obtain supplies, etc. There has certainly been damage to investments, that is what producers have said. Yes, they're a lobbyist, but every economist realizes that under deteriorating economic conditions, investments are being pulled back. Everyone, even a non-economicist, should understand that the existence of shops depends simply on the volume of turnover, it is important that they have enough circulation of goods from which point on, so that they can sell basic milk bread. You can't just keep the store open in a small place with milk and bread. You still have to have some sales volume to make this payback point, the choice of goods is going to suffer long before that. It's complicated, but the other way around, it's very simple. We must not damage the economy, we must not damage public health, and we should not despise the revenue from the state budget, especially in a situation where they have simply been casseroled by a neighbour with unhindered satisfaction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U21	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I very much agree with your problem setting, that is an important question. Small shops in South Estonia are particularly affected by the rise in excise duty. I'm sure it's heightened because of the last cluster law, but the history of this problem is longer. The differences in excise duty with Latvia started to rattle us before. Alkoturism went to Latvia when the honourable Vice-President of the Riigikogu behind you was the Prime Minister. These things started early. I understand that the chief architect of this reckless excise policy was Sven Sester. Please relay to us the arguments that the Reform Party had with Mr Sester in the government at the time. We here criticized the rise in excise duty when the new government was turned on, but we didn't hear about your differences. I'm assuming there were. You're a man of principle, Mr. Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U23	Thank you. Certainly the Prime Minister is responsible for everything, but more directly the ministers of the sector are responsible. There were disputes. One example is that I cannot and cannot accurately remember for years that one of the previous finance ministers was still literally refraining from following the idea that alcohol should not become relatively cheaper. This is, in the same way, a very noble principle, and this is also the way we were answered in the letter signed by Sven Sester, who was the Minister of Finance at the time, also in 2015, when these rates were raised, so that, in the future, excise duty on alcohol should even get higher. You know, it's utopia, it's only possible if we control substitutions. But that's not what I'm talking about. There is a substitution that increases consumption. The relative benefit of substitution seems to be so great the temptation of alternative substances, such as vodka, is so great when you see very expensive soft alcohol. Right now, I'm sure it'll be cheaper to mix vodka with just one of the most delicious things that vodka doesn't go down otherwise. At the same time, those who calculate very precisely are certainly young people. Mixing cocktails is likely to produce a more delicious result than a slightly bitter and voluminous beer. If there's a price difference, it's done. So everything has a limit, every price increase has a limit. For 2015 I am not so much in the eyes of the way ministers reacted. I remember myself, I was holding back from being the Minister of Finance, who I wasn't for a while, but I listened to my officials, how they billed and were clearly amazed, describing the risks of the income forecast. As early as 2015, there was a sense that it was not worth taking a suitcase full of alcohol to Finland, but it was worth transporting the goods the other way around. So I admit that the 2015 decision was risky, but I wouldn't go so far as to cancel it. In a sense, inflation and revenue growth smooth it over time. The growth in the income of Estonians has certainly been so rapid that this effect will quietly dissipate itself. The fact that in Latvia goods are very cheap, some goods, especially beer, has certainly not only caused excise duty, but there is also a very large income gap, i.e. shops can afford smaller margins, but I suspect there is something else. I suspect that what I know about Latvian tax discipline is also reflected in retail prices. So these purchasing incentives are in themselves an objective fact even without excise duty, but the question is in volume. At the moment, this is a very rapid increase in purchasing. Listen to the Latvian ministers if you doubt that this bill is some sort of oppositional spite.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U24	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good colleague, waitress! I am glad that the excise duty was raised even before I came to the Riigikogu, this problem has not arisen now and today. First of all, I have a short question. Why, then, is tax-discipline better in Latvia than we do? But my main question is the discussion you've initiated. You stressed the tourism problem, we're losing the number of tourists. Secondly, regional policy came out of the round of questions and answers, in particular, that the development of South Estonia would be thwarted. My question to you as a geographer is substantive: why are we not dealing with substantive issues? After all, the tourist is not just a vodka boater, and in fact South Estonia cannot develop only through the sale of wine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U26	Thank you. Of course, Latvia's tax-istipline is not better, but worse. That's not news. Higher tax rates and far lower receipts are evidence of this. I don't know that much about their alcohol excise discipline, but there are also prevention channels. Speaking of higher rates, I was talking not about excise duty, but about income tax and VAT. Why aren't we working? 'We' is like an abstract set. They're working on it. I can assure you that the current government, too, will certainly pump very large amounts of support for tourism directly and also for the rafts. Tourism has become more diverse and there is nowhere to feel that tourism is only alcohol. But tourism is something that is still accompanied by a small memorial, which can very often be local alcohol. We should not turn this small souvenir purchase or village purchase into a bag trade. This has already happened, Estonians have become bag traders in Latvia, and that is the problem. Intermediaries have emerged, even Estonian companies that invest in Latvia have emerged. If you think this is producer lobby, I can say that I am keeping as much distance as possible with producers. However, I must say that I have been told that we will not lose it. The increase in turnover at the border means income for the group as a whole, not withdrawal. So those big beer producers who are always charged with representing those who say that vodka should not be favoured compared to lean alcohol are not, in fact, very unhappy, they simply give up their investments in Estonia, they have done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U27	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U28	Thank you. Jürgen, I will give you an opportunity to clarify a further answer to Mr Herkel's question. This need for clarification is rather due to the fact that no one denies the impact of alcohol excise duties on both public health and the state budget, both arguments being entirely appropriate. It has always been clear that the price of alcohol affects consumption the most, and consequently health effects will certainly exist. But as for this particular increase in the rate of excise duty, it's important here whether or not you're screwing up at one point. I understand that we have now reached a position where the winch is actually turned over. The fact that excise was also raised under our leadership was correct, but it must be borne in mind that 10 kilos of ice cream is also dangerous to eat. Maybe you'll give Herkel another answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U29	Thank you. I was trying to start by saying that the question is not that we should argue about the harmfulness of alcohol. This harmfulness is undeniable, alcohol policy must be effective and restrictive, but I did not want to argue, as I said, about excise duty. Alcohol duty is very good, very noble liver. But everything good gets poisoned and suffocating when it's too much. Today, he has become suffocated for public health, for the state budget and also for the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U30	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Listening to you and your knowledge, I do not understand whether the former Foreign Minister or former Minister of Education is speaking at the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U32	Thank you. I can't help you here. In your ignorance, I cannot help you unless you express your ignorance sufficiently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U33	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U34	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I agree with quite a number of facts and references that you have highlighted both in the draft explanatory memorandum and in the current statement. But there's one thing I just want to ask you over. There are quite a number of facts about numbers, and in this sense they can be verified. You referred to the fact that instead of bitter beer, more sweet cocktails would be used as a substitute, although I see that the levels of heavy alcohol are also falling. Did you just have a sense of feeling, or do you already have any specific analysis of the use of the so-called replacement goods that you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U35	Thank you. It was a very good start, I hope the end will be as good. You started by agreeing with me a lot. You disagreed on a matter that you had heard wrong. I'm going to be more specific: I didn't say it would fall. I pointed out that these trends, these trends are just getting stronger and there is an incentive to start mixing cocktails instead of annoyingly heavy and, in some words, not delicious enough beer. I was pointing out that we know how to predict the effects and this way to the future. The consumption of vodka in Estonia has been a bigger problem than the consumption of lean alcohol in other countries, but nevertheless, due to the current increases in excise duty, I am now rounding up a bit, because the formula contains a large number of variables that have received the relatively highest lean alcohol excise duty from Estonia in the European Union. I mean, we've overtaxed beer in two respects, compared to vodka taxation and compared to the size of our incomes, compared to everyone else. In the case of wine, I'd be more careful, it's a messier picture. Very many countries do not have this excise duty, and it is a foreign commodity whose price is very volatile anyway. Traditions, etc., but yes, above all, we crossed the line with beer, which, in the first stage, immediately ran out of 75%, was added to the wine by 45%. When an incentive is created, a wise person knows the effects. We have had periods when vodka has become more popular, and now is the time when vodka has been a little more unpopular. I don't know why it's necessary to get involved. The effect of strong alcohol is much more sudden, his aim is much more straightforward than lean alcohol, say, mildly administered usually is. Anyone who wants a one-way effect quickly chooses strong alcohol. The most enthusiastic minister from here has told us how some discoveries have been made that lean alcohol is also very bad. We still know the difference between a culture of consumption, where the risks are higher and where the risks are smaller. So it's worth avoiding them. The fact that we somehow harmonised the rates of excise duty is actually silly. Excise duty rates are not harmonised in themselves. We are not taxing the alcohol molecule, we are taxing the final price, and the final price of lean alcohol is already high in advance because of the higher cost price. This means that lean alcohol can be controlled by less priced alcohol than pure alcohol.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U36	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U37	I'm taking the opportunity to defend the bill by someone who likes to discuss what's going on in society. I've been wondering one thing. When this topic arose, it turned out that the Estonians went to Latvia to buy a drink was news, it arouses wonder and is a problem. But the fact that Finns have been doing this in Estonia for a hundred years is not news, it does not arouse surprise and is not a problem. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U38	Thank you. I briefly referred to this dilemma or moral paradox. Indeed, it has its advantage that we no longer drink Finns. But if you look at trends, this problem, drinking Finns, is disappearing, retreating. It's just that there's a line somewhere. Finns are certainly less sensitive to prices than ours, and they also get their alcohol bought quite well at Finnish prices. Their alcohol consumption has decreased less than the alcohol consumption of Estonians. So it is good to say that Estonians already drink less, even though Finns have started to drink a little less. We could treat these processes in society more liberally in this sense, so that, if anything has already happened, we should not squeak and punish, as if we were giving more impetus, but use less stringent methods to support trends. Why is that bad, Mr. Nestor? I think that alcohol itself is bad, and now that we've become alcoholics, we're just going to live through what we didn't feel so much about Finns. The Finns have improved themselves too, it's just a matter of pace. Whether we have to worry more about North or South-Estonia trade, that is also a question. The nature of Estonian tourism has, of course, become more cultural; instead of vodka tourists, there are more restaurant tourists that we could still want here. In this area, we can better show our environment and culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U39	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! On behalf of the commission, I would like to ask Priit Sibula, Member of the Monetary Commission for a chair as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U40	Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Vice President! The Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft as early as 13 June. The members of the Commission were not present at the meeting by Martin Helme and Jürgen Ligi, who had just presented the draft, and Einar Vallbaum was replaced by Tarmo Kruusimäe. In the Commission, Mr Aivar Sõerd presented the draft at least as thoroughly. I am not going to talk about what the bill contains, because Jürgen Ligi has already given us an overview. Initiators have no doubt that excise duties are an effective method to limit the consumption of goods with harmful side effects and therefore support the 2015 rates. In the Commission, the Ministry of Finance was represented by Heidi Vessel, chief specialist of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy, and Risto Kaarna, chief analyst of the Department of Fiscal Policy. The Government of the Republic did not support this draft. It was noted that the introduction of excise duties at the level of the 2015 draft does not help to reduce alcohol consumption. However, in the changes made at the end of 2016, apart from the increase in excise duty, another important aspect was to reduce the difference in the rate of excise duty on strong and lean alcohol. That's what my colleague Ligi just told us. Reducing the difference in excise duty rates will ensure a more equal taxation of alcohol. From a health point of view, it is not justified to give preference to one type of alcoholic beverage to another. Loose alcoholic beverages are more associated with young people's alcohol consumption and the emergence of new groups of consumption. Such understandings were also shared by a representative of the government, rather a representative of the Ministry of Finance. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] In the Commission, of course, the same issues were being discussed, as was discussed here too, the border trade, the growing problem at the southern border and the reduction in alcohol sales at the northern border. Let me remind you that we discussed this during the summer and then there was no Supreme Court ruling. At the time, the question of when and with what content the Supreme Court would decide, whether our tax changes are constitutional or not, was still in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We now know that a judgment has come in this regard and that this excise law was not declared illegal, although such fear was at some point. The Commission decided to appoint me rapporteur and to propose to reject the draft at first reading. There were six participants in favour and two against, with no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U41	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Andres Herkel, first, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Onion! In view of the fact that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has two coalition members elected from South-East Estonia, you as well as Mr Kalvi Küla, I have one question. I think it is natural that in this committee, however, the fate of small shops in South Estonia is such a separate topic that should have been discussed both in the context of this draft law and in previous decisions on excise increases. Please tell me how much this has been discussed and how you see this problem. I went there more systematically in the winter, in Tsorus, in some places and elsewhere, and also in contact with shopkeepers there. Then Apes had no new liquor stores yet to open. You didn't stop at that aspect. How many shops are closed, and how does the difference in alcohol excise affect shopping in South Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U43	Thank you. As has been said here before, I think that in itself it is not even limited to small shops in South Estonia. I don't know how much you helped the small shops and bought alcohol from them when you visited them, but I'm sure that's a problem, as has been said before. Surely we have no reason to talk about it, and I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who thinks that only alcohol is sold there. However, different groups of goods certainly have a certain share, and when a small shop is run, all kinds of goods have to be bought for sale, as the sale of bread alone is unlikely to survive. However, I must say that this question did not rise as acutely as you did in the Commission, although, of course, I am aware of this issue, because my mother still lives in Valga and I see what is happening there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U44	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U45	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Last week, Marje Josing, head of the Conjuncture Institute, said that during the rise in alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity excise, the cost of living has increased greatly. If I'm not mistaken, 6%. There has been no exponential increase in average and higher wages in South Estonia. There are most low wage earners, for whom tax increases are a particularly heavy burden. The Finance Committee of the Riigikogu has been at work for a week. Please explain what the Commission's conclusions from the analysis of the Institute of Economics are. The people of South Estonia are already in a region with a higher cost of living and have to cope. How are their lives to be eased?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U46	Thank you. I think your group member, Mr Ammas, can confirm that unfortunately or fortunately, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has not yet had time to examine the analysis of the Conjuncture Institute. But I expect that we will certainly do this again today when we are talking about a new economic forecast. I hope that the chairman of the committee will listen to this, too, and we will discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U47	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Several experts, as well as the World Health Organisation, have carried out risk assessments for different countries. Those countries with a high share of strong alcohol consumption are clearly also at a higher risk to public health. Didn't your honourable committee ever discuss this issue in order not to go along with the opposite trend and further increase the share of strong alcohol, which is actually very devastating for public health?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U49	Thank you. The way I was referring to it, there's a different understanding. My colleague Ligi described it in the same way, although he did, of course, confirm it in the same way as my view that alcohol is harmful in any way. However, we tax alcohol regardless of whether it is lean or strong in final consumption. The purpose of this draft was to reduce this gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U50	Aivar Sõerd, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Yesterday's published economic forecast, which you have already seen as a member of the coalition, shows that, despite the increase in excise duties on beer and spirits this year, excise duties on alcohol will decrease by 6.6% compared to the previous year, 2016. It's shrinking. The explanatory memorandum also clearly states that the estimated amount of alcohol excise duties not collected in 2017 due to border trade is approximately EUR 31 million. I'm asking you, where's the coalition line? How much do you have to miss out on the budget? It's 50 million or 100 million or 200 million, so you can start making decisions and getting involved in this situation? Where's the border?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U52	Thank you. The coalition will certainly respond adequately to these figures and receipts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U53	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Now's a chance for words. Andres Ammas is the first to use it. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U54	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Today, I think it is appropriate to address this issue. I will begin with the praise of the initiators and writers of the bill. It is quite understandable that alcohol policy and excise policy have also come up in recent history. I can say that I have become richer with one important knowledge: if other parties sometimes make wrong decisions too, the Reform Party will make risky decisions. But that's it. The previous head of government, Andrus Ansip, should be commended here, as well as the Reform Party, during which politicians, producers and health promoters actually agreed that a reasonable increase in alcohol duty would be 5% per year. This principle was abandoned in spring 2015. And although today it turned out that the initiator, and probably the most powerful and prominent minister of the government, was Sven Sester, it was indeed under the leadership of the Reform Party. However, I also fully agree with the honourable waitress that the last year, when the current government took office, was finally turned. There are no limits to the effort to implement the budget through alcohol duty. I also agree with the rapporteur that it is a fine policy and fine art to find this appropriate price for alcohol so that the price of a bottle of beer or wine is not too low given the rise in wages and the average wage. But there are really specialists for that, and politicians might want to listen to them more. If sometimes it seems to some of our fellow Members here that what we are talking about right now, that is already all the decided thing and the so-called snow last year, then it is not really the case. Now is the time to discuss it, because the berries will not come until next year, and these fruits will then ripen. The impact will come next year. For now, lean alcohol has been mass stocked up. While producers estimate that border trade currently accounts for around 20% of total alcohol trade, up to 50% is threatened. Even if this number isn't real, it could really go there. While purchases by Finns account for 25% of the alcohol currently sold, this share is likely to decrease. Not only because Finns have become healthier, but because these Finnish cars are simply in Latvia. It was quite awkward to read an article in which an employee of the Ministry of Finance felt that the volume of border trade would stabilise at a constant level and that major changes would not be foreseen next year. Oh, I'm sorry! I'd like to say that stupid talk back in my mouth. He won't stabilize, he'll accumulate. The result is, in fact, yet to come. Producers predict that low alcohol at the southern border will have a quadruple increase in border trade, for strong alcohol and for wine. What's the damage? Indeed, the statistical data are very different. For this year's year, the Ministry says $22 million is missing, manufacturers say $39. For the coming year, the Ministry will say 44, manufacturers 126. 126 million euros are two Estonian National Museums, as Noop, a beer manufacturer, aptly compared. That's a lot of money. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U55	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U56	When discussing what forecasts are correct, both the Ministry and the producers are probably exaggerating, but it is likely that the very small merchants in South Estonia to whom Mr Herkel has already referred can be believed. The leader of the Kõlva Consumer Cooperative used a painful but striking image: the impact of border trade is like a pig plague spreading north of South Estonia. And you could ask as a little crumbler, maybe a little puritan, if the idea of the store is just alcohol. No, these same consumer cooperatives and merchants say that they sincerely try and replace alcohol with other food products, to bring in more local farm goods. But we understand the liquor margin is higher in the store, which brings in more. Alcohol doesn't get old, it can stand in the store, okay? After all, the storekeeper is risky to take on a lot of fresh goods. It is natural that alcohol is a very important commodity for small shops. If today the total sales of these small shops have decreased by 10 or 15%, it is already painful for them. However, if it grows by half, it will be fatal. The shoppers say, by the way, that these strong Bock beer buyers are still here, but the so-called regular consumers have fallen off. They are now going to Ape instead of the Moose, buying their beer boxes or bags, picking up food from there, and on the way back they think that what I'm going to do with the Moose isn't necessary. And sometimes when people think that the difference is small, I was surprised when I read how big the price difference for a beer case will really come next year because of excise duties. I think that eight litres, which fits into this suitcase, will cost 116 euros when you buy from the Latvian border and 272 euros in Estonia. It's a colossal difference, it's not a joke anymore. As a result, the Free Party Group supports this draft into a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U57	Thanks to the waitress! Next, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U58	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur for the drafters made a thorough review, and there is not much to add. But I would like to say that it has been a long time since this bill was put into this procedure and, in that time, the situation with border trade has become much worse. This is also demonstrated by the new economic forecast published yesterday by the Ministry of Finance. It is clear here that this year, in 2017, alcohol excise duties of EUR 31 million will not be collected as a result of border trade. Of course, this is not just Latvia's border trade; here, too, the impact of the reduction in Finnish purchases is probably included. But in any case, because of a foolish excise policy, the state will give up excise revenue. Here, too, it is not appropriate to compare the repeated steps taken by the previous government in this debate today, because the increases in excise duty at that time were many times smaller than what the current coalition has carried out, having obviously turned over the excise policy. The coalition's representative did not want to answer the question of when is the right time to decide where the limit is. Producers predict that this will have a negative impact on excise duty disposal or border trade of more than EUR 100 million next year. Where's the border? The Prime Minister has been here before the Riigikogu and has said several times that a decision needs to be made. The Minister of Finance also said at the press conference yesterday that they are still monitoring, analysing and watching this situation. Well, actually, it's been a long time. This passed when Latvia announced its plans for increasing excise duty by means of its own budget strategy. The situation is that the impact of border trade is increasing. The pace of the rise in the Latvian excise duty is still much lower than ours, so this increased border trade is only an introduction. I would call on the coalition to support this draft, despite the contrary decision of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. We are now in a situation where we are simply giving up excise revenue in tens, if not soon in hundreds of millions. It's completely irrational. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-14_U59	There does not seem to be any more requests to speak. The commission has proposed to reject draft 439 at first reading and we will put this proposal to the vote very soon. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 439 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 49 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 32 against and no abstentions. Draft 439 has been rejected at first reading. Dear Riigikogu, our agenda today has been exhausted. Closure of the sitting at 11.05 a.m.
