ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear President of the Republic, Honourable guests! The session of the 16th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu is open on Thursday. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President of the Republic of Estonia! Today, on Child Welfare Day, the Riigikogu would not like to come to the floor with such a gloomy subject, but there is nothing to do. Perhaps we are talking today about the future of Estonian children. We certainly talk a lot about the Estonian population today. But one part of the future of Estonian children is whether or not we live in debt as a state and what the monetary future of the Estonian state will be, what the future will be. Looking at the development of recent times, one member of the Government of the Republic, who must be responsible for Estonian finances and cannot rely solely on the fact that it is necessary to comply with the order of the coalition, has begun to bring the drafts of the Riigikogu Hall with the support of the government, of course, which go against the laws in force. As a result, we will live as a state in debt, they will weaken the state of public finances, the sustainability of the Estonian state and the prospects for economic development. If you look at today's pages, then the President of Eesti Pank, the Economic Advisor to the President of the Republic, several economists, including Mr Nestor, will say, however, that SEB's analyst, Mihkel Nestor, has said that the budget balance is something that cannot be abandoned and that it is not worth taking out a loan. Longer explanations are in the explanatory memorandum, but I have a statement of mistrust from Finance Minister Sven Sester to hand over on behalf of 45 parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U3	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U4	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I hand over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is to propose to the Government of the Republic to suspend the process of ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. In the explanatory memorandum, we have pointed out that, given the fact that the Russian Federation has withdrawn its signature from the 2005 border agreement, as it did not accept the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty and the Soviet occupation, the ratification of the current border agreement calls into question the continuity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. In addition, it legalizes the continued occupation of the Russian Federation in the areas of the Republic of Estonia and these areas are abandoned without Estonia receiving the slightest compensation. The suspension of the ratification of the Treaty would provide an opportunity to negotiate with the Russian Federation on the basis of the continued validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. Of course, we look forward to handling this draft in connection with changes in the governance of political parties in the government coalition and the exchange of chairmen. The current political situation gives a signal that there is hope for a new political direction and common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U5	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U6	Thank you. I have the honour of handing over the draft decision of the Riigikogu, which has been submitted by a group of members of the Riigikogu from different political groups, Jaanus Karilaid, Igor Gräzin, Martin Helme and others, a number of delegates. The decision concerns the rehabilitation of the Union of Estonian War of Independence and its associated persons and organisations. From March 12, 1934, authoritarian state power was established in Estonia, followed by illegal repression against both individuals and organisations. The persons who were repressed were illegally deprived of liberty, property, military rank and honours because of their legal political activities and political convictions, the military and officials lost their jobs, the persons elected to local government councils. The purpose of this Decision is to alleviate the injustice caused to persons illegally repressed from 12 March 1934 to 17 June 1940, to rehabilitate the League of freedom fighters and associated organisations and persons. With this decision, the Riigikogu also commends all men and women who fought for Estonia's independence in the War of Independence, corrects the former injustices and restores the good name and honour of the repressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U7	On behalf of the governing board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one motion of distrust and two drafts. The Board of the Riigikogu decides on their future procedure in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. There's a message to send. Today, at the end of the plenary session, the founding meeting of the Estonian National Opera Friends Support Group will take place in this Chamber. The caller is Laine Randjärv. Ladies and gentlemen, please do a presence check. 86 parliamentarians will attend the meeting, 15 will be absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U8	Today's first item is the debate on the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017', a key national issue proposed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. First of all, the editor-in-chief of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017', Tiit Tammaru, Professor of the University of Tartu, for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 40 minutes. The author of the article 'Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017', Professor Ellu Saar of Tallinn University, will then give a 15-minute presentation. Questions and answers following the presentation for up to 25 minutes. The third is Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. His report is up to 10 minutes, followed by questions-answers for up to 10 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to any rapporteur. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened, during which members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups will be able to speak. At the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I propose to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups speak first. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Editor-in-Chief of the Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017, Professor of the University of Tartu Tiit Tammaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U9	Mr President of the Republic of Estonia! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! I am very pleased to present to you today the report on human development in Estonia. As always, this is a joint work of the great authorship, which we have led with Raul Eamets and Kristina Kallas. I will briefly suspend the presentation on the main messages. There's five of them. The first important message that emerges from our report is that Estonia's welfare growth has been rapid, but as the previous human development reports have shown, inequality in Estonian society is still great. We measure the welfare change over the last 25 years using the Human Development Index. If we schedule the European Union and the CIS countries for a moment, we will see another picture of change in 25 years. Prosperity growth in European countries has been such that differences between countries have decreased. Prosperity has grown faster in Eastern Europe and southern Europe, and growth has been somewhat slower in Western European countries, i.e. there has been a degree of convergence within Europe. On the other hand, we also see from this graph that the differences between Estonia and the countries of Eastern Europe and the CIS countries have increased. In the CIS, welfare growth has been significantly slower over the last 25 years. Thus, the convergence of growth within Europe has increased, the difference between the European Union and the CIS countries has increased. And Estonia, in turn, if we look at the drawing, will be placed in a very dignified position on the right-hand side. In Estonia, welfare growth has been one of the largest in the European Union over the last 25 years, clearly falling behind only Croatia and comparable to Ireland. Not only has relative change been rapid, but if we also look at the absolute value of the human development index, it is already completely comparable to Finland. Only the Czech Republic and Slovenia have a slightly higher index value than the new EU Member States. So in absolute terms, the human development index has risen to a pretty high level in Estonia. Let me remind you that the index measures the three components that are related to health, education and income. The biggest difference in income has, of course, remained with other countries, but this too has clearly decreased over time. But, as always, with rapid development, differences within society tend to grow. We can see that inequality grew rapidly in Estonia in the 1990s. More importantly, however, it may be that we have not started to decrease significantly, but have remained at this high level. If we look at this ranking, there is Estonia, at least in Europe, at the top. Only Latvia, Lithuania and Romania are ahead of us. These are two important points in Estonia's development over the last 25 years, which undoubtedly also relate to migration. Our second main message is that there is currently a migration revolution in Estonia. We do not yet want to say that Estonia has become an immigration country, but Estonia's migration trends are clearly changing. Migration trends are the result of the effects of two opposing force fields. On the one hand, the same welfare growth I started with means that more and more people will arrive in Estonia from outside the European Union. As we have seen, the welfare gap between us and CIS countries has increased and the overall attraction of migration is towards prosperity, regardless of the reason for migration, be it work, study or family. Migration tends to go from countries with lower welfare to countries with higher well-being. On the other hand, inequalities are still high, we have very many low-wage earners, and this is the key factor that continues to take people out of Estonia. We believe that these two forces are now operating in the opposite direction and that they leave us with migratory flows either on the plus side or on the minus side. As we know, after joining the European Union, emigration from Estonia grew. However, looking at Estonia's migratory trends, what has been slightly hidden from this great emigration is the fact that, in fact, the accession to the European Union laid the very same foundations for immigration into Estonia. These volumes were just smaller, but immigration to Estonia increased in the same way. The status of a member of the European Union, the increase in well-being, these are all factors that have brought more and more people to Estonia. In this sense, 2015 was a groundbreaking or significant year that the number of arrivals in Estonia exceeded the number of departures from Estonia for the first time, and the same situation continued in 2016, according to the latest data from Statistics Estonia. If we break up countries a little on the basis of geography, we will see that the accession to the European Union naturally laid the foundation for emigration to Europe's wealthier Member States. This is shown by the line on the light blue minus side on the graph. We can see that in the last three or four years, this blue line has clearly begun to rise upwards and has come close to quite zero. Perhaps with other countries of the European Union, Estonia's negative balance of migration has become smaller and smaller. One very important component of this, of course, is that emigration is always followed by return migration, i.e. there are very many, about half, of our own people who come back to Estonia. However, the second thing we see on this chart is that with countries outside the European Union, Estonia's balance of migration became positive immediately after its accession to the European Union. Indeed, more and more people are coming to Estonia from less wealthy countries, including Russia and Ukraine, especially after Estonia became a Member State of the European Union. It is also interesting to look at the professional distribution of arrivals and departures in Estonia. It tends to be that there are more low-paid arrivals, as we can see from the migration experience of European countries. This is not the case in Estonia. The high-paid people arrive in Estonia, and we can say that Estonia's current migration policy, which has been based on two bases, has worked well and has brought us leaders and top specialists. At the same time, those who have not been so well involved in Estonia's development will leave, i.e. people on low wages. These two force fields really continue to affect our migration, and so we have found in the report that we have now reached the phase of a migration revolution. The increase in prosperity brings us more and more people, especially from outside the European Union, mainly from Russia and Ukraine, but increasingly also from the most diverse countries in the world, from every continent. If there is no major shock or shock, it can be expected that immigration to Estonia will become more important, all the more so as our third message in the Human Development Report is that Estonia's development has become dependent on migration. Estonia's population is shrinking, Estonia's working-age population is shrinking and has created many of our problems. One key to solving the problems, which many employers have also proposed, is immigration. As part of the report, we decided to make one long-term population forecast up to 2100 to see what the long-term effects of migration are. We are often talking about migration in the current context of business, for example, there is a need today for some kind of worker, but migration also involves long-term integration issues. We looked at the different paths of the development of the Estonian population in the long term. If we focus on the three scenarios that I have chosen for the report, first this first, bottom line will show what will happen if the current situation continues, where there is more or less the balance of migration in the last ten years and the current birth rate. We can see that this path of development will inevitably lead to a continuing and quite rapid decline in Estonia's population. This average yellow line, which assumes that the balance of migration is more or less zero, is also very interesting, but the birth rate rises to the level necessary for the population to recover, i.e. 2,1 children per woman in the middle. However, we can see that this path of development does not guarantee the survival of the Estonian population either. The reason why it is not possible to ensure the sustainability of the population by birth alone is already in the age of the population living here, which, however, is not enough for the population to recover. The top line is the line we call the notionally population survival scenario. It can be realised if two essential conditions are met. First of all, the birth rate should rise to the level necessary to restore the population and, on the other hand, we also need quite extensive immigration, or about 200,000 people per year during this period. However, what is perhaps even more important from the perspective of labour market developments is that this scenario of population survival does not ensure that the number of people of working age is maintained at the current level, or that the number of people of working age is also decreasing in this scenario. The reason is that even if the birth rate were to rise to a level of recovery today, these children will not be able to reach the labour market until 25 years later, i.e. the labour market, especially the problems of the next 20 to 30 years, can be solved by the birth rate. Therefore, our conclusion is that Estonia, as well as the European countries as a whole, has reached the path of development, which we call migration dependency. The question is how to cope better in this migration age, where we are dependent on migration, so that society does not break up, divide. We know that the political forces in this Chamber also have different views in the field of migration. How, then, can we do so that our society does not divide and our problems do not grow over? When taking up this issue, when dealing with new immigration, we must, in turn, take into account that all this new migration does not lie in the vacuum, but in the situation that has developed in Estonia today. And the situation that has developed in Estonia is summed up as a vicious circle of segregation, which unfortunately is large between Estonian and Russian-speaking populations, the differences remain great. The knowledge of the Estonian language of the Russian-speaking population has improved, the number of Estonian citizens has increased, but at the same time a number of structural problems, the most important problems, are still large and the gaps have increased rather than narrowed. We take professional distribution and its changes on the basis of the native language. I will focus on one job market so as not to bring all the regional differences in Estonia together in a single schedule. Let's look at the professional breakdown by native language in Tallinn in 1989. The most important thing to read from the chart is that it is more or less the same - the professional distribution of Estonian and Russian native-language people was quite comparable. The average number of such service workers was usually low for Soviet society, with many blue-collar industrial workers, etc. The share of managers and top specialists was also higher than average. What, though, has happened during the transitional period? Estonians have moved quickly to higher positions in the professional hierarchy and there are very few ordinary workers among the Estonian native language. The professional progress of Russian-speaking people has been much slower and rather stuck in blue-collar occupations. I'm sure Ellu Island will tell you more about this. There is a small selective group that is very well integrated, has excellent skills in Estonian language and can do even better on the labour market than Estonians, but if we look at the picture as a whole, professional mobility is still very different on the basis of the mother tongue. It is clear that when jobs are different, people's incomes are also different. And when people's incomes are different, it naturally starts to affect where people can live, or where people can choose where to live. During the last 25 years, the segregation of residence has grown rapidly, which means that people with Estonian and Russian native language also live more and more in different areas within Tallinn. This graph basically shows us how many percent of people with either Estonian or Russian native language should change their residence so that there is no such difference: about 40% of people with either Estonian or Russian native language should change their residence in Tallinn in order to eliminate segregation. Moreover, as has been said, this inherited pattern of segregation also affects what is happening now, and modern migration is taking place in the background system that we have reached today. I will simply show you two maps of where immigrants from the European Union and the CIS live in Tallinn. Immigrants from the European Union move to the city centre of Tallinn, such as Kalamaja, where there are many Estonian-language residents. Immigrants from the CIS move to areas of Tallinn's panel buildings. There is a familiar language environment, often people who live in Estonia are known. There are Russian schools where you can get your kids to study. Perhaps this existing collection of "parallel societies," which we have inherited in Estonia from the Soviet era, will restore today's contemporary immigration-related segregation. How does the vicious circle of segregation work if you sum it up briefly? If there are differences in the labour market, there are also differences in income. When incomes vary, people move to different regions. We have residential and district-based children going to their nearest school. Consequently, education and schools are also segregated and, in turn, segregation is entering the labour market. And that is how this vicious circle of segregation works, it works in the same way in other European countries. However, what is driving it forward is that we also manage it nationally. We have a school system with Estonian and Russian native language, and this only gives momentum to the vicious circle of segregation. In short, what we are doing now, when we look at the overall picture, is that from the age of three, about when children go to kindergarten, we sort them out into two different systems by language and then we wonder that there is no integration. It's like if we put the kids in two glasses. We can put one glass of sugar in the water, teach the language, try to increase linguistic competence with a immersion, but children ♪ it's the core of the problem that doesn't come into contact with them, they're still in two different systems. There will be no common friends, no joint actions, no common values. This is the core of the problem, not language learning. So we see that segregation has grown, it is large both in the labour market and in residences and at school. Where can the country start? The only logical place is education, we don't see any other logical place where we can start a change. If our goal is to reduce differences.. and once again, we must also think about all this in the new context of immigration, we will also have new people, we will not be able to hold on to Soviet time, then we will still have to get to the Estonian education system that functions uniformly from a language-differentiated school system. Of course, it is based on the Estonian language on the one hand, but on the other, it takes into account all the linguistic and cultural diversity that is in Estonia and which will certainly grow in the future. Consequently, the solution is not if we simply shut down the Russian-language school and raise the Russian children to the Estonian school. The entire Estonian school system and education must change. This will actually benefit our own Estonian children, who will have to do better in an open world. For example, Estonian employers are already increasingly international. Knowledge of other languages and cultures must be an even stronger part of the general competence that children can take with them. As has been said, this Human Development Report focuses on two issues. On the one hand, migration dependency has arisen, we need immigration, and on the other, we have very serious integration problems. How to strike a balance between these two major issues and where we have come to the drafting of the Human Development Report is that we should take these two issues into account in a comprehensive way from the policy of adoption of the arrivals. We offer that it is time to adopt an active immigration policy. Estonia's current migration policy has been based, as has been said, on two bases: an annual migration quota and a wage criterion. They have worked well, but as migration dependency has arisen, it is primarily according to the wishes of employers, and this is very natural, because if the employer is doing badly, Estonia as a whole is going badly, and these measures and criteria have become less and less and less. We have taken more and more groups out of the migration quota and the 1.24-fold average wage requirement has been abolished. Our migration policy has become increasingly relaxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U10	Honourable waitress! We are discussing a matter of national importance, but the time allocated to you is, unfortunately, over. I'm sure the hall won't mind if we give you extra minutes. Would three be enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U11	I need another 15 seconds. We offer instead a migration point system that takes into account both the needs of employers for workers and the integration capacity of arrivals. We can talk about this in more detail already in the circle of questions and answers, but the point system should take into account both of these. This would be a relatively novel approach, because there is no country that would have combined them the way we propose. Rather, national policies are focused on employers or integration, but the scoring system we offer brings them both together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U12	Thank you, dear waitress. You have questions. The round of questions and answers is up to 40 minutes. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U13	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One of the conclusions of the report is that inequality is still high in Estonia. At the same time, welfare growth, measured by the human development index, is one of the largest in Europe over the last 25 years. The question to you, Professor Tammaru, is this: how does the Estonian education system, including the proportion of tertiary education, support people to cope with changes in the labour market and reduce inequality as a result? When I talk about changes in the labour market, I am talking about the competition created by the arrival of intelligent machines in people's jobs. My gut tells me that inequality increases even more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U14	Indeed, that is a very good question. First of all, in tertiary education, we also see that language-based problems are still present. Students-graduates in Russian-language schools reach less tertiary education. That's one side of the problem. And when we talk about employers and the need for workers, they are very much related to those professions that we already know will not be needed in the near future. Perhaps if we are to shape our migration policy, we must also take into account how likely it is that the agencies that are now needed are also needed in five or ten years' time. We can see that some countries, including Finland, are already experimenting with the idea of civil wages. That's the subject that's getting closer and closer. However, with regard to the inequality from which you started your question, the only solution we can still see is that we are trying to reduce all kinds of differences as much as possible and to prepare children at school for the challenges that the labour market will face in the future. They are then linked to the knowledge of different cultures and languages. The world is open. Our children, their activities, the YouTube generation, are no longer Estonian-centred. That's one side. And the second is indeed technological literacy, which must reach education programs everywhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U15	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Oak Bear! Thank you for this report. It's a pretty interesting reading and also a well-structured text, but some of the messages have a tendency to simplify. And when we talk about 200,000 immigrants to balance the population, it has social resonance and certainly resonance in this Chamber as well. I noticed you didn't talk about the Estonians' return migration. That's the first part of the question. By browsing the report further, I found on page 62 that Poetry Zacchaeus is still talking about 170000 immigrants to balance the working-age population. But there is also a great deal of it, that is the volume of Soviet immigration. What are the scenarios according to which we could manage less immigration and achieve a better environment for the Estonian language?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U17	Thank you very much. I'm gonna start at the end, and then I'm gonna come back to that return trip. However, this scenario first assumes that the birth rate will reach the necessary level of population recovery. This first assumption is, in fact, difficult to fulfil. To give you a figurative example of this in the Human Development Report, we need to have 2.1 children per woman in the middle, 210 children per hundred women. The current birth rate picture in Estonia is that about 10% of women are childless, about 30% of women have one child and many single mothers. So of this 210 children, 40% of women only give birth to 30, 60% of women have to give birth to the remaining 180 children, or three children in the middle. The Estonian state has done a great deal to further develop birth rates policies. We know that last year laws were passed that significantly improve the situation of families with three children, but this objective is still very difficult to achieve. This optimistic figure of about 170000 • 200,000 immigrants, in turn, is already based on the optimistic assumption that the birth rate is back to normal. I'd rather be skeptical about that. The number of Estonians living abroad, outside Estonia's borders is, of course, very estimated. In the Human Development Report, we have estimated this figure to be around 200000 people. This is the result of both the new exodus and the earlier migration waves, the children of Estonians who are born abroad, the great escape, etc. Studies show that the proportion or percentage of return migrants is about a quarter, with a maximum of 50%. If we also rely on this maximum optimistic assumption that 50% of Estonians living abroad will return, it will be 100,000 people. In any case, then, at least 100,000 people from somewhere else will have to come along, assuming that the birth rate will rise to a level of recovery that is very difficult to achieve. In this sense, we will not escape without immigration. Indeed, it tends to divide society, and so we are suggesting that the only solution acceptable to society is to look as decisively as possible at the admission of immigrants as their potential integration capacity. We must not only decide at the heart of labour market needs. I would even say that, at times, Western Europe has been in practice since World War II, when Germany launched the foreign workers' programme, there has been such a Cinderella-type migration policy, i.e. that some work is something that it does not recommend to do itself, and then we take the migrant worker who does it for us. This is already an extremely unfavourable starting point for integration. We should also include the thinking of integration in employers' policies, nevertheless making it clear that this too needs to be considered very actively. I am sure that, if the issue of integration is immediately brought to the fore in the case of immigration, then the fears of migration will also begin to diminish. Who are these immigrants? As we have seen before, there is nothing to fear now in Estonia and there is no problem. Rather, there are top specialists, highly educated specialists. The question is that we do not change this situation. The lightening of the current migration policy is the way in this direction, but we should now try to act in such a way that this soft policy does not get paid. And here's where we're going to have this point system idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U18	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U19	Good President! Good Professor Oamaru! The Human Development Report acknowledges that one of the important challenges facing us is to increase the value of existing human resources. According to Statistics Estonia, nearly a third of our workforce has either primary or general secondary education, i.e. they do not have a professional education. This concerns not only the older generation, but also our young people. When you prepared the report, did you also reflect on how to change that proportion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U20	Thank you very much. If you will allow me, I will answer this question a little bit shorter, because the next presentation is by Professor Ellu Saaret, who may be able to deal in depth with education and labour market issues. But here we come to the same Estonian school system, Estonian and Russian school system. The point of the problem is still heading for the Russian native people. On the one hand, we do not have a lot of unused resources on the labour market, with a high level of employment, unemployment being low. What's the problem? The professional distribution of Russian-speaking people has been very inclined towards these simple jobs. There is certainly one very important internal resource to be mobilised, and through school education, efforts could be made to resolve this situation. Indeed, it concerns not only older people but also younger ones.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U21	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, You mentioned in your report that, in the case of immigration, this type of linguistic segregation takes place when choosing where to live. Some go downtown, and people from the CIS countries go to the bedfronts. Could you also analyse the proportions of linguistic and purely income-related effects? There are probably few people who can afford an apartment in downtown and Kalamaja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U23	Indeed, segregation is a combination of two of these important factors: one is income and the other is certain values and wishes to live in. It's a combination of these two factors. We have seen that, among immigrants, we rather have representatives of higher-ranking agencies. We are actually going to have top specialists, doctors and so on from Ukraine and Russia. In this sense, their incomes are not a direct problem, i.e. it is still important to have a certain network base, a familiar environment, which, as a second component, also affects where children are to live, where children are to be placed in school, etc. It's a combination of two factors.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U24	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U25	Thank you. Mr Tammaru, thank you very much for your presentation and a very meaningful report. I also come to this national segregation. As you can understand, in the school system, we regenerate two large ethnic groups with their own particularities. You and other scientists propose to start learning Estonian as early as possible with the education system in Estonian sounds very logical and reasonable. Did this report also examine the attitudes of the Russian-speaking group itself or the attitude of the transition to the Estonian language? Is it unacceptable for them, is it a very sensitive issue, or is it a sensitive issue for certain politicians rather?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U26	Thank you, very good question! Indeed, it cannot be said, just as with any subject I have dealt with, that everyone thinks the same way. The Russian-speaking community is, of course, heterogeneous internally. However, as Mart Rannut's article in the Human Development Report shows, it has been very clear to the Russian native parents that their children will remain those of the second variety if this educational segregation continues, i.e. they are ready. I'm sure there's also a group of these people, as well as a pretty big one, who'd rather feel scared. More than 50% of the parents, however, said they were ready for this study. So it seems to me that it is slowly rooted in society that, when we sort children into different societies, into different schools, that is where these differences end up. Perhaps the emphasis should still be on the fact that if we make such a change, which would make sense, but this is, of course, the choice of Parliament and politicians, then it must still be at the heart of how we do it, so that we deal with all the fears that exist. Fears are on both sides, and Estonian parents also have the fear that what happens when Estonian and Russian children get together. We remember national conflicts well from the Soviet era. But we need to understand that there is, in fact, a conflict as part of a normal integration process. It is not possible that integration takes place, that people from different backgrounds communicate without problems. Conflicts are part of the integration process and we have to deal with them in a reasonable way. On the one hand, Estonian parents have fears. The fears of Russian parents relate to the identity of these children, their language skills, whether they are completely losing their Russian roots and Russian skills. It is also a concern that if children learn Estonian and parents do not speak Estonian, what will be their success. In short, there are a number of all kinds of fears that need to be dealt with systematically and which cannot only be dealt with at school, but also include communities, state, government, etc. Did I answer the question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U27	Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U28	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Oamaru! We talk every day about staying on our own land, Estonian and Estonian. Is this not the greatest risk of promoting 'immigration' and migratory dependence on Ukraine, Turkey, CIS countries and other countries of the world, paying immigrants lower wages and, in some respects, lowering wage levels? I don't think all the high-paid people are coming here. After all, they're taking the payroll out of Estonia. At the same time, our own men must go down the path to find decent wages. What is the nature of the problem in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U29	Thank you. That's a good question! The nature of this problem is still linked to the fact that there is still too much inequality in Estonia, we do have too many people on low wages. In many areas, such as the service sector, wages are, let's say, microscopic, this salary number can be viewed immediately. This problem really leads the low-paid people out of Estonia, which means that the problem in the low-paid sector will be amplified. On the one hand, the population is decreasing, but on the other hand, the number of low-paid people on the labour market is also falling as a result of emigration. It's the nature of the problem. The parts of the solution package relate more to the economy. I must say in the background that the subject of the Human Development Report is formulated by the Cooperation Council, and this time the focus was more on cultural and language issues, not on the labour market, as you can see from the chapters. We have not carried out a direct economic analysis. However, the solutions are in many ways in the economy, they are in productivity growth, in the company's movement to higher levels of value chain. What we may emphasise in the report, however, is that this change should also be systematically managed by the state. We often fear that the word'state', that we may already have too many countries, but also in the economy, the state should take a more courageous lead and help companies implement innovation, internationalisation and movement to higher value chain positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U30	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U31	Thank you. Thank you very much, Professor, for your excellent presentation and your entire team for writing this good, objective and adequate report. It is very welcome that the situation has been adequately and objectively described. My question goes into the area of migration, also looking into the future, looking at the number of our working age and the number of people on the labour market, which you mentioned, and bearing in mind this excellent slide, which showed that it was the higher-paid people who have come to Estonia. Do you think, in your subjective assessment, by looking at the report as well, maybe you could start thinking that the immigration limit, which is 0.1% of the population, could be abolished at all and talk about criteria-based immigration restrictions? As early as this year, we can see that the immigration limit will be met in half a year. What do you think about your personal position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U32	Yes, we have also discussed this issue with our fellow editors. After all, Raul Eamets is a professor of macroeconomics who knows very well about labour market issues. Indeed, I think, and it also makes sense that the migration quota that we once approved has gradually lost its importance, and maybe at some point I cannot say exactly when it will have to be abandoned at all. But this withdrawal should really come out the way that we have something to offer instead. What has happened now is that some measures will disappear, but nothing has come up in place. That's the nature of the problem. If we can replace something that is acceptable to society and it seems to us that something other than this point system, which also takes account of integration, we cannot come up with now, these fears should disappear and this quota really does not bear its original point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U33	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U34	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The report makes a good distinction between the different directions of recruitment policies • workplace-based, skill-based and sector-specific Smarter-behaviour countries are moving from job-based recruitment to skilled recruitment, sector-specific recruitment. Where do you think Estonia is now in this process? What measures and opportunities could Estonia use?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U35	Thank you. Estonia is indeed moving towards a sectoral approach. In Estonia, the words behind a programme such as OSKA are currently taking place, and I do not remember exactly the sector-specific labour needs analysis. This is a very comprehensive national programme that seeks to identify a sector-by-sector labour needs. This is a very logical direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U36	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U37	Thank you! Thank you very much, dear waitress, for a very intriguing and interesting presentation. My question concerns a little bit of the same area that my colleague, Mr Aas, asked about, namely language and school. The subject of language and school is certainly in the course of one policy instrument and will be particularly active before the elections. One group has also proposed that the Estonian language be taught in Russian kindergarten and Russian school, i.e. the so-called Russian school would actually be preserved in Estonia. That's how I figured it out. But I understand that, according to your proposal, there would still be a unified Estonian school, where Russian children will be taught in Estonian and, if necessary, in Russian if they cannot be taught in Estonian. It's like there's a fundamental difference. Let me get this straight. Please mark it over!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U38	Yes, indeed, you have quite rightly understood that we have two such major proposals. One relates to the foundations of migration policy and the other relates to the foundations of integration policy. Estonia's integration policy has clearly been central to the Estonian language. There is no doubt that much has already been achieved, but the main problem of a language-centred approach is that people have not yet begun to communicate. The fundamental change that we have discussed here in the Human Development Report is that a language-based approach should be replaced by a communication-based approach. When people communicate, when children get together, the language comes quickly by itself. We can teach the language to two groups of people in separate glasses, but they do not communicate, the language skills remain passive, and so these problems remain. This whole glass ceiling theme, sometimes spoken of as having a Russian population somewhere in front of a glass ceiling, also relates to the lack of communication between ethnic groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U39	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Professor, for this presentation and even more thanks for an excellent, intriguing and interesting report. To sum up what has been said and to interpret it a little arbitrarily, you mentioned that Estonia needs a smart family policy, a smart migration policy, a smart cultural policy that all would really take into account today's new reality, including multi-dimensionalism and the resulting multiple identity needs. Unfortunately, however, I did not see how you involve NGOs and civil society at all in this whole process. It is said that there is a need for cooperation and synergy between ministries, authorities, but where are the NGOs, civil society, yet what have we grown in recent years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U41	Thank you. This is a very correct observation, it really does not exist in the report, even if you read it literally, it does not come out much. Indirectly, however, it is in there. As I was saying, if we're going to change the education system, there's no way we can leave schools alone. In fact, it assumes that communities, NGOs and others are also indispensable parties to this change. This is perhaps the most specific place where this issue comes in. We did not really talk about a few issues, such as refugees. Certainly, here in Estonia too, civil society and NGOs have a major role to play in order to better organise their adoption, etc. So, yes, we have not analysed it separately, but this subject still relates all the time to the issue of migration and also to the issue of the change in education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U42	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U43	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! For my part too, thank you and your team for the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017'! I agree with the need to introduce the active immigration policy you mentioned. My question, however, is about return migration. In 25 years, a very large and considerable number of Estonians as well as Estonians of working age have left us. Is the return of working-age Estonians, the return home conceivable? How much could this happen, and what should we do as a country and as a society as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U44	Thank you very much. Fortunately, the volumes of return migration have been surprisingly large in Estonia. We have seen that Estonia's balance of migration has been positive for the last two years, and the bulk of it is still that our own people are coming back. As has been said, international experience shows that likely return migrants are about a quarter, with a maximum of 50%. When we compare the volumes of immigration and emigration That's the percentage you should try to increase. Let's see what the causes of emigration and return migration are. As I said, they'd rather go out for good. By the way, this is also a component of learning mobility: better pay, better work. Rather, such emotional factors, linked to the ties of home countries, are being brought back. These are the reasons that are mentioned above. The better Estonia is doing, the better it is to come back. The difference between the standard of living between us and the countries of emigration has certainly also favoured return. In a small country, it is often easier to move forward in the profession. We go abroad, we win on income, but we fall on the ladder. It leaves its mark. After all, the last article of the report by Aet Annist shows very well the emotional experiences that Estonians living in England have had, the mentality that they are considered Eastern Europeans. By the way, also in Finland, where we are talking about Estonians as a very successful group, research in recent years has shown that there is no distinction between Estonians and ordinary Eastern European immigrants. It leaves a bit of such a mental sense of inferiority, you are not fully adapted plus emotional bond with Estonia. If Estonia's development is going well and we can maintain this link with our homeland, then this is the main factor that brings people back. Unfortunately, we don't have any miracle weapon. This is also a good additional sign of whether people change nationality when they leave or not. In general, people who have left Estonia have not given up Estonian citizenship, not even in Finland. They have preserved Estonian citizenship, which means that they still keep a certain ticket in their pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U45	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U46	Thank you, Mr Professor, for a very interesting presentation and an interesting report. I would like to clarify a little bit about the migration economic dimension of Estonia. It turned out that the main migrations to Estonia are by the leaders and that the migrants are mainly by the workers. Is this partly due, for example, to the fact that an employee is somehow poorly protected in our labour market or to the fact that he is unable to perform himself well enough in Estonia if he sees that he is unable to pursue a career? How much does emigration have to do with the policies of the countries of destination to which they are going? What will happen if our countries of destination change their labour market policy, for example by reducing the positions that an Estonian worker wants to go to, a more conservative immigration policy that can be seen in the same way? How would this change the situation on our labour market?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U47	They're leaving Estonia, yes, low-wagers. In my report, due to a lack of time, I failed to note that they would rather leave the outskirts. The typical profile of an emigrant from Estonia is that he is low-paid and lives outside Tallinn, in some remote areas. Until they joined the European Union, these people came from the periphery to Tallinn. But when Estonia joined the European Union and the barrier disappeared from labour migration, people started moving to Finland instead of Tallinn. So low wages are certainly the engine of emigration, especially in peripheral regions. Migration policies in the host countries do not affect this in any way; within the European Union, we have free movement of labour. True, countries can make life uncomfortable through certain nuances, such as the perfect demand for language skills, etc. We know that Germany is not going to be so much, that there are some very difficult conditions. However, the host countries do not have such a direct mechanism in the form of policies to prevent the reception of Estonian workers. The solution to the problem is in Estonia, not in the countries of destination.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U48	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U49	Thank you. Good waitress! The link between inequality and segregation is very correct and, in particular, I would like to emphasise that it is not a matter of language learning but of networking and education. But inequality is also just the derivative of rapid change, and it has to be dealt with separately. However, those who focus exclusively on levelling inequalities always focus on unequal treatment. Does your work also apply a little to the fact that inequality must be treated unequally and universal support does not reduce inequality?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U50	Yes, indeed, we are not going to take very specific measures here in this sense. I think it is still the competence of officials, politicians, to develop these precise measures and mechanisms. It certainly cannot create any new kind of inequality if we intervene in some way not quite logically. However, the main argument we are getting to is that the state can initiate these changes through the education system. If there is equal treatment in the education system, we can begin to gradually alleviate other problems. This would be the most logical starting point once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U51	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U52	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I will also join in all the thanks that have already been expressed to your team. I also come to the same issues that were addressed here in the last questions. You replied that there are microscopic salaries in the service sector and that people are leaving because of their wages. It is clear, however, that the main issue in this sector is perhaps the consumer population's turnover, but you cannot pay a restaurant attendant a salary of 1000 euros if ten people visit a restaurant a day. But that's it. We have a lot of simple jobs that do not require higher education or a very serious specialization. Who's supposed to do this, where are we gonna find these people? These jobs have to be done, after all, not everyone can be leaders.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U53	Thank you. That is the question that I said earlier that we have not really analysed it, or that the economic analysis has been excluded from this report. Therefore, I cannot comment very thoroughly on this issue. But the problem is also a little bit that if we have somewhere else to take people, it's easy to keep the salary level down. If we see that there is simply no substitute, then we start to think about what can be done differently so that wages are higher. The immigration of low-paid people is a little slowing down the change and innovation of businesses themselves. And that is, in fact, not true for our generation, but a unique moment in the historical long term. The possibility of employing people elsewhere is due to the fact that developing countries are currently in the second stage of population development, from which there are simply people to take. Let's say 50 years from now, there won't be a chance. Then we must take into account in the general context that the population is ageing and that we no longer have any new people to take away. In the end, it becomes a global problem, however, how we can replace simple work with so-called smarter works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U54	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U55	Thank you. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you for your excellent presentation. I will also focus on the growth and inequality of prosperity in my question. Jürgen Ligi pointed out very well that inequality must be treated unequally. I would point out that one very large target group here is people with special needs, who we have a great deal in society. In order to include them both in the labour market and in the education system, a reform of working capacity has now been launched. Which measures could take better account of this inequality, especially for people with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U56	Thank you. This is certainly also a very important issue, but unfortunately I have to say that this has not been directly analysed in any way in the report. The basic thing, as with any other group, is that no one should be forgotten. It is as if in a coherent society as any one we would like, I think, still to reach, that there are those in society who are more involved in success, who are moving forward faster, and there are weaker ones who are either unable or unwilling to move forward so quickly. We have to deal with all of this, but right now, unfortunately, I really do owe an answer to what exactly should be done to people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U57	Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, As Chairman of the e-Estonia Support Group of the Riigikogu, I cannot fail to ask such a perhaps slightly provocative question. What if we paid all the attention to getting more e-residents instead? This would significantly reduce the pressure and problems associated with physical immigration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U59	Thank you. That's, yeah, a very good question. After all, e-residents show this general trend that I did not have much time to talk about in the report. The second new normality of today's world is that people's space of activity is no longer confined to national borders. We also have to deal with this situation as a nation state. This concerns both the scope for people and the scope for businesses. The report contains an interesting article from Urmas Varblase and Rainer Kattel that Estonian companies are increasingly international and many are international at birth. This means that our country no longer operates within the physical territory of Estonia. How to cope with this so-called challenge is certainly one of the country's very big points of reflection. I think the idea of e-residency and such an image of e-state is what Estonia's innovation has been. It would certainly be worth developing further and thinking about how it could be implemented even more closely in front of the Estonian development cart. Unfortunately, we do not have any concrete proposals here at the moment. This direction is undoubtedly very right, however, it is very good that Estonia is completely innovative in certain areas around the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U60	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U61	Good manager! Good waitress! I read that by the end of the century, in order to keep the number of Estonians the same, we should bring in 400000 foreigners. At the same time, there are 70,000 Estonian women who do not have and do not have children and 230,000 women who have only one child. Is there any wonder medicine for these 230000 Estonian women to have more than one child on average?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U62	The topic of birth is certainly one where the Estonian state has already done a great deal. Since Estonia actually has one of the best-functioning kindergarten systems in the world, which we have inherited since the Soviet era, but we have preserved it and developed it further. This means that we can get work and family life together quite well, which is also very important for single mothers, for example. We have parental benefit and three children's allowance. So much has been done in birth rate politics. I don't really know how to bring out any important resources that are untapped. The only new idea that concerns birth rates and families is perhaps that families and homes are inextricably linked. Maybe it's the topic of home that needs to be discussed. There is, of course, also a social debate between political parties, as we well know, quite tense. But the fact is that family and home are logically linked to one whole. Estonia is a country where housing policy is basically rather modest and the entire housing market is also'market-based', i.e. the country does not play a major role in this. We know that the birth rate is the lowest in large cities, and the population in turn is concentrated in large cities. From Earth, from the periphery, more and more people are coming to town. And it's the same with emigration that they'd rather leave the periphery. Those who arrive in Estonia will rather come to the cities. In fact, the birth rate problem is targeted at cities, it is targeted at large cities, it is targeted at Tallinn. We do not have any suggestions here, but we are simply stating the fact that families, birth rates and homes are a connected logical whole. Perhaps there is something that can be done here by means of some kind of policy that will also contribute to the birth rate. In general, this rule of law is clear, I am not saying that there is a causal link here, i.e. that if we give the family a larger apartment, it will immediately be filled with children, that the bigger the housing is, the more children there are. And in cities, housing tends to be the smallest. I don't know if there are any specific solutions here, but this is a place to think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U63	The first presentation of the last question is submitted by Yoko Alender. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U64	Thank you. I think that this contribution from scientists will provide the basis for Estonia to be better tomorrow. But I will continue a little bit on the same subject, in the example of Tallinn, because here this so-called ghetto theme is well drawn. In the more prosperous regions, mostly in Estonian-language areas such as Kalamaja, the Russian-language school is closed, while the Estonian-language school is closed at Lasnamäe. All adult education in Russian is concentrated in Lasnamägi and the most social buildings are built in Lasnamägi. Are these developments conducive to integration or vice versa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U65	They are undoubtedly not conducive to integration. As I was saying, schools and housing are closely linked. The fact that Russian schools are in certain areas of the city will undoubtedly contribute to the fact that the Russian-speaking population will also be concentrated there. It's like a housing component, that's for sure. Indeed, it is surprising that social housing is also concentrated in very specific areas. And these social problems that arise there are classic, these are textbook examples of problems that have arisen in the last five years in connection with the construction of social housing. The argument has usually been that it is easier to build one place at a time than many places. It's easier now, but it's a long-term problem. Is it easier after a long time, and what are these benefits and costs in the long term? Rather, I fear that the costs will eventually be higher than the original revenues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U66	Dear rapporteur, thank you for your work on the report and the presentation of this report at the Riigikogu session. There would be more questions for you, as the board shows, but according to our agreement, the time for replying to them has ended. Thanks again! I got a valuable tip in the meantime. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic has been asked to discuss the publication of censure in today's session. Therefore, I will take the President's break for five minutes to discuss the addition of the agenda to the Bureau. Break 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U67	Dear Riigikogu, let's continue the trial. The break for the Bureau meeting is closed. The Government of the Republic would like the written request of 45 members of the Riigikogu to express censure to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, to be discussed in today's session. On the basis of Article 56 (1) (2) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu Act, I will add this request to the agenda of today's sitting. This debate will take place as a second item on the agenda, i.e. after the conclusion of the debate on the key national question 'Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017'. I also consider it necessary to tell the MPs that § 64 (3) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu tells us this: 'In the case provided for in § 134 of this Act, the sitting will not be closed until the decision on the agenda is taken. ' Paragraph 134 deals with the debate on the disclosure of censure. So our hearing will be closed when the second item has been taken. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U68	Thank you. Mr President, the President of the Riigikogu! I agree with you about the provisions of § 134, as well as the provisions of § 64 of the Home and Working Procedures Act. I am a little sceptical about your interpretation that we will continue with the second item on the agenda in circumstances where the first item has not ended at 2:00. If there is someone on the first item at 1:59 p.m. and his speech ends on 14.02, the session of the Riigikogu must also end, assuming that we have extended the session of the Riigikogu, which we have not yet decided. Right now, we know the hearing ends at 1:00. Am I correct to understand from the Chairman of the Riigikogu that you wish to go against the law on domestic and working procedures, to deal with all item No 1 and then also to start the debate on item No 2? Agenda item 1, assuming that, for example, 40 members of the Riigikogu give an eight-minute speech, may take five hours. I'm just asking for accuracy so we can understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U69	Then let's start over. In particular, the publication of censure to the Government of the Republic, to the Prime Minister or to one of the ministers shall be taken to the debate at the earliest on the day after its initiation unless the Government of the Republic requires a faster decision. The Government of the Republic has called for faster decision-making and the President of the Riigikogu supplements the agenda. Paragraph 64 (3) does not allow the Chairman to close the meeting before a decision has been taken on a matter of mistrust. If you look at the same book you have in front of you, there is also an example that it is an exception, but so it is. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this case, I have the question whether § 64 (3) goes against § 47 of the Rules of Procedure, which sets out the timetable for the work of the Riigikogu and states very clearly that our session will end at 2 p.m. at the latest when the working time has been extended, and then committees will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U71	Yeah, that's the problem. We hope that this House will work briskly and then we will not have a practical problem. However, as President, I do not have the opportunity to close the sitting until the decision has been taken. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U72	Thank you. I do not know whether this is a technical problem, and I also do not know whether the order of speeches will be deleted and reopened when our next item item on the agenda is placed on the table, but, with my procedural question, my name has disappeared from that screen. I'm not happy with it. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U73	Are we going to continue the debate on an important national issue, or do you still want to have a debate with me? There is still a desire to hold a debate. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U74	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. If we read § 64 (3), it really gives an exception, I agree with you. It states that in the case provided for in § 134 of this Act, which is a mistrust procedure, the sitting will not be closed until a decision on the agenda is taken. The question now is that we will not get to the second item until we have concluded the first item on the agenda. However, the distinction between the end of the first item, which is OTRK, is not included in the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. This means that when the time comes when the time will be 14 in case we extend the session of the Riigikogu, the OTRK procedure will remain open and those who have not yet spoken will no longer be able to speak and the Riigikogu session will have to end. We would like to understand precisely that we do not go against the law of the Riigikogu's house and rules of procedure here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U75	According to our current status, we're discussing OTRK until 1:00. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U76	Thank you. Let's try this one more easy. We would like to know how to plan our discussions, and really now. There are two big issues. The question to which we would like an answer is as follows: is the sitting extended if the motion of censure does not come to the proceedings either before one or two o'clock? Or is the sitting extended only if the debate is ongoing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U77	If you read Paragraph 64 (3), it would be more legal to say that the sitting will not be closed until the decision has been taken. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U78	Thank you, Mr President. The Finance Committee, based on the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, which says that the work of Riigikogu committees starts on Thursdays at 2:00 a.m., has today invited representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Confederation of Employers and the taxpayers' association to discuss planned tax changes. I assume that the chairman of the committee was based on the fact that the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure are in force and that the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs begins at 2 p.m. How should the Committee on Monetary Affairs act now if, according to your interpretation, the sitting is to be continued until the items on the agenda are exhausted? My proposal would be to assume that the law is in force and that it is two o'clock for committee meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U79	We are, of course, very respectful of all houses, including the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, but that is why the Riigikogu does not disperse that they come here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to resolve this issue in such a way that the opposition has opportunities and that we are polite to the Minister, we are polite to the President and also to our guests. If there's anything you can do to help with that, we'd be better off. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U80	Thank you. It is undoubtedly polite to follow the law when we are planning a sitting of the Riigikogu here. The way in which the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act has become exceptionally creative, both in the context of the negotiation of the cluster law and in the current debate, is, frankly, beautifully strange. Paragraph 64, to which you repeatedly refer, governs the termination of an ongoing operation. If the debate on a specific item of the agenda has not been reached before the working time of the committees provided for by law begins, this cannot be an ongoing act. How can there be something in progress that has not yet been discussed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U81	Why can't I? If there is one item on the agenda, it must be discussed on the agenda. The President of the Riigikogu has the right to add to the agenda and has done so on a proposal from the Government of the Republic. And I can't finish the trial until the decision has been made. I understand your interest in keeping this subject in the media longer. Of course, it's understandable. On the other hand, I think that publishing a mistrust to the Minister of the Government of the Republic is also quite an important question where the Riigikogu comes to make a decision quickly if the Government so wishes. I don't think you can make that decision in any way today. Jürgen Ligi, please! [[Sighs.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U82	Thank you, Mr President. You didn't get my question right. My question is how we should plan our speeches and questions. Do we have to make an effort to discuss one or two points before one or two o'clock today, or do you in any case extend the sitting? Will you extend the sitting even if the second item has not yet begun? Just say it somehow, because then we'll know what we're doing. We need to know the number of speeches and questions. Actually, I'd like to discuss both matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U83	I'll say it again. Paragraph 64 says that when the Riigikogu session ends at one o'clock and someone is speaking or speaking at the time, I will not finish his speech, he will speak to the end of his story. This paragraph 64 refers to the closure of the sitting. And if there is a mistrust on the agenda, the President of the sitting shall not be entitled to close the sitting until the decision has been taken. [[Someone's gonna say something about the hall.]] If it's on the agenda, it'll start. I have a request, honourable members of the Riigikogu, to continue the debate on a very important national issue. Hanno Pevkur, please, but this is the last question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Of course we want to move on. The question is, what position do you take? So what's going on here is that if someone's on the remote, they can't stop him. From there on, the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act states that this also applies to OTRK, so that the rest of the speeches are cancelled. This is in the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Our question to you is that if there are others at one o'clock who would like to go to the remote control on the OTRK issue, or at two o'clock if the Riigikogu has decided to extend the sitting until 2 o'clock, whether these people can go to the remote control or end the OTRK procedure and go to committees. Or is it that people go to the remote, keep their speech, and then the Minister of Finance comes before us? Is it your interpretation that, once you put this item on the agenda, we will, in any case, be dealing with a motion of no confidence today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U85	That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U86	This interpretation is contrary to the Home and Working Procedures Act. In that case, I would like to note that the Bureau is going against the law on domestic and working arrangements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U87	On the contrary, I am convinced that the manager has no right to behave differently. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U88	Thank you. I certainly don't want to pick my nose or break my hair. I also understand that we need to process this motion of mistrust today. But I have a simple question, which Jürgen Ligi asked: how do we plan our time? What is the guideline for committees when the hearing is over 2 p.m.? Will the work of the committees begin immediately after the sitting, or will the meetings of the committees be suspended? We have a very long agenda in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U89	When the plenary session ends at 2 p.m., the committees will be able to proceed calmly. If the House does not close by 2 p.m. and we have not yet made a decision, the committees will have to find another way to sit. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U90	Thank you. The working hours of the committees on Thursday at 2:00 p.m. are stated in the law. How is it possible that the President is now giving a recommendation or a guideline to overlook it and simply ignore the time in law? It is not an agreement or a matter of any kind of committee, it is the beginning of the work of the committees provided for by law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U91	Paragraph 64 (3) is also stated in the law. Dear Riigikogu, let us continue the debate! As another waitress, I would like to ask one author of the report of the Riigikogu Chair, Professor of Tallinn University, Ellu Saare!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U92	Hello for me, too! So I'm one of the authors who wrote that fat-fat book. My presentation concerns precisely this in favour of integration, which has been one of the topics of the report on human development. I am talking about national segregation in the Estonian labour market. My report is actually based on an article written with my colleague Jelena Helemägi. What, then, do we mean by national segregation, what does that mean? In fact, that is the difference between nationalities in the division of occupations and sectors of industry. Why should we even look into this? Well, it's segregation, so why is it so important? The problem is that the national segregation of the labour market is a major obstacle...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U93	Honourable waitress, one moment, please. People's ambassadors are still upset. I have to ring a bell. [[It's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U94	The national segregation of the labour market is already an important obstacle to social integration because people of different nationalities do not act together. If, for example, we look at the 2015 integration monitoring data, it shows that 56% of Estonians and 49% of Estonians are communicating with people of other nationalities at work. Communication with leisure activities is considerably, noticeably smaller. The second problem that comes with segregation is certainly the perceived inequality resulting from it. Again, integration monitoring data show that only one third of people from another nation feel that they have equal opportunities in the private sector with Estonians. There are even fewer people who feel that these, i.e. Estonians, have equal opportunities to reach leadership in government or state bodies. What, then, does national segregation mean? Firstly, it is a division by activity. If we look at this, it is largely a legacy of Soviet times, because, as we all know, the migration of Soviet times brought a great many industrial workers to Estonia. If we compare national segregation precisely on the basis of activity during different periods in the 1980s and 1990s, it decreased considerably. What was behind it? Mostly, employment fell in both agriculture and industry, which were nationalised. The current segregation is very strongly linked to the national-language distribution in the Estonian education system, based on the school's language of instruction, the level of education acquired and the speciality. For example, when we looked at where Russian-language middle school graduates go, a significantly higher percentage of them go to vocational education. At the same time, of course, the upper secondary school dominates Estonians. What is the reason? As the study of social groups in the field of integration has shown, one reason is certainly that very many graduates of basic schools with Russian language of instruction are afraid to go to upper secondary school. They fear that after a partial transition to Estonian-language education took place in upper secondary schools, they will no longer be able to handle the Estonian language there. And when we look at the distribution of specializations in vocational education, graduates of basic schools with Russian language of instruction learn more in technical disciplines, graduates of schools with Estonian language of instruction more in service-related disciplines. At the same time, national divisions are also linked to what kind of collectives work in. Again, I refer to integration monitoring. This showed that only a tenth of Estonians and less than a third of Estonians worked in mixed collectives, i.e. in collectives where Estonians and Estonians are in half. Thus, there is no interaction between different national groups at work level. Let's look at national division by occupation. When Tiit spoke about this distribution in Tallinn, I will bring out the distribution throughout Estonia. If you look at the left side of the slide, it shows a concentration in the white-collar trades. If we compare, for example, the distribution in 1989, these two top columns, you'll see that the distribution didn't differ very much. If we look at the data for 2015, we will see that the concentration of Estonians in white-collar agencies has increased considerably and Estonians are very much behind the figure of Estonians. If we compare the division of ethnic groups, such as how many people work as top specialists or managers, this figure has been 1.5 to 1.7 times higher for Estonians in 2000. At the same time, if we look at the division of skilled and unskilled workers, the majority of Estonian Russians are concentrated on the positions of unskilled workers. When we look at how education is used in the labour market, the fact that many of those with higher education do not work in a position that requires higher education stands out in the case of Estonians. If this figure is 5% among Estonians, it is 15% among Estonians. This shows that we are unable to exploit the full potential of the Estonian labour market. What is behind this division? Partly, of course, in the 1990s there was a transition to higher education in Estonian. This transition was very steep, not starting from lower education levels, but starting from higher education. While, according to the 1989 Census, the educational structure for Estonians was higher among Estonians than among Estonians who had completed higher education, in the 2000s this percentage is already reversed. This means that the percentage of graduates among Estonians is significantly higher than among Estonians. What does this segregation really lead to in the labour market? On the one hand, our aim was to look at the impact of segregation on labour market inequalities. When it comes to studies, they use the term 'ethnic fine'. This means that the labour market situation of immigrants or ethnic minorities will turn out to be worse than that of a majority or indigenous nation for the same human capital (the same level of education and work experience), including state-centred human capital. This is precisely the kind of capital that is important in a particular country's labour market. Under Estonian conditions, this is definitely an Estonian language skill. In addition, the identity will be examined. If, despite these criteria, the opportunities of Estonians are poorer, then we can talk about ethnic fines. How have we defined this great state-centred human capital in Estonia? First, good Estonian language skills, second, Estonian citizenship. Our goal was to compare the opportunities of Estonians with those of Estonians with that of Estonians with their good state-centred human capital. We have identified three labour market segments in order to see how inequality in the labour market ties in with segregation. One is a mixed segment where the percentage of Estonians and Estonians is mostly balanced. Then there is the Estonian segment, where more Estonians are concentrated. The third is the Estonian Russian segment, which employs more Estonian Russians. The most important thing, of course, is to distinguish between generations. The literature usually brings out the so-called first generation who has only arrived in Estonia, and then the second and third generation. The success of integration is usually decided on the basis of the success of the second generation of the labour market, i.e. the children of immigrants. At the same time, we must take into account that the concept of the migrant generation in Estonia is different from that of the Western European and North American countries. We can talk in Estonia about second-generation immigrants in the case of children of Estonian immigrants who have been born and educated in independent Estonia. This means that we can compare Estonians aged 25 to 34 with Estonians age groups. That is what we have done to compare how good public-centred human capital helps to succeed in the labour market. If you look at how much capital the second and third generation of Estonian Russians even have, then in the respective age group of Estonians the higher education is 39%, the second and third generation Estonian peers 32%. So there's already some inequality here. Secondly, let us see how much Estonian-centred capital this age group has. Only half of the second generation Estonian Russians have spoken and written Estonian. Considering that all of them have been educated in Estonia, this is a rather sad indicator. Estonian citizenship has two thirds of them. This means that about half of the second and third generation Estonians, with only less than a third of those who do not have higher education, have a high level of state-centred human capital. In fact, the acquisition of higher education and this higher state-centred capital are concentrated on the same people. Others who do not have higher education are likely to be those who also have less state-centred capital. When we analysed and compared the opportunities of the second and third generation of Estonians and Estonian Russians on the labour market, we looked at the 25 to 34-year-olds. If you look at business segments, it turns out that in the Estonian segment, for example, second-third generation Estonians have the same opportunities as Estonians to get a high job and a high salary. The problem is, of course, that it is very difficult to get into this Estonian segment. Once they get there, the odds are equal. If we look at the representatives of the same generation with high country-specific capital, we see that they have equal opportunities with Estonians in the mixed segment, but only in the case of high-level occupations. If you look at your salary, it's still their disadvantage. And when comparing this second and third generation with Estonian peers, it is clear that most of them are in a worse position on the Estonian labour market. But once again, it depends very much on the segment in which it works. In the Estonian segment, Estonian language skills are very helpful and there is no problem, but there are still major problems in the mixed segment. And now the main conclusions of our analysis. The second and third generation of Estonian Russians aged 25 to 34, who have large state-centred human capital and who work in the Estonian segment, have the same chance of obtaining a high position and a good salary as Estonians. But like I said, they're underrepresented in this segment. In fact, there is a clear link between the quality of jobs characteristic of the labour market segment and the nationality of the workforce that is concentrated there. The Estonian segment has the best career prospects and high pay prospects. The most favourable labour market situation of Estonians is due to the concentration in this segment, and a very large part of these jobs are in the public sector. What, then, should be the purpose?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U95	Dear Professor, I'm interrupting for a moment. I understand you could use a little extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U96	One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U97	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U98	Thank you. The aim is to ensure that Estonians have access to favourable activities, including the public sector. The 2013 Civil Service Act should reduce the role of social networks in accessing jobs in this sector. Today, social networks are very important. It is these few contacts with Estonians and the lack of access to networks of the main ethnic group that contribute to maintaining segregation. One problem, as Tiit has already mentioned, is, of course, the education system that is allocated on the basis of the language of instruction. But the new system would only be operational for the next generations if we were to switch to it now. What, though, about those already on the labour market? Measures must certainly be envisaged to help young Estonians to raise state-centred human capital. Secondly, there should certainly be more flexibility in accessing the labour market, such as a transitional period, in order to improve the skills of the Estonian language in the course of the work, as well as the provision of language support. If we look, the Estonian segment and high state-centred capital will help Estonians to reach a successful position on the labour market, but the problem is that there are few Estonians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U99	Thank you. Questions for Professor Island. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor! Segregation is certainly not just about the labour market. The above was about education in Estonian, which is very important. I also browsed the report elsewhere. Anu Realo brings out as one of the main messages in his chapter that the media space of Estonians and Estonians is vastly different. We also had a corruption conference yesterday, where it was shown very clearly that the Russians living in Tallinn were not informed about the numerous corruption cases of the city government. The Estonians read about it in the paper. Stolisa, which is issued for the city's money, does not write about it. My questions are as follows. Can reducing segregation in the labour market also increase the overall awareness of corruption, or can it do the opposite? For example, the Russian-speaking members of the central group of Tallinn City Council are mostly all on the town's payroll, therefore in the public sector. Can you be satisfied with the situation that increases segregation for public money in Tallinn, I mean these Russian-language publications?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U101	The whole mass media is just one way to get over segregation. I have just reviewed the work of one of our Master's students, which found that there is a greater likelihood of sense, perception of discrimination associated with those who have poorer opportunities in the labour market. But the information room could definitely be more even, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U102	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U103	Good manager! Good waitress! As I see it, the Estonians have largely the seats of bosses and white collars, and the higher ceiling of the Russians is either a cashier or a black worker. But you are saying that half of the second and third generation Estonians are those who, due to language skills or strict language requirements, are unable to enter the public sector. Should these strict language requirements be relaxed, or should second-third-generation Estonian language learning be dramatically strengthened in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U104	I would, of course, be in favour of this second solution in particular. After all, Tiit mentioned earlier that the goal should ultimately be to move towards a uniform education system. The second option would certainly, as I have already mentioned, be to allow more flexible access to the labour market, just to allow some transitional period in order to improve the skills of the Estonian language in the course of the work, as well as to provide support for the language. If, for example, I look at the graduates of Russian-language schools who have come to our university, they are quite difficult at first, because learning is in Estonian and I do not think the provision of language support is enough in universities either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U105	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U106	Thank you, good Chairman. Good professor! I also ask you to look at the presentation by the previous professor, because the output of the labour market is a consequence. I feel that, in a sense, we lack the courage and the will to achieve those goals that guarantee the survival of our state and state. I therefore ask who should have a leading role here, whether the state, the local government, the private sector or the community. If you look at the example of Tallinn that we discussed in the previous presentation, there is this power game, the cat-mouse game, nobody wants to take the lead. What is your recommendation or vision that should take the lead?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U107	Certainly, the state also has a major role to play, because the public sector is, after all, sorry, the role of the state. When we look at it, access to it reveals almost the greatest differences between Estonians and Estonians. Of course, I also think that this requires cooperation between all parties involved. It is certainly not justified to point your finger at the educational system, because there is nothing the education system alone can do. When we look at how many Estonian language teachers were prepared for Russian schools in the 1990s, for example, it was a very, very small number. And the consequences of this can now be seen if only half of the generation that has completed education in Estonia can speak Estonian on an adequate level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U108	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U109	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I have two questions for you. The first concerns Ida-Viru County. We're talking about average numbers today because of a lack of time. Is the situation much worse in Ida-Viru County than it is in Tallinn? My gut tells me that in Kohtla-Järve, it is more difficult for the Russian-speaking community and Russian-speaking young people to integrate and progress than in Tallinn districts. And the second question. It is as if I have lived in the knowledge that Russian-speaking schools have historically had quite a strong real education. Is that true today? Now, if you think about where our economy is headed, it could give Russian youths a pretty good springboard. Or are there still some factors that will slow down this base of good and strong real education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U110	If you look at the competition on the labour market, this competition is, unfortunately, the biggest in Tallinn. If different ethnic groups are almost equally represented, then there will be greater competition. In Ida-Virumaa, competition cannot be so great that there is much more to do with Russian, for example. Therefore, if we compare the opportunities of the labour market, the greatest differences will actually occur in Tallinn and not in other regions. However, as far as real education is concerned, it is of course difficult to make an assessment. If we look at the results of PISA, for example, they were better in Russian schools, yes, but the latest studies show that the results of the PISA test are also worse in Russian-language schools than in Estonian-language schools. The problem is, of course, why, what has happened in Russian schools, that the previous advantage has become worse. But there is certainly also the problem of whether the public sector is valued and how valuable it is for people who, apart from the national language, speak Russian, for example, and know the needs and minds of Estonian Russians. Is the knowledge of the national language always both a and o?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U111	Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Based on my own anthropological observations, I must admit that this now concerns middle-aged and older people, that if Estonian and Russian people communicate with each other, the Estonian will easily switch to Russian, even if this Russian can speak Estonian quite well, he will force the language. Younger people tend to have English as their language of communication, perhaps not very extensive, but unfortunately in Ida-Virumaa and Narva. The same applies to working collectives in mixed collectives, in fact Russian is the language of communication. If this is the case, it will certainly not contribute to integration. How can the Estonian language become a language of communication in both of these age groups?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U113	I think there is much to be done by the Estonians themselves here, because why do they switch to Russian then? There are also Russian-speaking people in our collective, but we all speak to them in Estonian. It's stuck behind a lot of Estonians. I think that this may be partly related to our earlier language policy and the fact that Estonians sometimes look a bit wrong when the Russians do not speak the language grammatically right. I don't think it's important to be grammatically correct. Maybe that's why the Russian person doesn't have the courage to speak Estonian. I do not know if this is the result of a language policy, but if I have talked to people, they are also exactly anthropological observations, it is said that I do not dare to speak, I do not speak correctly how I will then speak in Estonian. The problem may also be how we feel when the Estonian language is not spoken correctly. I think a lot of us don't speak English quite correctly either, and I personally don't, so I shouldn't have the courage to open my mouth in English at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U114	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U115	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! As for how Estonians view the Estonian language of Russian-speaking people, I can say that so many Russians have started speaking in Tartu in Estonian, although language skills are sometimes rather poor. You're always trying to figure out what they're saying. It's like a five-plus. However, a lot of young people have the problem that they do not speak Estonian well enough. When you go to work in the public sector, you have to know grammar, you have to have vocabulary, and so on. I've heard young people complain that they don't want to be hired. Can't young people in the private sector have language training either at the expense of the unemployment fund or in some way in order to make these people feel better about themselves in society and to make them do better at work? After all, many young people are now taught Russian so that they can do better at work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U116	Yeah, I think that would help. Because if half of the young generation still do not have the skills of the Estonian language to cope with in the public sector and in the labour market at all, I find it quite sad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U117	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U118	Thank you. Madam Professor! Scientists have been talking about what you talked about beautifully for ten years in this Chamber, but we are unfortunately taking it too slowly. It's written on your last slide that the education system isn't helping, etc. My question has to do with this. If you were the Minister of Finance, you would be the Minister of Education or, I don't know, Prime Minister, what would you do to replace the education system, or where do you think this system should go?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U119	First of all, in my opinion, the '90s started off a little bit off the wrong foot. It was a big mistake that the transition to higher education in Estonian was started. Already then, we should have started with what we are talking about, i.e. that all these different ethnic and language groups could be brought together from kindergarten. But as I have heard, again, my anthropological knowledge is not so much wanted in Estonian kindergartens as children with Russian native language. It is feared that if there are a large number of Russian-speaking children, they will only speak Russian. Yeah, well, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, uh, it's, I mean, one thing we can do for these new young people, but we must also consider that there are already a number of Estonian Russians on the Estonian labour market who do not have enough Estonian language skills. To avoid such feelings of exclusion and exclusion, they must also be taken into account and provided for measures. But, as the entire Human Development Report pointed out, the ultimate aim should be to move to a unified education system, not to emphasise the fundamentality of the Estonian language. In fact, Estonians must also consider that if we imagine simply taking our hands and losing Russian kindergartens, we will take all Estonian Russians into Estonian kindergartens, this is not the solution. The whole kindergarten system and the whole school system must be restructured. The textbooks also need to be reviewed, because not all current textbooks are suitable and there are not enough materials to ensure that Estonian Russians and Russian students can manage in Estonian schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U120	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U121	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. On my question, I also touch a little bit on what you spoke about with Arto Asa, i.e. the strength of the Russian school. It has been observed that many capable students are already going to Estonian school. My question concerns those who remain in the so-called'separated Russian school', who do well, are talented. Do they go away from Estonia after completing school education in the third grade or later, at the university? I think we could really use these people. Does your research confirm that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U122	I do not have any statistical data on this, but when we looked at one integration monitoring and how many are planning to leave Estonia, this percentage was quite high. In fact, it is not as you would think, not so much to Russia and other CIS countries, but to go to Western Europe. Of course, we are losing very, very much potential with this. As I have already said, there is a very high percentage of those who have completed higher education but do not work in their respective positions, which I think was 15%. I think it is already a loss for us, too, and we cannot make use of all the potential we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U123	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U124	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! Both you and the previous speech were on the subject of education, and there was a debate on vocational education in the same Chamber some time ago. When we talk about human income and how to manage, we need not a priori talk about higher education, but about how to cope with various occupations. Did you also see in this study or background that the proficiency in Estonian, which is somewhat better for second and third generation immigrants, improved more in those schools where immersion has been applied? I mean, even if we consider it may be wrong in higher education, first of all, to switch to the Estonian language, we could say that sometimes the person is motivated by the desire to study a language more in order to acquire a higher education. In addition to integrating Estonian and Russian young people, were there such links?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U125	I do not think that I have any specific data to present to you once again, but that the immersion classes will certainly contribute to integration. Their graduates are certainly better able to speak Estonian, which is an important indicator of the Estonian labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U126	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U127	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, good colleague from Tallinn University! After all, higher education at master's level is sneaking into English and paid English education. Do you see the potential here for better integration of Russian youth? If Russian young people have a better knowledge of English and have more perspective on learning it, because then higher education is more accessible to them, then they may be better prepared for life and success in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U128	They have to get a bachelor's degree first. I think that once they have reached this point, they will no longer have such a big problem with the Estonian language. The place where this difference arises is more of a bachelor's degree. However, as far as Master's studies are concerned, they are going, yes, partly to English-language studies, but I think that Master's studies in Estonian could help to integrate even better. If, for example, I look at our current course, the master's course in sociology, there are a number of young people from Russian backgrounds and they are doing great. But they're at master's level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U129	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your article 'National segregation in the Estonian labour market' states, among other things, that social networks, including supranational ones, are very unequal in their ability to support success in the labour market. At this point, I recall the story of an islander who told me about a very well-known European politician who, after his active career, will continue to move forward. They meet from time to time in passing at the airport, and when our islander asks how it is going, this man had still answered: networking, networking (i.e. networking, networking). Lately, however, he has responded that connecting networks, i.e. connecting networks. Who should connect networks in Estonia, whether they are networks of influential Estonians or transnational networks, so that national segregation in the labour market is reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U131	One thing is that, unfortunately, these networks are developing on the basis of something. One thing is definitely the education system that helps create these networks, the other is the working collectives. As I have pointed out, a lot of Estonians and a lot of Estonians work in one language and one national working group. But the other problem is how to get there to work in the Estonian segment at all, so that these supranational networks can develop. And when one of my colleagues looked at these networks and how they help to get a job, e.g. the Estonians helped to get the networks to work in the first place, but the Estonians helped to get the networks to work better. The role of the networks and their ability to help overcome segregation, for example, and to secure a better position on the labour market, are very, very different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U132	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U133	Thank you very much. I have three questions. The first thing I would have liked to ask your previous speaker was why one important thing has been left out of the Human Development Report, which is linked to migration, namely climate refugees or climate refugees. This analysis would have been very relevant, that's what I missed. But when I come to your article specifically, I have a little bit of clarification: yes, Estonians are in a worse position on the labour market, but in a worse position than Estonians in general, Russians live in Estonia. Do you have any good recipe or message here that politicians could do? And third. You argued that, in most Western European countries, segregation has decreased over the years, and you said beautifully diplomatically that little has changed in Estonia in the 2000s, in other words, nothing has changed. What does this bear in mind?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U134	Firstly, Russian women live in Estonia. I do not have a good recipe because very many Russian women here are concentrated on very low-paid jobs in the service sector. That's what our research shows. And one way is, as the previous speaker said, to reduce low-paid jobs. As far as climate refugees are concerned, I am not competent to answer that question, which should be asked by the Tiidu in the costaars as they looked at the climate refugees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U135	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U136	There was one more question. I'm sorry, what was that? [[Marianne Mikko from the floor says it was a question of segregation.]] Yes, unfortunately, segregation in Estonia has not decreased, but I think the problem is still, firstly, in language-based networks and, secondly, in a separate education system. In fact, in the 2000s we have not changed anything in this respect; everything has remained the same. Can't wait for anything to change automatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U137	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U138	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Professor, In your presentation, you presented three components of state-centred human capital: higher education, Estonian language skills and citizenship. The conclusion is that young Russian-speaking people should be significantly more supported in collecting this state-centred human capital. In order to achieve higher education, you need to complete upper secondary school education first. The country's recent policy has been that more and more state secondary schools are being created and the desire is to reach a ratio of 60 to 40, i.e. more children go to vocational training. This means that competition has increased when entering upper secondary school. That is what my question is about. How do you assess whether such a policy of the country, where access to high school is made more difficult, will lead to the fact that it is the young people in Russian who are actually suffering. Did that come out of the study?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U139	The percentage of young people going to vocational education in Estonia and the amount of upper secondary school education has not changed at the moment. We can only predict this change. It can't come out of anywhere right now, because what would lead to change has not yet been implemented. But I'm sure it might start to affect you. Again, it depends on how well we can integrate language-based groups in comprehensive school.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U140	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U141	Thank you. Honourable waitress! We are talking here today about difficulties in integration and, at the same time, about a communication-based approach. Sometimes it seems that complex things also have simple solutions. It is a matter of course whether we want to take this into account and whether we can take measures. During the current administrative reform, there is a situation where schools in the outermost regions are left empty, beautiful schools with teachers left. There's the environment, there's culture, and so on. Would it not be conceivable that Russian children, for example, should come to study for a certain time in an Estonian-speaking area where we would teach them Estonian, where there would be an environment in which we would introduce them to our culture, where they would naturally integrate? At the same time, we Estonians would better understand their attitude and perhaps the obstacles to development here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U142	Yeah, that would definitely be an option. One of my former colleagues is just working on bringing together these language-based groups; he started developing this opportunity further under the Youth School measure. But it can potentially capture a very small number of young people. I don't know, maybe there's a way to include a larger number. The problem is precisely those different social networks. As they are language-based, it is very difficult to acquire language skills.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U143	Thank you very much to Professor Ellu Island of Tallinn University! The time for questions and answers is over. Mart Nutt will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U144	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable reporters and rapporteurs from the Cooperation Council. First of all, let me thank the authors of the report on behalf of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. The report is an important document and its authors are doing the necessary and commendable work. At the meeting of the Constitutional Commission on 15 May, the Head of the Estonian Cooperation Assembly, Teele Pehk, adviser in communication matters, Helin Vaher and editor-in-chief of the report Tiit Tammaru gave an overview of the report. The report also created a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, from which I would like to point out the most important issues. However, if anyone has a desire to monitor the progress of the whole debate, it is all in the record. The first question was raised whether the creation of monolingual kindergartens and schools would lead to the successful integration of non-Estonians into Estonian society. The authors of the report replied that they would avoid recommendations, but the choice of a change of direction in the school system would be in addition to the continuation of the current system. The authors of the report can say what possible developments are. The continuation of the current situation means that the Russian-speaking population is not successful in the labour market, and maintaining the Russian-speaking school system would be a disservice to them. The choice is between integration or integration policies and the latter takes greater account of the specific characteristics of the groups themselves. The question of why inequality arose in the early 1990s, which has not decreased or has not decreased significantly, was that this is primarily the result of economic shock and that this process is time-consuming. Concerns were expressed as to whether the Estonian-language population would at any time remain a minority in Estonia as the current population trends continued. The answer was that this is not a threat as current trends continue, but the subject may become topical over a longer period. It was also noted that it is impossible to teach a correct Estonian language if the majority of the school's staff is either Russian or does not speak enough Estonian. However, the emergence of two parallel education systems dates back to the Soviet period, and the subsequent decline in Russian-language school education has now taken place. The Preamble to the Estonian Constitution has assigned the Republic of Estonia the task of ensuring the preservation of Estonian nationality, language and culture throughout the ages. That is the point of the existence of the Republic of Estonia. All other migration, integration, economic growth, prosperity, social security and much more are instruments for fulfilling this task and must be subject to this objective. Migration is an integral part of today's world. However, the question is how to channel migration so that it does not damage or ultimately even destroy our society. Speaking of the need to alleviate labour shortages, we have to say the following. Firstly, as the economy develops cyclically, labour shortages and unemployment vary. Tackling labour shortages through the introduction of labour must not feed future unemployment. The aim of the introduction of migrant labour is to revive the economy, yet we can see from the practice of several countries that, in the long run, it has created an army of numerous unemployed people. Thus, the economy has not won, but because of increased social spending, the pressure on taxpayers has increased. This has been accompanied by tensions in the cultural field as a conflict of values and customs. Estonia has a good opportunity to avoid these negative events if we are able to guide and use migration sensibly and not be tempted by the sweet nectar of greed. Tackling the problems of labour shortages should give preference to all other options, leaving the introduction of labour as a last resort. I bring out a number of options: making maximum use of Estonia's own resources, including the use of older people and people with disabilities, broadening the possibilities of re-training the population, encouraging the return of compatriots, developing technology with the aim of compensating the missing workforce. As long as it is cheaper to import migrant workers than to invest in technology, the business world will continue to pressure the state to do so, as the negative consequences will not be paid by businesses but by taxpayers. In any case, Estonia's need for labour will be greater than Estonia's chances of bringing more people. As long as our productivity is four times lower than in Finland, there is no justification for patching up the economy with cheap labour. The use of a point system for the introduction of migrant labour, as proposed by the authors of the Human Development Report, could be considered. Migration and integration are two sides of a single medal. The problems facing European countries are largely the result of the long-term pace of integration of immigration. It has created parallel societies and ghettos, where people are separated from each other in social and cultural terms, as well as constant tensions. Parallel society also exists in Estonia. I believe that, in the current situation, it is easy to overcome if, in kindergartens, schools and workplaces, people can be crossed by language. True, our parallel society is the legacy of the Soviet occupation, but this observation does not help us; we have to deal with this problem, and no one else will solve it for us. The language immersion, common kindergartens and schools, joint work plus integration measures, such as language learning and a number of other measures, are ways of eliminating parallel societies. If we do not pay enough attention to these problems, we will be faced with the fact that parallel society is getting worse, and immigration will feed it. Honourable listeners! Thank you once again to the authors of the report and I hope that Estonian society will have the wisdom to learn from these constructive thoughts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U145	Questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I share this scepticism about rapid immigration. If you look at this report, it has many authors, and there are quite a few different recommendations coming from different chapters. My question to the rapporteur from the Commission is this: is there a world-viewed whole in this report? And given that another vacuum in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will soon force the rapporteur to become chairman of the committee, is there a comprehensive programme of legislative changes that can be read out here, and will you implement it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U147	Thank you. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has still not discussed the subject of the programme of amendments to the law, and I do not know whether it would at all be a matter for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Perhaps this is more of a matter, for example, of the Committee on Culture or of another committee, perhaps of the Committee on Social Affairs. This certainly also applies to government agencies. I would not say that the report is based directly on the view of the world, because it is not a political document. It is still a document based on scientific research, reflecting the state of play of these studies and the conclusions to be drawn from it. So I wouldn't be looking for a world-view approach in this document.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U148	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U149	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You gave a very correct overview of how the Commission handled and assessed the document. I know you're very familiar with the subject. Are you ready to bring out the most important messages in this report compared to the previous ones? What was left in the Commission and what will sound like to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U150	Thank you. Reports from different years can be compared, but they are actually focused on specific problems. In this way, this year's report has focused on the specific problem most closely related to migration and integration issues. That's why I don't want to make any series of reports. But the most important message I do not want to say is that we have not perceived it before, or we have become aware of it in my opinion, is that the biggest problem in Estonian society is the parallel society, which has led to segregation. And I would absolutely like to emphasise that this would not be misunderstood: the cause of segregation is not the Estonian state, but the Estonian state has paid insufficient attention to overcoming this segregation. And those measures that would help reduce segregation and get rid of this 'parallel society' are, in my opinion, perfectly highlighted in the report. The state should simply learn from this and act on these objectives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U151	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U152	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Thank you for your good presentation. My question concerns immigration, the increase in labour force. The report objectively confirms that the current migration policy has been successful. Perhaps at some point we could reach the point that we are giving up quotas at all and replacing them with a point system that would allow the people we really need to come here without increasing inequality. Did you discuss this whole package in the Commission and do you support it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U153	Thank you. A little of the same question as Andres, and the answer would also be more or less the same. But first of all, the point system and the immigration limit do not necessarily rule out each other; they can also be dealt with together. The question is, if you put in place a point system, is there any more need for a limit number. I think that this issue should still be resolved gradually. As Mr Oakmaru pointed out in his report, when we talk about losing the limit, something must come in place. This situation, where there is a gap, should not be allowed to happen in our labour policy. That is why I certainly cannot say right now that I support the abolition of the limit. But if the point system justifies itself and it turns out that there is no need for a limit, then we will come back to this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U154	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U155	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I, too, will hear from today's presentations the problem of parallel society, i.e. the survival of a bilingual society, rather than finding a solution to the problem. My question is whether Parliament will not contribute to the continuation of this situation, even to the deepening of this situation, because we have started to include 'and' in other languages' in the law. What is your assessment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U156	I think that's not the problem in itself. Translating documents into other languages is not only an internal policy measure but also an international measure. It is actually in the interests of our country that our legislation is understandable in English, perhaps in Russian, French, German or any other foreign language environment. Only for internal policy reasons, I think, should this not be done and we should really strive to ensure that the laws in Estonian are understandable to all people living in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U157	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U158	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your speech, you used such an expression that you must not be tempted by the sweet nectar of greed when organising Estonian migration processes. A very beautiful literary figure. Would you be more specific about where the limit is, from which the normal organisation of the migration process goes over to allow greed's sweet nectar to be seduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U159	Thank you. I don't think there's a figure line like this that I or anyone else can point out exactly. That depends on a lot of things. Just as previous reports sounded, if Estonia had a higher natural population growth, then immigration could also be higher, i.e. we could receive more people. It is a matter of whether there is any need for it if the population's natural growth, i.e. the increase in growth, was higher. What do I mean by greed? I am not really referring here to Estonia, but to international practice. In the '60s and '70s, for example, Sweden, Germany, France and several other countries were brought in a large number of labour force. The question of whether there was a need for migrant labour has not, in fact, received one answer. The question was, in many respects, that they were given in response to pressure from businesses to bring in people who could be paid less. That is the limit of greed if we give in to such pressure and leave our own people unemployed or encourage them to go to countries where wages are higher. We're bringing in a cheap workforce that lowers our salary levels, that's the sweet nectar of greed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U160	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U161	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned the parallel world several times in your speech and stressed that it has actually fed processes in a negative key. We know that parallel worlds have different information space. How successful can other processes be if the information room remains the same? In the example of Tallinn and other major cities, we can say that it is part of a political strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U162	Thank you. Obviously, we are not in a position to change this information room, so we must at least take it into account to a large extent. If we are talking about the information that is being transmitted in Estonia, we can do so. Information from outside Estonia cannot be very much regulated, and I certainly do not think that we should in any way, by administrative means, shut down channels in other languages or other countries. The question now is what we can do. We can implement the measures that were set out in previous reports here and which are very clear in the report. The choice is not to choose between the information space or the measures that may help to harmonise parallel societies. We have an alternative, whether or not to do something about the influence of a stranger's information room. And that alternative, I don't think, is right for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U163	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U164	Thank you. Mart, as the grand old man of Estonian politics and a good constitutional expert, do you think that the transition to the education system in Estonian from the lowest level, i.e. in kindergartens, should take place across the country on the basis of a decision taken here in the large hall of the Riigikogu, or should it remain, as is the case today, that the municipalities largely decide for themselves? This latter, as we can see, restores segregation and therefore has not been in the right direction for decades.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U165	Thank you. Education policy is a public policy, not a self-governing policy. I mean, if some kind of educational restructuring is being undertaken, they must be carried out throughout the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U166	Thank you, Mart Nutt! The time for questions and answers was over. Thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu, I'm opening negotiations. At the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I propose that the representatives of the political groups take the floor first. On behalf of the Yoko Alender Reform Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U167	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitresses! Happy Child Welfare Day first! Estonia will last if we have children when every child counts, if we can create equal opportunities for all children to develop and create our own happiness. It is also important that we design and implement our own and skilful migration policies and extend Estonia beyond our physical borders. The possibility for the state to contribute to the fact that there will be at least three children in the normal Estonian family is limited. But a lot has been done. The Human Development Report objectively confirms that Estonia's current migration policy has also been successful. The population processes have now led to a migration revolution. Since 2015, the number of migrants, including returnees, is higher than the number of migrants. To adapt to the changed situation, we need to develop a proactive migration policy in order not to disrupt the social balance that has been maintained so far, while ensuring the necessary working hands in the conditions of Estonian population development. It is equally important to have a successful multi-country policy such a new word, relations with Estonians who live, study and work for shorter or longer periods elsewhere and who have the freedom to go, the desire to stay in touch and come back. Part of a multi-country policy is to maintain the freedom of movement of the European Union, the citizenship policy of Estonia, public services independent of the location, as well as the public's attitude to the free choice of everyone and to work wherever they wish. Those young people who go to the world to study, test their ideas or earn a better salary for the family are not traitors, but Estonia's great opportunity to develop, establish links, become larger. If we create a family-friendly living environment here and provide education that is the best in the world, which invites home when we see these people as an opportunity, we can also achieve balance in population processes. There is also an area of integration. As long as some of us have seen the possibility of keeping a part of society in another language and information space, integration has failed. If we actually start to see an opportunity in every person in Estonia, we can become larger together. The Human Development Report states: the state selects children at the age of 3 into parallel societies and wonders that integration is not working. So re-creating from kindergarten to inequality, which continues in further educational, residential and workplace choices and is reflected even in life expectancy. It is time for our generation to contribute equally to those who made many major reforms to the establishment of the Estonian state in the 1990s. Why there was no single Estonian kindergarten and school reform, historians may discuss it. The party of the current Prime Minister has amplified the favour of residence-based segregation by bringing together all adult education in Russian in the capital to Lasnamäe, closing Estonian schools there and allowing Russian schools exceptions to the proportion of education in Estonian. By asking about a single kindergarten, we have received vague answers in this very hall. However, it is up to us to take action. Experts have made clear recommendations in the Human Development Report, and the people have also expressed their support. Praxis integration monitoring confirms that about 70%, including respondents in other languages, supports the start of Estonian language learning from kindergarten onwards. It says that the kindergarten has been the preferred option for starting a part of Estonian education over the years, both among Estonians and among residents of other nationalities. It is important to note here that among other languages there is greater support for a model that is taught in a single Estonian kindergarten, where children in other languages also have an assistant teacher who speaks their language. Sounds like a reasonable model to me. The other language population supports early learning of the Estonian language. However, there is currently no overall, simple and logical way to achieve this. In 2014, nearly 10% of students speaking Russian as their native language were in Estonian-speaking schools. Previous studies have shown that Russian-speaking families with a better socio-economic background, who also strongly support the child's educational motivation and success, decide to put the child in an Estonian-language school. But who stands for equal opportunities for the rest of the children, for Russian-language children with a lower socio-economic background? The lack of working hands is an increasingly acute problem in Estonia. However, we must make sure that we do not create further problems in resolving this. New immigration tends to amplify existing parallel societies in Estonia today rather than reduce them. People coming from areas east of Estonia live in Russian-speaking areas, children go to Russian-speaking kindergartens and schools in the region, thus amplifying the parallel societies of Estonian and Russian that emerged during the Soviet period. Estonian President Kersti Kaljulaid writes in the preface to the report: 'Here he will become a politician for his duties, who wants to be a statesman and make decisions that will really shape Estonia for the next generations. ' Both the President's introduction and the urgent recommendation passing through the report are one of the Estonian kindergartens and schools. The change proposed by the current government is not a goal. It is thus confirmed that holding many Estonian lessons in Russian-speaking schools does not lead to active language skills. Why does the current government, led by the Minister of Education and Research of the Centre Party, wish to keep a part of society at a poorer opportunity, another information space, and not to listen to the opinion of experts? It'll be left to explain themselves and the politicalists. I think that Estonia needs every person. There are few of us here. You can't leave anyone out of this. Our ultimate goal should be to offer equal opportunities to all, to create an environment in which everyone's potential can be fully exploited. Fair competition and equal opportunities to be happy and successful, creating prosperity for yourself and your family. I will conclude with a quote from the summary of the report: 'The question of combining the parallel worlds of Estonians and Estonians does not go away solely to Estonia's security policy situation or to the fear of Russia, as it is often addressed in the media. Estonian democracy and its fundamental principles, such as human dignity, justice, tolerance and equal opportunities, are at stake. In open Estonia, whose task, among other things, is to be a defender of Western values at the border of the clash of civilizations, a different nation, native language, religion or skin colour should not be the cause of any special treatment, discrimination or mere encasement. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U168	Helmen Kütt on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U169	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U170	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U171	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable speakers, guests and transmission monitors! Thank you for the presentation of the 'Estonian Human Development Report 2016/2017' and for the excellent overviews. The 45 best and most respected experts and researchers in their area have presented a true picture of Estonia's socio-economic reality and development choices in a 252-page overview. President Kersti Kaljulaid makes an important point in the foreword: "The Estonian Human Development Report is a portrait of Estonia today, together with tools that help to visualize our children and grandchildren in the future Estonia. This will be a politician who wants to be a statesman and make decisions that will really shape Estonia for the next generations. ' I am convinced, good colleagues, that we all want to be politicians in this Chamber whose decisions help to improve Estonia. This year's Human Development Report consists of five major and substantial chapters, such as Migration and Population Change in Estonia and Europe, 'Estonia: Outward Open: Multiculturalisation', 'Immigration and Integration', 'Migrations, Identity and Language Changes' and 'Estonia's Cultural Change in an Open World'. These eight minutes, which are mine to use today, will undoubtedly not allow me to reflect the views of the Social Democrats on all the topics of the report, which is why I have selected some of the issues that have caused the most heartaches and contributions of the Social Democrats through various policies. They undoubtedly shape Estonia, both today and the future. Our focus has been, and will continue to be, an increase in well-being, including reaching out to all people in Estonia and reducing inequalities. I dare say that the state's efforts to improve the quality of life of children and to help the families out of poverty have produced impressive results. But there is still a long way to go in family politics. Of course, the level of public services must be improved, especially in rural areas. The key issues of Estonia's development are in many respects related to education and health care. Further investment in education and improving access to health care provide hope that a development leap can be achieved in these areas as well. Estonians have faith in education. It kept us as a nation and viable even in the most difficult times, gave us faith and hope, and eventually led to the restoration of statehood. Today, education is on the table more than ever, because not only must we be able to provide all children with high-quality education, but also with special needs, but we must be ready to offer lifelong learning to people of all ages. Only this will ensure jobs and security for people in a rapidly changing world. The amount allocated from the state budget to education is increasing, plus the contribution of local governments. They must maintain and ensure the good quality of our convergence school and improve the quality of all levels of education. Today's government has also made important decisions for sustainable healthcare funding. For more than ten years, there has only been talk of the need to give more money to the medical system, because the taxes on working people are not enough. Only the thorough work of the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski and the clear support of Estonian doctors and other medical staff led to a solution. In its budget strategy, the government has planned additional amounts for the Health Insurance Fund for the years 2018 to 2022. By the end of the period, more than EUR 100 million will be added to shorten the queues and get better treatment. Significantly more emphasis has also been placed on preventing diseases and increasing the role of family doctors in Estonia. 69 new health centres will be built in Estonia with the support of European Union money, which are the primary and closest places where people receive health services. If in Estonian society people have a sense of security, that they and their children are well educated and that our medical care is of high quality, then the human development index will also rise. The new Human Development Report focuses on the age of migration. In a situation where demographic processes pose increasing challenges for the country and the people, we need to be smart, fast, innovative and open in terms of society and thinking and communication. Despite the considerable increase in well-being over the past 25 years, Estonia still has a high level of inequality. Many people's expectations of being part of the good have not been fulfilled, and many have left their homeland. There's a well-known saying that fish is looking for a place where deeper, a person, where better. According to this, it's gone. It is true that prosperity and migration are closely linked. The fact that emigration has been less than immigration in the last two years now gives rise to a more hopeful view of the future. There is a migration revolution in Estonia, which means more and more people want to live here. The biggest reforms of the current government have been introduced in the new year, resulting in a tax-free minimum of EUR 180 to EUR 500. This means extra money for more than 80% of workers, or more than 500000 people, which will undoubtedly reduce inequalities in society. However, the question of a million dollars is what should be done to get even more of the departed Estonians back. It must be acknowledged that immigration from itself does not solve the problems of society. We can be sure that the Estonian population will not decline, but if the birth rate increases significantly and there are much more arrivals than the leavers. Only if young people and families have confidence that children can be raised safely here, that good education and health care are guaranteed here will they not leave Estonia. You can also expect to come back to apply the wisdom and knowledge gathered at home. The Social Democrats are convinced that Estonia Nokia is Estonian people. Our people are our iron, gold, and software. By investing in people from birth, we can hope that we will last and become a country where inequality will decrease with certainty and where happy people will live. Thanks to lifelong learning and long working lives, people can participate actively in society for longer and feel necessary. Decent ageing must be possible and natural. Every person living in Estonia counts and it is very important that everyone feels safe. It is very notable that today, on 1 June or Children's Protection Day, we are talking about the report on human development in Estonia and the challenges facing society. I would like to mention the important steps for the Socialists, especially when thinking about Child Welfare Day. I will start with this list of strong growth in child benefits and support for families with child-rich families with three or more children. At the beginning of this year, child support is paid to parents who are raising a child alone and for whom the other parent does not pay maintenance allowance. In autumn, there will be a great deal of support for walking around the circles, which will allow children whose parents' wallets would not allow it. And we have to mention the increasing school allowance for the new year. Good fellows! When I started my speech, I said I was convinced that all of us in this Chamber want the people of Estonia to be good and safe to live. So, despite our different views on the world, I would like to work better with everyone to find a common ground. We have one and a common Estonia. Good luck to us! Happy Child Welfare Day, everybody! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U172	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U173	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, Guests! What do you say? The previous report was such that only fanfare and drum roll were missing. At the same time, I cannot fail to mention ironically that during the 25 years that Estonia has been independent again, the social democrats have been in several governments and the wealth inequality in Estonia has deepened in a colossal manner over this 25 years. So you really need to do a lot to become social democrats, not just fanfare blowers. Work! But let us come to the debate on today's important issue and start from the beginning. We begin with the fact that 25 years ago and more, Estonia's independence was driven by the Estonians' fear of remaining in their homeland in a minority and dying out in the fertile conditions of the Soviet Union. It was the engine of our independence. Today, 25 years later, we are largely talking about the same problems that were on the agenda 25 years ago. At the same time, we are alarmed by the fact that we no longer speak of the nation, it is like a disdained word, it is embarrassing to be an Estonian. You have to be an Estonian. You have to be a member of your people. For God's sake, don't be Estonians! It's backwards, it's not good enough! Nationalism is the European Union's biggest enemy, nationalism is Europe's biggest enemy ♪ Don't be Estonians, be a people of home, Estonians! It is perverse and cannot be accepted, and our party does not agree with it either. Now, 25 years later, the Estonian language is under exactly the same pressure as it was 25 years ago. We see the current government coalition pushing Russian under the name 'other languages' into laws, bringing it into everyday practice. Ministries send out Russian-language press releases; Estonian is under clear pressure. Only the blind can't see it. Yesterday we had a Minister of Culture here who clearly told us, without telling us, that the Ministry of Culture was in favour of bringing Russian to the Song Festival. I read Neeme Järvi's interview in Earthpaper today. Neeme Järvi says in a very clear and unambiguous way: the song festival is an Estonian party and it must be in Estonian. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let us oppose attempts to multique Estonia, turn Estonian into a cuisine language and replace it with the languages of the great peoples, which are not threatened by anyone in the world or by nothing, while the Estonian language is under pressure. Only a blind person does not see it, and only an ideologically perverted person does not admit it. 25 years ago, we wrote in our constitution, which is the meaning of our country. Now this country is being ignored. Today we were talking about the population, not the nation. We are not a population, we are not a labour force, we are Estonians, we are Russians, we are perhaps batad or Arabs, but we are not a population. We're not statistical units. I was terribly disturbed by the fact that the main emphasis was on the labour force in today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, We live in the 21st century, not the 19th century. I think this is some American study that said that by the middle of the century 48% of the jobs currently in existence will be lost thanks to new technologies and innovation. What do we do with these 48% people if we carry them in here again from Ukraine? We met with the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U174	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U175	I asked him what the attitude of the Police and Border Guard Board towards visa liberalisation with Ukraine was. He said it was a big headache. Of course, as an official, he did not take a more precise political position, but he made it clear: this is a major headache. This is also a great headache for us as a nation, because, let us be completely honest, Mart Nutt said the same thing: we are not wanted to have a labour force, we are wanted to have a slave labour force. They want to bring people who are willing to work for a lousy salary who are socially vulnerable, with whom the most accidents at work occur. That's the kind of manpower they want to bring us here. Instead, and that is what I have repeatedly said from this remote control, that we would establish a national return agency, bring our people who are now working abroad as Kalevipoegs, home, guarantee their residences and their children's schools, teach the Estonian language to Finnish and English children again, talk about bringing slave labour to Estonia. Our party will never accept this and fight like the Avenger's last sword against it. I can put my hand on the Bible to confirm we're doing this. And I'm sure we have a lot of allies in this room. The report should be as balanced, apolitical. I have read the report on this report, it is not balanced, it is not apolitical, but it is clearly inclined towards this propaganda that we need to raise the population and increase our workforce. It's clearly leaning towards it! When I listened to the presentations, I was not in the hall all the time, in the meantime I listened via electronics, it was also in the ear, especially when it was about why the Russians did not speak Estonian: they did not want to. They live in the space of their great culture. They don't want to, they refuse because they have a great language and a great culture. They don't have a kitchen tongue. It's that simple. Let's be honest! But when scientists say they think and believe it or something, I don't, and I don't believe those scientists. I expect facts from scientists based on research. And that's the facts we heard today. Very much research has been done and very much was interesting, but too much was ideologically clearly biased in opinions and belief. Don't bring us any opinions and belief in this hall, because that's not how we solve the problems! We solve problems with factual, sober and honest analysis. I'd probably be talking here for a few hours, but I'm running out of time right now. So I say that I am very grateful to the scientists for coming here. I am grateful that this debate has been organised. But I want to emphasise once again in conclusion: we are halfway there. We are not completely honest, we are honking fanfare here and reeling drums where there is no reason and creating some ideological pink cuffs. There's no point! There are also perfectly sane people in the hall who don't even eat pinkmanna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U176	Mart Helme, your time is up. Priit Onion, please! A procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U177	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. I'll check it out. It's 1:00. According to the Home and Working Procedures Act, we ran out of working time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U178	The President of the Riigikogu added one item to the agenda, and I think this increased working time. Priit Sibul, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U179	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu, I would also like an extra time. First of all, many thanks to the authors of the report and today's speakers! Ladies and gentlemen, The Estonian Human Development Report is a ruthless document, the pages of which also include a picture of the demise of the Estonian people. I know that there are people in this Chamber who think it's inevitable and are convinced that nation states are an obsolescence of the past. Yet, most of us do not feel that way. Most of the people in this hall are ready to stand in the defence of Estonia and the Constitution. As the current migration and demographic processes continue, the indigenous population in Estonia will remain a minority. Each deceased Kalevipoeg increases the pressure on employers to fill a low-paid job with immigrant workers who are willing to work for less than the indigenous people. The deceased Kalevipoeg might come back, but not until he gets paid for his work. Each immigrant brings costs to the country. Each migrant's child is essentially a child with a special need from the point of view of his or her education system with a lack of language skills, with additional financial needs and a burden on teachers. It's been our custom to ignore it. I do not want to say that it is time to stop all immigration and build walls. On the contrary, the arrival of skilled workers must be simplified. We have already done so in this composition of the Riigikogu. Today, the arrival of employees in the information technology sector and start-up companies in Estonia has been greatly simplified, including large companies and investors. This policy direction should continue to be maintained in order to reduce bureaucratic obstacles to the entry of qualified workers into Estonia. They are also people who find it much easier to achieve coherence with this society. The other half of the coin is low-paid jobs and filling them with migrant labour. The short-term bringing of hands does not outweigh the values of the nation state. We can't confuse these sides of the coin. We know what problems Europe has faced with the second and third generations of immigrants who have been brought as a elementary labour force, and if we look closely, we can already see these phenomena. These problems are often adorned with Georgi's tape, an identity search aimed outside Estonia. This identity is not found in the cultural background of the country of origin, but in hostile ideologies, whether it be Stalinist imperialism or radicalised Islam. The IRL has taken steps to influence demographic and migration processes. We have stood for valuing the birth of a third child. We are trying to increase the income of low-paid workers by means of tax changes, in the hope that more children will be born and people will not move. Whether these solutions are sufficient and whether they are good enough is the question. However, the greatest threat to society is not migration, but mythology, disinformation and therefore fears, as well as the tendency to lose confidence in the choices made by the state. I have three suggestions. Firstly, the debate on migration and national issues should become an annual undertaking in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, where we analyse what is happening and assess whether the measures put in place and the choices made are working well enough. Secondly, there are many myths related to migration. In order not to give too much weight to mythologies in a difficult situation, it makes sense to make all the information related to migration public so that everyone can answer the question of how many refugee families or single refugees came from the Middle East, how many of them have left, how many workers have come from Ukraine, what crime is among immigrants. In the case of labour immigration, we must give priority to those with high qualifications and high pay. As I have already said, together with the Ministry, substantive solutions need to be found to reduce bureaucratic barriers to moving such a workforce into Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U180	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U181	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good people's representatives! Honourable guests! On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would first like to thank the Cooperation Council, all the authors of the report, the authors of the articles and the rapporteurs today. This report is the self-perceived description of the Estonian society's self-perceived self-perceived self-perceived information about what we are now. First of all, I would like to commend the overall structure and presentation of this report. It is very easy to read it because the most important postulates will be mentioned at the outset, which are the main points. The whole subject is divided into five chapters, and at the beginning of each chapter its editor has emphasised separately all the most important articles and the individual views of the articles. In this way, it is easy for everyone to look into one article or another. I would like to contradict the honourable Mart Helme: it is not an assessment, a belief or an opinion. Each article also contains proper references to literature used, and it is possible for all to make sure that scientists are not merely based on their own opinions and beliefs. There are many important messages in this report, all of which need to be thought through one by one, certainly more thorough work, but for us in general, the issue of parallel societies, which is now very topical in our lives, was the most obvious one. On the other hand, perhaps even the most concise conclusion was that 25 years of Estonian society has built our infrastructure, it is then a real foundation or a foundation-like infrastructure. Economic success, achievements in this area, in order to be very good, good and prominent and properly present in all international rankings, is at the forefront. In these 25 years, against the background of this great ambition, the person has been left in the background, the social problems that have created parallel societies, which we are now looking at and feeling. This is part of our present life and our great task is to find a common part of these parallel societies, with the support of individual policies. In this report, there are completely new concepts that need to be understood by scientists, both in this Chamber and in the wider society. For example, branching. After all, branching is a manifestation of our daily lives. We've got a lot of people exposed to it every day. But when we look at our cultural policy, we see that multinationality has not found new meaning in cultural policy. However, making Estonia bigger depends on us and on our understanding that Estonia will become bigger through people who live and work in other countries. We should be able to provide them with a daily link with our homeland, regardless of where they are physically located, and show them how they can contribute to Estonia. That's one plus for our digital state. However, looking at the role of culture as a key to the development of a multi-opportunity society, it must be said that we have not been able to exploit all the opportunities of the digital state in the cultural field either. I have had a great deal of experience with digitisation myself and have still been wrong in interpreting this digitised repository. A digital repository that reflects the cultural sphere must be a source that allows you to be in daily contact with a place where your home still has your life, where your social contacts are. The undertaking, which the Free Party Group will certainly very much support, is the harmonisation of the education system. This is the basis for the elimination of parallel societies. And we can discuss here why it's only now coming to this. It may have been overlooked in our society, or it has been buried under other objectives, or it is hoped that the problem will disappear from itself. However, as the Human Development Report shows very convincingly in itself, problems related to the meanings, symbols and perceptions of different languages and cultures do not disappear. One of the greatest tasks of a country like us here is that the state must create opportunities and prerequisites, including the necessary support structures, in order to eliminate this parallelity through the education system. Go on, migration issues. In this area, Estonia can rely on its smart and knowledge-based decisions. The transition to the point system can only be based on tried and weighed practice, but I would like to point out here that it cannot only be based on the Oska database, but precisely on the data on the skills that our labour market needs now and in the future. As far as the identity of our people is concerned, we are used to hearing that Estonian identity is very ethnoscentric. However, it may be necessary to think more about the development of society, core values, the carrying, promotion and preservation of which still depend on the indigenous people, or Estonians, when defining their identity. Nothing cardinal happens tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. We need not fear that the Estonian will remain a minority in his country. But an Estonian will not remain in a minority if he can sense and be proud of the wealth of our culture for himself and for every other person. What is missing for us in this report is the sense of civil society, the sense of what we have. But all in all, thank you very much. It's a picture of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U182	On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of March Sults, please! Igor Gräzin has a procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U183	My veker shows it's 1:18. I just walked in and made sure there's a meeting. What is the case here? Novgorod waterches, or what's that? The hearing was supposed to end at 1:00, but according to my information, it hasn't been extended. You can't do this alone. I mean, what's the name of the event that goes on here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U184	This is a Thursday plenary session of the Riigikogu. Paragraph 64 (1) states that the President shall open and close the sitting. Paragraph 3 of the same section states that if there is a point on the agenda which is the subject of a debate on the disclosure of censure, the sitting cannot be closed until a decision has been taken on the matter. Do you still want to talk about it? All right, I'll explain more, then you don't have to ask so many procedural questions. Good friends, everything is very simple. You know very well that some wish to delay the question of mistrust to next week, while others want to vote on it now. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, and there's a lot of comments.]] Hey, let me answer your procedural questions now! I've been trying to figure this out so we can throw and be polite to everyone who's come here today. There would have been an opportunity to discuss the motion of censure as item 1. We didn't do it. (Someone says, "You could have! No, but why would we do that? Why should we be rude to the excellent people who came to the Riigikogu today to discuss an important national issue? [[Comments from the floor.]] It would've taken a half-hour break. There's no difference. The question is, are we going to be polite with our guests or are we going to get our asses kicked? Paragraph 64 (1) says that I will open and close the sitting, and paragraph 3 says that if there is a question of mistrust on the agenda, it will be discussed until a decision is taken. Would you like to continue the debate? Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U185	Thank you! Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! I respect all the people who have come here and who knew that on Thursday the Riigikogu will discuss a matter of major importance until one o'clock, and if that time is not enough, perhaps until two o'clock if the Riigikogu extends the session. The Riigikogu has not decided to extend. The President of the Riigikogu cannot arbitrarily assume the right to extend the session without the decision of the Grand Chamber of the Riigikogu. With regard to § 64 cited several times again: § 64 (3) gives the right to proceed with the matter on the agenda. As regards the debate on mistrust over the time of the sitting, the assumption is that the debate on this item has begun. We can discuss it today, there is no problem, we can vote today. Don't think we can't vote on it today. Of course we'll get it today, we'll get it tomorrow, and we'll get it next week. Respecting precisely those people who have come here today, I also want to say something about the Human Development Report. But it doesn't matter to you that you say you open up and end the trial the way you want. The frame of the law is in the way, Eiki!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U186	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U187	Thank you. I am very sorry that we have to hold this debate, and I am also sorry that the Board of the Riigikogu has decided to go on a completely arbitrary interpretation of the Law on Home and Working Procedures. Article 48 refers to the amendment of the working time schedule of the Riigikogu. We are now discussing a point that is not related to mistrust, and in order to continue the discussion of this point, Article 48 of the Act should have changed the timetable for the work of the Riigikogu. As we have done every time, we should have extended the sitting today. This is possible if that decision is adopted by a two-thirds majority. This is provided for by the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. We have not done so and we are discussing a point that is not a matter of mistrust. Why aren't we filling in § 48?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U188	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have the same question. Unless this is a discretionary right in this Chamber, I have a sincere request that you, as a young member of the Riigikogu for a career, name the section of the Law on Home and Rules of Procedure which gives the Chairman of the Riigikogu or the Chairman of the Management Board the exclusive right to extend the session of the Riigikogu. I'll check the papers to make sure it normally ends at 1:00. If the sitting is to be held until 2 a.m., it is put to the vote. What paragraph do you rely on when you take the sole right to decide to extend the sitting to 2:00?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U190	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U191	I want to draw attention to something. Maybe you'll fix yourself up a little bit. You're kind of suggesting that what's going on here is a kind, well, kind attitude toward us that you love us and so on. Can you assure me that your love has nothing to do with it? We appreciate that, but it is not your job to love us, your task is to manage the work of the Riigikogu, which, as you can see, is not happening now. I mean, by analogy with Novgorod's waterches, we have achieved a situation where the head of the Riigikogu, who is officially a great brother forever, is actually just like an argument in the square, because we have abandoned the Rules of Procedure. I didn't mean to ask. Please tell me what you're doing! You're not running anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U192	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I want to make a comment, ask a question and I would like an answer to that. We are dealing with procedural issues now, not just rhetoric, saying rhetorical sentences. I have experience that I have been on the board of the Riigikogu for four years. I do not recall the case that we have, for whatever reason, decided that the Thursday sitting could be prolonged without any vote. If there had been any vote before 1 o'clock and it had been decided to extend the sitting until 14 o'clock, or I don't know, 24 o'clock, it would have been legal. I interpret the current situation in such a way that our sitting is not lawful and the decisions that we are now taking are not to be enforced. What is your comment, please, on my comment or question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U194	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U195	Thank you. We didn't get an answer to the previous speaker's procedural question, and that's impertinence. It is merely impertinence, and of course, such conduct does not show any respect for our guests. The question is this: do we have to start imitating the Ukrainian and Turkish Parliament here, where things are being made clear with our hands, or can we, however, deal with the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U196	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! With your permission, I will answer all your questions at once. Once again, § 64 (3) states: 'In the case provided for in § 134 of this Act, the sitting shall not be closed until a decision on the agenda is taken. ' This item on the agenda referred to in § 134 is a motion of distrust. If you read comments on our home and work arrangements in this very beautiful yellow book, you will find a sentence that this is an exceptional case, and the hearing will then continue until the result of the vote is reached, regardless of the timetable of the work of the Riigikogu. That has been the point of this provision. This idea is also perfectly natural and logical. Let's continue the debate! On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U197	Colleagues! I am pleased to inform you that one day 25 years ago, or a lot more or less of Estonia's re-independence. And then they sat down and began to discuss whether there had to be a basic school and upper secondary school law in Estonia. They've been discussing it for seven years. In the meantime, schools and kindergartens worked as they could, as the directors'conscience guided. Then they began to discuss the immersion of the tongue and took over the Canadian model. After all, the Indians learned English, so the Russians should learn Estonian. There was an insane cry of money down there, and they started discussing it again, but nothing was accepted. The money was spent, but there was no one in charge. Estonians did not speak Russian and the Russians did not speak Estonian. The identity when this one disappeared, the blue black and white flag was a shame when someone put it in the chest. Then they started discussing again. They voted, discussed, sat at night, in the morning and in the evening, and discussed again. And so they're still discussing. And now we put three points:... and that's how they died out. Hey, guys, comrades, comrades! Let's stop this joke and get serious! Thank you very much to the researchers who have done the research, very thorough work! Very well done! But every scientist also knows that scientific research is based on two things: theory and practice. There's been a bit of a knock-off in practice here. I've been at school for 30 years. I've been at school for 20 years. Right now, I get the impression that open doors and windows are being broken in full. Everything that they say doesn't exist. I mean, language learning is done on the ground, although it is not accepted, integration is done, mixed schools have long existed, even though the Ministry of Education has banned it. It is as if the Reform Party has discovered that children can be taught in Estonian in Russian kindergarten. It's been done for decades! If you haven't seen it before, if you haven't come to the crowd, that's your problem. Come to North Tallinn, and you'll see how this works. The language immersion in Tallinn Art High School has been taking place for the seventh year. In two years' time, the first 9th grade will finish, which has learned "back and forth" or used a two-way immersion. Half the class is Estonian, half the class is Russian. It was once forbidden by your Minister of Education. I've even received an order as director for not complying with the law on basic school and upper secondary school. It's right in my frame at home. But I did it for the students. So basically, all these things are happening. But to the scientists, so that these studies can be more accurate, please recall the excellent thesis of the old classic Karl Marx. Scientific research implies that theory must be proven in practice. If it is not possible to prove the theory in practice, then it is pseudoscience. And as long as it's not possible to link science to a mathematical model, it's pseudoscience. So, please, let's all try to write down the numbers! Reform partyers, please, be so kind, look what people have done! Breaking in through a door that's out of the way or open doesn't make much sense. Mardi's claim that the Russians do not want to learn Estonian is somewhat doubtful. In Narva, I saw enthusiasm, saw how some Russians wanted to speak Estonian, but they were not given an opportunity. There was no country where you could speak Estonian. Power-kick!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U198	Let's continue the negotiations. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U199	Honourable President of the Riigikogu and the good listeners who have stayed in the Chamber! I'm asking for more time, just in case!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U200	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U201	On behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to apologise to our guests for having a circus that does not comply with the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. At the same time, we are pleased that we can discuss the Human Development Report. This is a very important national issue, if not the most important issue of all, which we have discussed in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. I would like to thank from the heart all those people who have contributed to this are indeed many and from very different walks of life. The two ideas in this report are exactly what we have always expected from the Human Development Report: the survival of our language and culture and the survival of our people. The issue of population is, in any case, a question that we cannot overlook in the coming years. There has already been talk of language learning here, and yes. The sober peasant mind tells me that the younger you start learning language, whether it's official or in a "natural" environment, the better the result. It is best to learn the language as a child. Political debates are currently taking place on whether language learning should start earlier in Tallinn. In my opinion, it is natural that when a foreign language child enters a formal learning environment, he or she will be taught the official language immediately. But as long as he is not in a formal learning environment, he will acquire himself in the language space around that language. This is the first important observation of this report. I hope that all politicians, not only in Tallinn but also elsewhere, will understand that if there is a need to adjust the legal space, this must be done. There is a little less cultural in the report, which is why I will not stop so much at culture today. The issue of migration is also linked to the issue of population. Sober peasant mind... There's some noise outside the hall, you can hear the sound of March Sults. Has the Riigikogu hearing been transferred there? The sober peasant mind tells us that if we do not change anything in our behaviour, if people my age and younger than me do not realize that the birth rate of 1.6 or a little bit is not enough to have more than a million inhabitants in Estonia in 100 years' time, then the issue of migration will also need to be addressed in addition to raising the birth rate. I did not ask Professor Tammaru in vain whether or not a migration quota or immigration quota was needed. I do not want to talk about quotas, but, as the law states, the immigration limit. Indeed, the immigration limit was established in its time. Looking at the substance of the matter, leaving aside the political agendas, it seems that the immigration limit no longer serves its purpose. We need smart immigration and smart immigration is the immigration that the country controls. And the country can control immigration by setting the necessary criteria. Whether we call it a point system, whether we call it another way, is not important. What is important is that as a country we control who we allow to enter Estonia and under what conditions. Small concessions can, of course, be made. In the European Union, we must take into account that the free movement of citizens of the European Union means that, for example, a person who has never migrated there in Germany may come to Estonia, but that does not mean that he can live and work in Estonia without taking account of our conditions. He or she needs permission to work, he or she needs to be registered in the employment register. That's smart migration. I think it would be good if we could keep these two issues on the agenda here in the Riigikogu. As Mart Nutt said on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, these are not issues of local importance; they are national issues. It would be good for us to be able to set the principles for formal language learning within the two years that remain within this membership, namely formal rather than voluntary since pre-school education, and if we were able to discuss migration without emotions. With this, we would do a very great service to the next generations. The Estonian state will survive and the scenario, which I think was highlighted by the black line in this book, will not materialise: I mean, instead of the current 1.3 million, there will be 395,000 fewer people by the end of the century. No one's interested. At the same time, we can't put our headphones on and say that no one can ever come here. All the more so since the same report states that immigrants to Estonia are more highly qualified and highly paid. Thank you once again to the authors of the report. Very objective, adequate overview! For my part, I would like to see a large Chamber of Riigikogu taking up and dealing with two issues: language and migration. Then we have reason to hope that the next or the next human development report, which focuses on the same issues, will already have more positive graphs. We hope to see that the number of people living in Estonia, including the number of Estonians, has remained at least the same. Ideally, of course, it could grow a little bit. Good luck to us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U202	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U203	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, 26 years may be enough time to take some stock of Estonia's developments, including integration or integration. At this point, I would also like to thank the authors for their very dignified work. In my presentation, however, I will focus on the subject of integration. Were those comments surprising to me? No, it wasn't. I'm one of the few people in this hall who has studied in Russian school. So I know what it is. I know what the Estonian educational model is, and I can tell you from my experience whether this model favours Estonia's common development, whether it is a model for the future, or whether it is really high time to do something about it. Regarding language learning, Märt Sults said that problems are not.. everything works perfectly from kindergarten onwards. It's not like that! We will take Tallinn, where only 20% of Russian children have the opportunity to learn deep language. Not everyone can do that! We all know, and this is clearly stated in the report, that language learning and language skills basically lay the foundation for the success of your career. Whether you succeed, whether you are highly educated, whether you are highly qualified, whether your material opportunities are good. Let's look at this big schedule! The service sector is an important sector in our economic model, but it does not exploit all the potential that many people are capable of. I agree that keeping schools in two different languages is not sustainable. After 26 years, we can say that. This system does not guarantee the good quality of education for all. The results of PISA show that the children of Russian schools are about a year behind the Estonians, so the quality of Russian schools is not suitable for the future. Are the career opportunities for children studying in Russian schools good and equivalent to those of Estonian graduates after graduation? No, it's not. One of the key issues is language skills, if this is poor, the chances of a person getting to a university and getting to a good job are small. Which model do I recommend to my children? I want my children not to have this price tag on their little head so that my ceiling as a non-Estonian is a person serving others in the service sector. I don't want it. I want the child to choose his own career and have all the doors open. The state has a very important role to play in this, and the state must encourage it. Many children living in Estonia do not speak Estonian well enough, but not because they do not want to learn it. The state must create opportunities to learn the language, but the country does not, in my opinion, create these opportunities by maintaining parallel school systems. It was already said here today that the sooner we start learning Estonian, the better it will be for children to learn. I can see it on my own. I will be honest with you that I have never learned Estonian. Never! And I am very grateful to my parents, who put me in the Estonian kindergarten deep under the Soviet rule. I don't want a different fate for my children. I do not want them to sit behind textbooks and learn Estonian like this. I want it to come lightly, as easily as the native language, that is, playing and developing in kindergarten. Then they no longer have a problem at school, they do not have a problem at university and their career doors are all open. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U204	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U205	We create a school for the future where children in both languages are together and where their parents go together and where both language teachers work together! We have heard here that one major problem is that there are not enough socialisation sites. School, the education system is where a person gets used to being surrounded by people of different nationalities. All of them are there together to get a good education. In my opinion, the most successful integration project is in the Estonian football team. Maybe I like it because I've been doing this sport. We all see Estonians and non-Estonians hovering shoulder to shoulder on the playground, defending the honour of the Estonian state. I think I'm proud to look at it. There are no Estonians, Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians there are Estonians, all like one. It is also passed on to fans, they too do not know whether one football player is Estonian or Russian. We all see that one of the most popular football players is Konstantin Vassiliev, and I think the fans of the Estonian team are chanting his name. I think that this is the way Estonia must be: united, strong, common goals! What's my point? Let's make our children's lives easier! We will make life easier for children from non-Estonian families by giving them the opportunity to learn Estonian already in kindergarten, taking in-depth education there already, and making a unified school system where Estonian and Russian children are together, where those who want to learn Russian culture and speak Russian. That too must be possible. But let's put our kids all in the same room because we have one Estonia and we can't keep two Estonias! Less slogans, more action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U206	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U207	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good listeners! It is very exciting to discuss such questions in this Chamber. When experts are on the remote, it is good to look at the faces of colleagues. Everything depends on the outlook, and when experts say something to someone's liking, their faces will be happy and later it will be enjoyable to express that joy in the remote control. It is as if today the reform party has a happy face. Experts have said something that matches their ideology. I, on the other hand, had to think more about the presentations that were good for the rapporteurs here and the questions put by my fellow Members. There is a saying that parents' sins must not be punished by children. I mean that our historical heritage is, unfortunately, one that has promoted over-enhancing immigration. It is this unnatural immigration, by its very nature, that has produced the problems that we speak loudly about after our independence. On the basis of this report, one might now ask what things could have been changed, which things could not have been changed. After all, we have noticed, and this is confirmed in the report, that the second and third generations of immigrants are more successful in their language skills and aspirations. But not enough to avoid all the problems. Proposals and discussions on how to limit immigration and bring the Kalevi sons back home are also very much related to certain ethical dilemmas. On the one hand, as a country, we have done the right thing and said that we expect highly educated experts in Estonia. This is part of our immigration policy and has been seen as a success. On the other hand, we see that people who are striving for a better life than they are now able to do in Estonia must realise themselves in other countries. And this realization in other countries often means that they get a higher income, but not a better position in society. As a result, it can be extremely difficult to apply your abilities. Now for the language question. If two simple things are put together So we need to work on it. Without a comprehensive national solution and a positive coercion, it will probably not be possible to implement it. Does the current situation mean that certain generations will have to pay a fee in certain years for decisions that have been essential and inevitable for us? I am thinking of regaining independence, rapid economic growth and trying to get rid of the historical background? I'm sure it could be the cost of all this. It is sad, but for certain generations to live in freedom, certain generations have had to pay with their lives. But I dare say one thing. We have discussed a wide range of national issues in this Chamber as well as in society at large. Today, we heard reports on several occasions about Estonian Russians. This means people who speak Russian as their mother tongue or as their first language in Estonia, who may not be Russians, but may also be Ukrainians, Georgians or anyone. From this perspective, when we look at raised language issues, we have deliberately transformed this problem into an interpersonal or intercultural conflict. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U208	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U209	But I dare to say, based on my experience and expert opinion, that the nature of Estonians is this, if any countryman speaks Estonian, it is very easy for him to integrate. Figuratively speaking, the Estonian melts when a person from another language room speaks Estonian. We must take language learning seriously, including to start teaching Estonian widely in kindergarten. Because everything that happens later on in the labour market is clearly influenced by language skills. Of course, the unemployment fund also helps people to work in certain occupations by improving their language skills, but it may not provide them with the good language skills that respected experts considered here as the language skills of value-based education. I do hope that the honourable Riigikogu will have enough wit and intelligence to make decisions in the near future, bearing in mind that future generations will be part of the whole space rather than live on parallel worlds. I didn't hear the assessments today, and I didn't know how fast and whether we could reach it through a natural process. Perhaps we should use pressure mechanisms. But the fact is that, in the interests of different attitudes and involvement, we need to be more active so that these processes work. So I dare wish the honourable Riigikogu serious discussions for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U210	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U211	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add my thanks to the authors of this report, because the whole issue has been dealt with in a very balanced, very thorough and very diverse way. The main feature of the report is that of balance, and that of an issue which is often dominated by emotions. Such a balanced approach is, in fact, extremely rare. In view of this balance and depth and the approach from different aspects, I think it is, if not the best, one of the best human development reports that has been made in Estonia. Thanks to the guys who did this to me! I only want to touch on one subject. I want to talk about people who have grown up in Estonia but who have gone abroad for some reason. I would like to talk about those who would like to come back to Estonia or who have already come back, i.e. the returnees. In today's world, it is quite common and it is very good that people go abroad from time to time. It is good to go on a tourist trip, but it is even better to live on the ground a little bit and get acquainted with developments in your profession or go to school, in contact with the functioning of this whole society. 'Cause that's where the thoughts come from, that's where the understanding comes from. And when they come back, they'll figure out what's good here and what's bad here and what can be done better. They are better able to understand society, they are able to draw parallels. In our globalised world, this is particularly important when young people are studying and discovering the world. Unfortunately, things are that we are going to learn more when our people go to study elsewhere. So we should also keep in mind that our young people go abroad to study and then come back. But when it comes to those who have gone abroad to work and maybe want to come back to Estonia, they are disappointed. They have not returned because many of our countrymen have encountered problems with adaptation in doing so. There are two problems that these people often raise. Firstly, how local life works, how the local community works. And secondly, how people feel, potential colleagues, about those who have been working abroad for a while. There has been a great deal of talk about how difficult it is to get kindergarten places and how confusing things are with the harmonisation of school arrangements. This is where the country can come to help, and often it comes to help, so that things can finally be settled. Very much has also been said that the community is rejecting the returnees. The community is rejecting, I stress, the same Estonian people who have lived here for a long time, but have been working in Finland, Belgium or England for some years. These people are disturbed by different housing and work arrangements at municipal level. I really hope this gets better. And then the other side: the way we view our own people who come back. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U212	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U213	Many doctors and other medical staff have furthered themselves in Finland or elsewhere and then worked locally for some time and then wanted to come to Estonia for a professional job. We need these specialists. We're always saying we don't have enough specialists for one thing or another. We have Estonian citizens who would like to come back. But they're gonna run into trouble. A person competes and is accepted not because his knowledge is incomplete, but because he is looking for some formal reason to reject a person. If we start to think about why this person is not wanted to be employed, we will see that the fear of the people who were here is that this new person is simply too competitive. He's stronger than they are. And then people will leave again, they will be disappointed in Estonia. The same has happened to those who have come to Estonia because of family ties. It's hard for a foreigner to find a job. There is a fear that a person who comes from abroad to work will have more experience and better skills. I have often sensed that a person who has learned something elsewhere is a better specialist and has more experience and knowledge than the locals. It's fear of a stronger competitor. But we do not think that this person will also give us something to add to, that we can learn from him, to do things differently, based on his knowledge. And then there'll be intrigue, bullying, etc. It makes things miserable. So how can we talk about coming back to these Estonians? They won't come back if we treat them badly if we do everything we can to make them feel unwell here. I hope, however, that we will overcome this fear and begin to accept in the future those people who would really like to live and work in Estonia. Because believe me, if a person wants to act here, he will act and do so in good faith. Over the course of history, Estonians have still included among themselves people of very different nationalities who have been here for centuries. Among my acquaintances are people with Turks among distant ancestors, Germans among my ancestors, probably Russians, Swedes, Finns or whatever. Why are we afraid of them? They will probably adapt here, we will live together in a fun way and make Estonia's life better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U214	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U215	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, the few remaining followers of this debate! I did not get the word 'procedural' before, so I would like to make an introduction to the statement that we have obviously been somewhat distracted by § 64 (3) of this question. I am prepared to fully accept that this paragraph applies to a motion of distrust, but the President would probably have done more than to extend working time to discuss an important national issue that is currently under way. After all, our practice has usually been that such discussions last longer than 1 p.m. Such an opportunity should always be taken into account by the committees when discussing a matter of major importance. These discussions are longer and they are interrupted at one o'clock, when not all the political groups have got the floor yet, it is not pretty. I largely share the compliments of the Human Development Report. You can't get into everything that fast, no doubt, but all the formality and insight are pretty good. The problems that come out there are, of course, painful. The most painful of all is the decline in the working-age population and its possible compensation by immigration, i.e. the inevitability of immigration. To a large extent, I agree with the Commission's rapporteur's view that neither forced or rapid immigration can be any joy for society. This has been demonstrated quite well by poor experience in other countries. Given Estonia's small population, the non-large size of our population, it is certainly a very big problem for us and a challenge for us how to solve it. Yes, highly paid specialists, welcome! Welcome back to our own people who have gone to the rest of the world! I think Estonia is actually struggling with the trap of mediocrity. This is why not only people with lower qualifications are going to implement their workforce in neighbouring countries, but also very good specialists, Estonia's own citizens. So all efforts to bring them back are extremely important. Now, however, the inevitability of immigration, which is shown to us in the report. I agree to some extent that nature does not tolerate an empty place. This is why the emphasis has been placed on language learning from kindergarten onwards and on reducing segregation. This is an extremely important issue. It must be acknowledged that we could have achieved much more than we have achieved, not only in the education system, but also in the Estonian country that has re-independence since then. The problem of segregation is wider. On my question to Professor Ellu Island, I also raised the issue of media. He couldn't agree that it was actually a big question. And this is also a particularly big question when public money is used to keep different communities even more separate and different information fields. That's very bad. I would point out this particularly to the Centre Party, which has allowed this to happen. Our parallel worlds are also mentioned in the case of last week, which led to the resignation of Minister Korb. We have a deep attitude that we are talking different stories to Estonian-speaking voters and Russian-speaking voters. It is totally unacceptable that this is being done, but we can still see that. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U216	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U217	Not that much is needed, but there is another question that I deliberately raised before the Commission's rapporteur. Does this report, put together by very different but very well-known scientists, actually have some sort of cross-cutting feature from which to derive some single code of conduct on how to improve the law? Or is it reflected in some sort of world view? The answer I received was a correct and good answer in this sense, so that there should be no need to know the view of the world in the report. Sometimes social sciences are associated with social democracy, but it would be better if the Human Development Report were passionate and clearly factual and did not impose any definite solutions. Within great limits, as far as I could see, this report stays on this path. It is usually the case that you read a chapter and have a problem, and at the end of this chapter there are also some suggestions, and then it is a sense of humor that it has to be done. But if you read all these chapters and think about these controversial problems, including the question of labour shortages as well as the issues of preserving the Estonian language and culture, our sustainability issues as a nation at all, these things can cross one another and frankly the picture becomes more confusing. The more wisdom you read, the harder it is to make decisions because there are no simple decisions here. But in any case, the factual material is, in the opinion of the members of the Riigikogu, very grateful and thank you very much for that!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U218	Laine Randjärv, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U219	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and good guests! Although formally this sitting is now in the record and a verbatim is being written on it, I am not sure that, although we are having a very meaningful time, discussing a matter of national importance, it is necessarily legal that is happening here and that everything we have done since one o'clock here can be considered to be happening in the session. I couldn't help but say it, because my heart really hurts because of it. I also know colleagues from coalition parties who have expressed exactly the same view. But to come to today's subject, I would like to focus on integration issues, because this is an area in which I can consider myself an expert. Thank you very much to Professor Ellu Island, whose presentation is an epoch of creative value! This is an obvious example of how scientists can help politicians make unpopular political decisions. After all, the report supports the view that no matter what nationality children live in Estonia, they could receive Estonian-language education from early childhood education. I have to say that my experience is that people who have come to Estonia after regaining independence are better integrated. Indeed, those who have come here in the years of the Soviet occupation, some of the universities in Russia and other republics, have come with a different feeling than those who have chosen Estonia to live after the nineties. Studies have also been carried out on this subject. It is not only a question of language skills, but also of loyalty. I think that, along with the teaching of the language we are talking about today, history should be taught, in one of the information rooms. The scariest thing to do is live on parallel worlds not only in terms of language and "modern information space," but also in terms of interpretation of history. This is something we all see how history has been interpreted differently in our day, and unfortunately our own colleagues are speaking in different languages by giving different channels of information with different orientations or emphasis. However, I do not want to raise this issue for a very long time. All the wisdom has already been told. But as a choir leader, I would like to point out that the song festival movement has also been attempted as an integration tool. Mart Helme spoke a few words about this; it has been spoken about this remoter in the context of inquiries in recent days. The Song Festival is an event that must definitely integrate and integrate all people who step under the song line and sing together. It just has such a powerful power. However, it is certainly unacceptable to use the Song Festival Plan as some sort of political integration mechanism. That is why I want to say here once again that we start with early childhood education, start with kindergartens, and not only with language training, but also with cultural history and history. I believe that we do not have to stretch this rubber indefinitely and discuss in decades' time whether the Estonian people are still integrated, whether someone is assimilation or forced to be a loyal citizen of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U220	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U221	Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the Human Development Report, we get a nice overview of statistics and figures, but it doesn't say half of the basic problem. It is not said that we once had great concern about the preservation and survival of the Estonian nation. That was one of the reasons we wanted to become an independent state. That was why we wanted to regain our independence. It was even written in the Constitution that the state of Estonia was created to ensure that Estonian language, culture and nation were preserved. Unfortunately, in this report we read about the Estonian population, the working hands and immigration, but there is no word in it that the Estonian state is a nation state. There is no word about why our people exist. Nor is it that the existence of the Estonian nation is threatened. It is no secret to any population scientist that if the total number of immigrant contingents accounts for more than 10% of the population, then any integration, any assimilation, is forgotten because there are different communities that do not come into contact with each other. Today we see that this is really the case. However, we are advised to worry about the small birth rate of the Estonian people instead of developing economics, innovation, automation, robotics, digitalisation. Instead of making up for the loss of work, we are encouraged to import hundreds of thousands of immigrants. Does this increase the possibility of integration in any way? Does this in any way increase the prospect of the Estonian nation's survival? Not the other way around! Such proposals are seriously contrary to our national interests and also to the Constitution. After all, we are encouraged to destroy ourselves and our nationhood with our own hands. This very opera also includes the talk that we should lose the immigration quota at all. This quota has already been diluted with 17 exceptions, which actually allow for unlimited admission of immigrants. The provision that Estonia does not accept mandatory immigration quotas has been removed from our framework document for the European Union. We have no limit, but today we are being advised: Let us bring more people! The notion that immigration compensates for the shortage of workers and the decline in the population is extremely short-sighted and wrong, because immigrants are also ageing. They too will need exactly the same social security, pensions, etc. at some point. Are we going to replace them again with new immigrants? During the Soviet occupation, the reasons for immigration were exactly the same: we have a shortage of hands; we have to bring more people. During the Russian era, five to seven million people went through different estimates, half a million of whom remained here. The population of Tallinn was 127000 around 1945. It was almost half a million in 1989. And if before Tallinn was an Estonian-speaking city, then at the end of the Russian era it was not and still is not. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U222	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U223	If we continue with this same policy, simply trying to move forward without changing the structure and innovative nature of our economy and bringing a large number of immigrants to Estonia, the result will be catastrophic. According to the United Nations, if the European Union wishes to continue in the same way, there should be 1.6 billion immigrants in Europe. Can you imagine that this is still Europe? Can you imagine that besides hundreds of thousands of immigrants, Estonia is still Estonia? That Estonia is a nation state, that Estonia is a state that stands for Estonian language, nationality and culture? Of course, he's not anymore. So this report and these recommendations are, well, how to say... I will say briefly: when assessing the sustainability of our Estonian people, these recommendations are extremely short-sighted, extremely destructive, extremely damaging. I'm seriously asking you to think about why we're here. We are not here to ensure that there is just some vague Estonian state that no longer has any connection to the Estonian nation on a good day. Remember why we are here, why Estonia exists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U224	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U225	Good guys in the hall! Today we are talking about the Estonian nation, the Estonian people, the state of the Estonian people. One of the very important components of the state of the Estonian people is the state of his parliament. If the Estonians and the Estonian people no longer have a democratically, normally functioning parliament, then in my opinion the rest of the demographic debates simply do not matter, because there is no one to discuss and there is no one to decide anything anymore. In this sense, all of us in this Chamber owe an explanation to the distinguished guests here, to the waitresses and to ourselves and to the people of Estonia. We have a very popular quote in circulation that they love to repeat, but they forget the end of the quote and forget where it comes from. Tavi Aas loves to say that it doesn't have to be honest. He has to seem honest. Where did it come from? [[Interjection.]] That's right, that's Lion Feuchtwanger's "Edu." There's another quote that I came here for. The same minister of justice, Klenk, who said the sentence that Taavi Asa likes, has also said: 'By twisting the law, you must not afford to make formal mistakes. " This is what we saw now: Ignoring the form became content. Did you notice that the mentality of our meeting changed to 13.05? I walked in here and I noticed something happened. I mean, there was this mutual respect, the respect that, despite everything, has been there, and the democratic atmosphere that has allowed us to communicate with each other outside this hall. We understood that we are no longer strictly taking Parliament, and we began to realise that Hopsti, we are just allowed everything. And the fact that this report was now also discussed suddenly became secondary. What is the point of us talking about the future of the nation when we lost 13.01. Parliament, just in front of it, behind you. I mean, we stayed the way we are, we're all nice, nice people, and so on. And it's all great. We're a song party, we're a group of friends, we're brothers, we're fate mates, we're road companions, yes, but it's not the Riigikogu anymore. I came here to confirm the suspicion of my charming fellow fighter Laine Randjärv. Whatever I'm saying here, you see, boys write everything down and have whatever protocols and stuff. But I don't know at all whether what we're doing here has any legal meaning at all. Who would answer? I think that the first thing that comes to mind right now, which is absolutely obvious, is the administrative court. This is not a constitutional issue, it is a common internal problem. The Commercial Code and other provisions also provide for what to do when the Chairman of the Business Council or the Chairman of the Management Board starts making decisions alone. These things happen all the time. Think of Chrysler's story in the U.S. about how Lee Iacocca started! These things happen. So, we've all talked nice things here. I agree with everyone, and I can discuss it, and so on. But I want to draw attention once again: discussing the future of the nation and the future of the people is losing their sense when this people no longer have a legislative head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U226	Thank you to the authors of the report. Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The debate on this item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U227	We will go to the next item on the agenda: discussing the requirement of censure on the part of Minister for Finance, Sven Sester. Let me give you a little introduction to the procedure for discussing this item. The Minister shall speak first and may then ask questions to the Minister. Every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask one question. Then there will be negotiations between the political groups, and then there will be a final vote. Please, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U228	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U229	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I take this opportunity to say a few thoughts from my heart about my mistrust. It is true that the Estonian economy has not had sunny times for years, even in spite of the change of governments. However, the clouds have started to dissipate and the sun has started to shine from behind the clouds. The fact that Estonia's gross domestic product increased 4.4% in the first quarter of 2017 compared to the first quarter of last year is also a sign of a possible recovery of faster economic growth. Of course, renewable demand in foreign markets is strongly behind here. But in the first quarter of the year, the Estonian economy showed more decent growth over a long time. All of us know the saying that the pill is going to be long in beauty. The Estonian state must not repeat the mistakes made on the brush of the previous boom. However, Estonia's economic ambitions cannot be limited to the fact that we have achieved a few decimal places of economic growth in the first quarter of the years. In addition to the rapid growth of one quarter, we should also look further, i.e. how the Estonian economy has recovered from the crisis. As the economic growth rate has been disappointing for several years in a row, our economy is still quite low. We are working to ensure that the good growth of the economy is also reflected in the next quarters. A fiscal policy to support demand has been recommended by the European Commission throughout the European Union. Growth is not to be feared, but must be supported in every way. More detailed decisions on fiscal policy can be made in the autumn, after the new and comprehensive economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance has been completed. The state budget must be submitted to the Riigikogu in September. Of course, we are also prepared to make adjustments to fiscal policy if the economic situation so requires. I have also said in the past that maintaining a structural balance as a longer-term average provides an opportunity for the government to stimulate the economy. This option can be used, but it does not have to be used. In Estonian politics, not many ideas have emerged in recent years that would actually change our lives. The programmes of the political parties prior to the previous elections were long and detailed, but there were very few ideas that would have an impact on the society at large. There have been some ideas, though. One of them was on the IRL. For this, as a politician, I have stood before and after the elections, and I will continue to stand. Tax-free income reform will bring down taxes on labour and will do so forcefully. This will also help to alleviate one of the most complex problems in the Estonian economy, the shortage of employees. Next year, the tax-free income of people on low and medium incomes will rise to 500 euros per month. This additional income motivates people to prefer work to live out of grants and to come to work for people who are not currently active. It will also provide relief for entrepreneurs who have to compete against each other for the ever-decreasing labour force by raising wages. In many ways, the additional money received by workers returns to consumption and boosts the economy. From a social point of view, this is one of the best tried and tested tools in the world to reduce poverty. This is probably why we and our good coalition partners from the Centre Party and from the Social Democrats all stepped behind this idea and became the core of the government agreement. And the core of the coalition agreement is even more ambitious than the IRL hoped and believed in drafting its election program. In addition to those working for a lower salary, people who receive an average salary will have the first EUR 500 tax-free as of 1 January 2018. This is a major change. It would have taken 32 years for the government to move on the previous ten-euro step. Such a vigorous reduction in labour taxes can be realised by shifting the tax burden from earning to consumption. Of course, when tax increases are taken individually, they cannot be pleasant and it is easy to forget which, thanks to additional tax revenue, will improve. In addition to the tax-free income reform, the government has been able to take or launch a number of necessary steps, which, of course, are not mentioned in the distrust text. I'll name a few. The end of the previous government union was marked by a conflict on the participation of members of the Riigikogu in the councils of unconstitutional state companies. I have consistently maintained this line so that national companies are managed in accordance with private-sector rules of play and good practice. Following the example of large private stock exchange companies, the members of the Board of National Companies are elected by a nomination committee with the majority of the top private sector executives. The members of the Riigikogu no longer participate in the councils. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will not participate in the councils of state companies in the future, even if the Reform Party comes back to power. Several companies have said that in the meantime there were many years in which they could not get to the Minister of Finance. I am reminded here, unfortunately, of Jürgen Ligi's famous statement today that entrepreneurs are only 4% of the society that they complain about. There really are only 4% of them, but they generate 90% of the tax revenue. Who else would you talk to if you didn't talk to them?? The Minister of Finance has always taken time to listen to entrepreneurs and a lot of feedback has been taken into account. The government also has other meaningful and real growth-enhancing decisions. We are imposing a lower rate on the regular profit distributions of 14% of the company. We operate on a global market and this improves Estonia's attractiveness in competition for new investments by entrepreneurs. We will reduce the tax burden on employers by allowing workers to be accommodated and transported tax-free at the expense of the company, as well as spending on promoting workers' health. We are making the taxation of participation options more favourable so that Estonia is a good place for fast-growing businesses. We are also dealing with cutting red tape. For example, for start-ups and small businesses, we are creating a new, completely bureaucratic, 20% tax-free business form in Europe that can be used from next year. Yes, you heard correctly: this is a completely bureaucratic form of business and twice the tax rate. The opposition's work is to make criticism, that is self-evident. However, it cannot be said that, in addition to complaining, the opposition would have offered some real and substantial alternatives to making our economy grow faster. Let me remind you that the previous government programme did not go beyond a marginal reduction in social tax in terms of reducing the tax burden on labour. There is no doubt that it is the easiest way to put together the state budget by doing nothing. If Estonia were a museum, where the main concern was that visitors would not harm the exhibits, then this could be the case. But Estonia is not a museum, but a functioning and ambitious state whose development is at a stage where we cannot only hope that it will improve in itself. This government has undertaken more than a few of the previous, and as a minister, I am part of this team. If the government doesn't like politics, you could have filed a motion of mistrust in November, the day after the government union signed the treaty. Good coalition partners! Good opposition! As I have already said: I believe that growth must not be feared, but supported in every way. If you look at government policy as a whole and government policy as a whole, not just tax changes plucked out of the whole, which have recently been heavily criticised, then this government and coalition agreement have also been made to support faster growth. That is what I have worked for with full responsibility. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U231	Wait a minute, let's wait for the questions. There aren't any. Still, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U232	Please provide evidence that I have never said anything like you just said. I've said that entrepreneurs are 4%, what are they complaining about? Please provide evidence!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U233	Thank you. I'll send it to you separately, I did some homework yesterday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U234	Once again, Minister, thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. First of all, it is possible to speak to those who have submitted a motion of distrust. So, first of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U235	Can I have an extra three hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U236	An extra time, eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U237	I asked for hours. But unlike the Minister of Finance, who started with slander, I will start by quoting: 'The state cannot go the way in which the welfare improvement rushes to live at the expense of the money borrowed. In the longer term, this would have disastrous consequences, as demonstrated by today's European debt crisis. ' That is what Sven Sester said in commenting on the 2012 budget presented by the speaker here and, in order to be certain, at the time of reading the draft budget for 2013, he said: 'The balance of the state budget, which has been little talked about, is very important. It is very easy to raise the budget by increasing the deficit and putting it into expenditure or investment. We see where Europe is with its budget deficit. That our budget is balanced is one good thing that we can be proud of in Estonia by looking at Europe and, in fact, the whole world. ' As Minister of Finance, we and I were helped by the debt crisis to establish a structural balance, or fiscal sustainability rule, and the same Sven Sester was able to speak again and say: 'On the other hand, we are legitimising clear budgetary balance rules, I would even say clear rules of play. As a result, in the future neither we nor the other parliamentary parties will have the opportunity or temptation to live beyond their means by drawing up a state budget. ' And he has also written that the IRL stands in the Riigikogu for not reaching the budget with promises that are too strong for the state, which would lead to an increase in the tax burden and an increase in public debt. In 2016 and 2017, however, Sven Sester is proud to go to this remote control as a hero reporting more than he can on spending, increasing public debt and tax increases, repealing the rules on fiscal sustainability and refraining from temptations, and states that he has already carried out Estonian public finances in the eyes of the countries of the European Union, for which he himself warned in previous years. And it is not really about the budget deficit, but about sustainability, about the rule of banning the deficit, not about the specific budget. A man with that word is not reliable and is not suitable for finance. The reserves and structural buffer collected by previous governments will go to one government for day-to-day heating. After Sester's losses, governments will be forced to cut the budget at a time when society already needs to cope with a sharp reduction in the amount of money coming from the European Union to the budget. With regard to responsibility, Sven Sester has such a screaming vacuum that even Ardo Hansson criticizes his actions as selfish. Hansson believes that the fiscal stimulus is currently undermining the growth potential of the economy. That is the case: the labour market sets temperature records, internal consumption is disproportionately dominant, inflation is picking up, but export demand has recovered. Nothing in Sester's story solves any structural economic problems, but only deepens them. We will never experience an economist approach in the case of Sven Sester, who should be the leader of public finances. He doesn't talk about economic paradigm. We have called for this in opposition, but Mr Sester is still talking about economic recovery. Sven Sester is able to say, six times in the evening, to the criticism of the Bank of Estonia and the Board of Budgets that it is damaging: will you be satisfied with economic growth? ' That is not the answer of the Minister for Finance. This is also not an honest man's answer, because he has promised the electorate that he is on the right and keeps the budget balance, while the minister's position has taken the view that the economy is a socialist construction and a furnace heated by the grace of a party bureaucrat. He speaks in the key to gambling, depending on the card race, and with as much confusion as possible, in the hope that an empty card looks like a trick. Recent data confirm that we have been right for several months on the subject of the acceleration of growth, but the rulers still answer that they are stimulating the economy and attracting entrepreneurship. The entrepreneurs are in business. They are furious, they make statements that have never been submitted to the government, because for the first time in Estonia there is also a tax race. Sester's actions are fair in the sense that part of the additional costs are paid at the expense of new taxes. He says there will be no car tax, there will be a car fee, there will be higher registration fees, and there will be increases in the price of the special benefit. He says no bank tax, no bank tax. He says that there will be a social tax ceiling and that social tax will not be reduced by 1%, that there will not be a progressive increase in income tax, there will be a exponentially disappearing tax-free minimum. He says he fights the thickness, and charges 1% of the calories. And he promises a tax-free minimum of EUR 500. But it doesn't give the poorest fifth of the population a cent, it takes away a quarter at all, and it only receives a third of the averages of 62 euros. The tax relief from collective declaration of income is also taken away from the weakest. The road charge for transit heavy duty vehicles will become a double tax on domestic cars and will also apply to light duty vehicles. The tax on the pledge has not been withdrawn. The public is deceived by the fact that banks will eventually be taxed, as if they had not already started to pay the dividend tax. But their accumulated profits are actually not taxed and they say that this is the way we agreed with them. The excise duty on packaging is not better for the environment than for the old one, but simply to add to the present one in order to wrap up the impudence of the budget. Sester has confirmed: 'I met entrepreneurs! '. He bragged about it today. According to Thomas Luman, this meant that he met his principal, Sester met his deputy secretary, and somehow it all happened in the same office. This is not a credible policy and it is not a reliable talk. Sester assures me he's just following a coalition contract. This means, in fact, that we only pool one vacant post. A statement of distrust is really a very personal matter. It's a personal matter to me, too. I'm one of those people who's built all their politicians what Sester used to brag about and what he's now destroying. Let us put an end to this shame and distrust the man who does not deserve his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U238	There is also an opportunity for the political groups to negotiate. This option is not recommended. However, Kalvi on behalf of the Hard Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U239	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Social Democratic Party is certainly not supporting the mistrust of Minister of Finance Sven Sester today, for one very simple reason: Minister of Finance Sven Sester is really fulfilling the direction given by the coalition, the coalition's task of changing Estonia's life. This needs to be radically changed in precisely what we are doing to improve the well-being of our children, our families, our people. We all know the new things that have already taken place this year. We know that the most important thing for our entrepreneurs is our human resources. We try to strengthen and develop our human resources, including our children, by means of various measures. These are all measures for which payment is to be collected. Minister of Finance Sven Sester has done this work and we think he has done well. Therefore, the Group of the Social Democratic Party does not support the mistrust of the Minister of Finance today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U240	Martin Helme, on behalf of the EKRE Group, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U241	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to have a eloquent speech for a very long time, but I want to object to some of the things that, hopefully, the soon-to-be minister has presented to us here. First of all, I would still like to draw down very boldly for everyone that the growth figures that have just been published are not in any way, not at all, the service of the government that is currently in office. This is primarily a service to foreign markets, which is the result of the revival of Estonian exports. Among other things, the use of euro money has also contributed, but this is certainly not the service of the current government. We see that the current government and the current Minister for Finance are building a new boom that will inevitably burst into pieces with a big bang. You, dear coalition ambassadors and ministers, are preparing Estonia for your current monetary and economic policy for a new recession. It was commended here that Estonia's exports will be revived, so you will destroy our competitiveness, so it will take away the opportunity to export more easily from us in the coming years than our neighbours. This means that tax revenues that could be exulted, jobs will also disappear and, ultimately, we will be in a much worse situation than we are now or were some time ago. That's what I want to say. Yes, we have a left-wing government. A few weeks ago, we suspected that the Minister of Finance, who once considered himself to be the right, would simply pursue the left-wing economic policy of the left-wing government, but after the tax debates in this Chamber, it is quite clear to me, at least, that one of the two: whether we have a completely principled and no world-view finance minister, or whether he is the left-hand side of the heart, who likes all the new taxes and the raising of old taxes. I would like to remind everyone that the right, unlike the left, understands that every euro that the government distributes has been taken away from someone else. The current government takes money away from couples, for example. She lost her husband's joint tax return, leaving it with only a declaration of expenditure. Of course, the whole government is responsible for all of this policy, but the facts mentioned by Jürgen Ligi are, in my opinion, those that make it absolutely impossible to support the continuation of the current Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U242	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U243	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Still, some are satisfied, others aren't. We always have a choice. We always have options. Whether I drive home by train or by bus, I buy a dog or a cat. There are also choices in state life. We can choose a situation where local authorities are not satisfied with what is happening. We can choose a situation where medical workers and intellectuals are not satisfied, where people show their dissatisfaction by leaving the country on a massive scale. Or we can choose a situation where these people are content and silent, but there are no others. These are our choices. It would have been a long time ago for us to change the state's policy, turn it face to face towards the people, towards the local authorities, towards the social sphere. And more should have been invested. That is the current coalition policy. Understandably, not everyone can be satisfied with that. Lomonosov-Lavoisier's law says: it is not possible to take a place in such a way that nothing disappears from it. There's still something to take from somewhere. We'll solve all these problems, and we'll have plenty of time for that. But today we confirm that we support the policy of the current coalition and oppose a motion of distrust. I spoke, of course, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U244	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U245	Honourable Chairman! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This government was appointed in November, and I absolutely understand that not everyone likes it. In the morning, there was a meeting with Igor Gräzini, who said that the aim of each opposition is always to distrust the coalition. He'll do it if he can. That's what we'll see today. We can discuss who likes which tax changes and which do not like or whether the growth targets set by the government are correct or whether they should be different. The opposition accused the coalition and also the Minister of Finance of twitching. Unfortunately, I must use the same words about the opposition. It's been a while since I heard they were looking for a reason, and they thought and talked about mistrusting Prime Minister Rata. Then someone came up with the idea that it might be more comfortable or reasonable to take Sester as a pawn this time. This has been the use of the word of the opposition for some incomprehensible reason. If the Minister has been accused of raising taxes, he will equally be criticised for incomprehensible reasons when he tries to find solutions for how to cancel taxes. I think it's best to go over the mirror for a moment and think about what and who's to blame. We have agreed on certain policies in the coalition and they have been implemented under the leadership of Sven Sester. The IRL Group supports the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U246	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U247	Honorable speaker! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Mr. Secretary of Finance! I'm honored to remember a 15 year ago. I remember exactly Sven Sester coming into politics. In that year, the current Minister of Finance was a pawn when he was nominated for local elections in Tallinn on the IRL list. He's definitely not a pawn today. Yeah, he hasn't become pawn king or pawn flag, but he's definitely become one good knight at least if you use chess terminology. That is why his role in the present coalition cannot be reduced in any way, as my previous speaker did here on the platform. As Minister of Finance, Sven Sester has managed to do something completely unique and incredible. I am thinking of the fact that, although he spoke a few moments ago about communication with entrepreneurs and has for years been the key person of the IRL in communication with sponsors and entrepreneurs, so massively opposed by entrepreneurs, as it was in the joint approach of business organisations sent to us and the public yesterday, I do not remember, at least not about Estonia's recent policies. It is natural that entrepreneurs worry about weakening the business environment, that they do not understand the tax policy of the current coalition. That's what's complicated and impossible to understand. We all have our favorite expressions. One of the favourite expressions of the Minister for Finance is, in my opinion, 'we are looking at the big plan'. Now, look at this big plan, really, but the current government isn't looking. The current government does not understand the far-reaching impact of its decisions. The aim is very short-term: to get money to cover your promises. I recall a meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where I saw from the faces of the members of this coalition that they did not like this new tax policy very much. When I asked one of my colleagues in a corridor conversation, "Hey, tell me why you're doing this," he replied very sincerely: but we also want to win the election for once. But this is not the way to win an election! A far-reaching strategy is missing. But who, if not the Minister for Finance, could be expected to combat bureaucracy and the state capitalism that yesterday's business statement refers to? But this fight doesn't seem to be anywhere. Mr Jürgen quoted earlier statements from Mr Sven Sester from this panel. It's all black in white. It can't be undone, although maybe today someone would. This puts the Minister in a very difficult position, at times, you could say, even in a schizophrenic situation. He has said one thing, then he has spoken of you as Minister of Finance of the previous government, and now, as Minister of Finance of this government, he is talking about a third. So when is he himself? When has Sven Sester been himself? Is it when he said that the budget balance must be incorporated into the Constitution, or is it now when he says that it is no longer important? Such a situation can, excuse me, eventually lead to personality division. We should get Sven Sester out of this. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I understand that the current coalition and the IRL cannot, in particular, come along with the distrust of the opposition, your pride does not allow it simply. Okay, so vote against the mistrust today, but do something about it yourself tomorrow! Get Sven Sester out of there and replace the finance minister! He really does not have to make all the political shortsighted and foolish thoughts of coalition mates come true and take responsibility for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-01_U248	That concludes the negotiations and we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since this is a vote where a majority of the Riigikogu's membership is required for the adoption of a decision, please make a check on the presence! 94 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote the publication of censure by the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. Please take a stand and vote. 42 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 52 members of the Riigikogu voted against, with no abstentions. The Riigikogu did not distrust the Minister of Finance Sven Sester. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 2.53 p.m.
