ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! [[There's a big buzz in the hall.]] Honourable Riigikogu! Very Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Monday session of the 4th working week of the VI plenary session. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U2	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Very often we hear from this board of representatives and ministers about European values, the right of peoples to self-determination, human rights and all other beautiful things, and how these are fundamental values on which Europe stands at all. I was in Catalonia on the weekend, and when I read there the position of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the events in Catalonia, I had to go underground for shame. Behind this message was the Socialist Minister for Foreign Affairs, who in his election ads says that the Social Democrats are the most pro-European party in Estonia at all. I do not understand what this European spirit is about when the people expressing the desire for self-determination of the people get beat up with noodles, but our Socialist Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply silent and not speaking about it. We have made an inquiry to find out whether the basis of Estonia's statehood, the right of the peoples to self-determination, is still valid in Estonia or not, and how should the police still view the democratically expressing people brutally beating up. We will present this question to the Foreign Minister. In addition to the eight members of the Free Party Group, Tiina Kangro and Igor Gräzin have also signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U3	Honourable Riigikogu, I understand that you are excited, but I still ask that we listen to those who hand over the drafts. Hanno Pevkur will do it next. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Some time ago, we discussed the procedure for the election of the council and whether the right to stand as a proxy should also be exercised by a person who has been convicted of a crime. The current law provides that a person who has been sentenced to prison and is in prison cannot apply to the council. However, no force will prevent a person who has stolen, bribed, or otherwise abused his or her position as a candidate again. In my opinion, this situation is neither justified nor reasonable, which is why the Reform Party Group will pass a draft law to amend the law on the election of the local government council, the Riigikogu Election Act and the European Parliament Election Act. The bill states that if a person has committed a professional crime and his or her sentence has not been extinguished, then prison should not only be an obstacle to running, but also if a person has taken a bribe, there should be a sufficient argument that he or she should not be able to decide on the fate of public money. As a result, we have a proposal to amend the law on the election of the local government council and other laws in order to prohibit people who have committed a professional crime from running. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U5	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U6	Honorable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, I have the honour to refer an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Its theme is the size of the constituencies and the number of mandates. Nobody in this hall has the news that we have an intra-Estonian migration, and an increasing proportion of the population is concentrated in Tallinn and Harjumaa. Moreover, as a result of the administrative reform, the size of several counties is changing. If there is already a situation where the number of mandates in different circles is very different, we think it is too different, for example, in Lääne-Viru County there are 5 mandates, and in Harju and Rapla County there are 14 mandates, then by the time of the next Riigikogu elections, these elections are no longer far off, this difference may widen even further. So far, there has been an unwritten ideal and an agreement that the constituencies could still be more or less the same size. This is not too small a question, because the number of mandates in the regions depends on the constitutionality of the result of the Riigikogu elections, regional representation in the parliament in general and, perhaps most importantly, the credibility of the electoral system in the eyes of the voters. As a result, we have formulated four questions for the Ministry of Justice in the name of the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U7	Okay. Martin Helme, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U8	Yeah, I assumed we'd go to the agenda now. I already signed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U9	No, wait, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U10	I'd like a word on the agenda, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U11	Just hold on a second. I have adopted three drafts... I have not adopted three drafts because the representative of the Government of the Republic, Heili Tõnisson, has not yet been able to deliver the drafts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U12	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law on Business Support and Credit Guarantee. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Second, the draft Land Improvement Act. Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U13	Thank you. Look, now I've adopted three draft laws and two questions of understanding. We treat them in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have a message, too. Today, after the plenary session, the Riigikogu Women's Association is held in this Chamber. It's called by Liisa Oviir, so I'd like you to meet me at Liisa Oviir's. Incoming check, please! 76 members of the Riigikogu are currently present in the plenary and there are no 25. Adoption of the agenda. Please, Martin Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U14	Thank you. I look at the Thursday agenda and I see that there are two items on the agenda. The first is the debate on a key national issue. According to the documents sent to us, for each waitress, about 50 minutes have been planned, i.e. half an hour for the debate on the draft law on the annulment of the partnership law. It is obvious that we will not reach the vote on this draft, which is very unfortunate. Would it be possible to change these items between themselves on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U15	The motion is...? Your proposal is...? [[???Martin Helme saalist: 'Tõsta neljapäevane päevakorrapunkt nr 2 esimeseks punktiks.'???]] Martin Helme proposes that agenda item 2 on Thursday should be No 1 and No 1 should be No 2. Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The middle group attaches great importance to the debate on Ida-Virumaa issues. We also handed our proposals to the Riigikogu Board earlier and we disagree with the exchange of items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U17	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that, under the compromise procedure, this second item could then be replaced by another item. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U19	Any more procedural questions? Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on this House... Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U20	Thank you. We wanted to say that the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance does not agree with Jürgen Ligi's proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U21	Honourable Riigikogu! With regard to the proposals made and their objections, I shall put the agenda for the fourth working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu to the vote in the form that it is on your tables. Please take a stand and vote. There were 68 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the agenda and 7 against, with no abstentions. The week's agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U22	After the hammer hit, the free microphone begins. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U23	Ladies and gentlemen, Sovereignty belongs to the people. It's not just a word, it's something very important. This means that the country belongs to the people and not to the king, and we should have solidarity with the people in all crises. The people of Catalonia have been fighting for their right to call themselves a nation and have autonomy for a very long time. Indeed, in 2006, the Catalonia autonomy statute was supplemented in Spain, where Catalans were also designated as a nation. The people of Catalonia were granted broader powers to decide on their own finances. Unfortunately, in 2010, the Spanish Constitutional Court declared the designation of the Catalonians as an unconstitutional nation and annulled its part of the Statute. The Spanish central government did not enter into a dialogue on how laws could be amended. Although, ironically, in 2005, when it was not yet clear what sex the king's next child was, a dialogue was immediately initiated and a consensus was quickly found that the constitution could be changed, and the firstborn child, be it a girl or a boy, could inherit the crown. Such legislation, such a political culture, does not recognise that sovereignty belongs to the people. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U24	How?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U25	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U26	Ladies and gentlemen, Oudekki Loone, if you had read the Rules of Procedure, you would know that there will be no extra time in a free microphone. Try to make it through five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U27	This shows that there is a country in the European Union that does not recognise the rights of the peoples. Moreover, if the people of Catalonia have no choice but to express their opinion simply by placing pieces of paper in a box which the Spanish central government does not even consider to be a referendum, and there are also methods of force on it, and we see how the faces of old people bleed, we might ask what rights this piece of people has. We should ask what is happening in the European Union, whether it has fulfilled its role as a guarantor of peace, or whether it has, on the contrary, become a problem without even condemning violence, ignoring the fact that there is a people who would like to express their own wishes for the future (no matter what the future is, it is not up to us to decide, it should be for the Catalans to decide). Nobody says anything. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's reasonable, I don't think it's normal. I do not consider it normal that we do not even have a discussion on the basis of which new countries can be created, about how to ensure a peaceful debate on constitutional changes. If we do not condemn violence today, does this mean that we do not do it because we would also like to use violence ourselves, so that we would also like to send people to the police in a situation where people express unpleasant thoughts? Is this the European Union we want to live in? Is that kind of power that we have solidarity with? All European countries have an authoritarian past. Is what we saw last Sunday not a revival of this authoritarianism? Just as we saw in Genoa in 2001, so we will see in Barcelona in 2017 a situation where people's desire to express their opinion is suppressed by force. This is the Europe that needs to be braked on. We should be a free Europe, we should be a Europe of nations. Let's think about it. Let us not forget that we can only show solidarity with people, only with the people. I strongly condemn the violence that took place on the streets of Barcelona and other cities, and I am very embarrassed about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U28	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with this Catalonia issue, which I also spoke about in my questioning. Namely, I was with an international parliamentary delegation on the Catalonia referendum. Our working group, if you could say so, was made up of 33 people from different countries. The group was led by former Slovenian Foreign Minister Dimitrij Rupel. I want to tell you about the emotions I experienced there. On Saturday, I went to schools with a few members of the delegation, where referendums took place. In Barcelona and in Catalonia in general, schools are primarily used as electoral sites. After people had learned that 35,000 paramilitary policemen had been brought into the territory of Catalonia, they formed so-called defence mechanisms in these schools. During several days, small night parties were held there, if you could say so. The children and parents were gathered in these schools so that the police could not occupy them, for God's sake. There were singing and dancing, movie nights, sports competitions and all that. It was a tremendously emotional picture I saw there. On the morning of 1 October, the first video clip appeared showing that the police brutally beat up peaceful people who wanted to express their desire to exercise their right to self-determination, democratic law. The first video I saw was made at one of those schools I went to last night. I saw in that picture the bloody faces of the people with whom I had spoken peacefully and friendlyly in a very tolerant and pluralistic atmosphere the other day. It was one of the worst emotions I've ever had in my life, even though I've been a war reporter and everything else I've ever seen in my life. By the way, I say in the interlude that a member of our parliamentary delegation was also hit by a rubber bullet, so not only local people but also international observers were subjected to violence. By the end of that day, I was emotionally devastated. I was watching the counting of votes in a department when the position of the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was posted online. I've never been so ashamed of myself in my life. I wanted to sink underground, I struck my eyes down, and I was very hoping that no one, for God's sake, would translate the statement of our Ministry of Foreign Affairs or any other statement that came from Estonia to the Catalans. This emotional state is difficult to describe. In the coming days, however, I have thought a lot about what these European values are. Let's remind you. European values are three pillars: the free market, the rule of law and human rights. But what happened on Sunday was the violence of a democratic state power against people who wanted to express their opinions democratically and defend their right to self-determination. This is one of the most brutal things that can happen in some of Europe's so-called rule of law. I would really like to see a debate open in Estonia about what is the right of the peoples to self-determination, the same right that Estonia's statehood is on. I would like to emphasise once again that the positions of our government are shameful. I really wouldn't want this to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U30	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U31	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I once gave class at a college, it was a political science class, but I gave students a number of examples. There came up with Malleus Maleficarum, all these witch hunts, the Inquisition, and so on. At the beginning of the class, I told them that usually when someone was considered a witch, it had to be proved that this woman was flying 95% of the witches were women, and no one doubted that she was flying. This transfer of the physical body from one place to another by flight was the formation of a crime. At the end of this same lecture, I gave them examples that, for example, concerning Assisi Francis and several other saints, including very famous individuals, such as Ignatius Loyola, dozens of people in memory have claimed that when they prayed, they took off. Well, distribution, right? I waited for someone to ask within this hour why, in one case, when a man flies, he would be sent to the stake, but in the other case, if he did the exact same thing, he would be considered a saint. The crime scene is the same. But, hell, no one asked, no one asked, even though there was no logic! I don't think there's any logic in this hall. You start with Catalonia. I'm sorry for the people of Catalonia. But I recall three years ago, something awfuler happened in Ukraine thousands of times. Then we rejoiced. Ukraine is a democratic country that wants to join Europe. We lied to Ukraine. (When I say 'we', I mean the European Union.) The Ukrainian people stood by to join Europe so that the borders would open, they could work freely across Europe, pensions would rise... We allowed Ukrainian politicians to lie to them. We were quiet. They were all quiet. As a result, a criminal like Poroshenko became president. We welcome him here in this very country, even though it is the same person who said on 1 September 2014: 'Our children are going to school today, but let their children sit in the basements, under the shells. " To a person who has allowed himself to say such a thing, I would not extend my hand. But, well, a normal democratic politician, it's okay. Ukraine has become the country where the only country in the world has experienced negative growth over the last 25 years, i.e. 0.3%. Given that most countries have seen an increase of 100%, 200% or 300%, this is something incredible. This is a country where, in the last three years, the average pension has fallen from $82 to $40. This is the country where the average salary that was once... I don't know what he was, but he's $112 right now. Who imagines living with this kind of money in the middle of Europe? This is a country where industry is not working. And this is all the result of our actions. But we haven't discussed it. There's only one reason we know: someone aggressor went after them. We are told by the NATO General that there is no attack, we are told by the Ukrainian General that nothing has been identified, no intelligence spy can prove it. However, we still live in that conviction. We have not really discussed the issue of South Ossetia with you. It seems to me that the majority in this Chamber still thinks that Russia was attacking Georgia, although the Sarkozy Committee proved that Georgia was the one who attacked Ossetia. Before we start talking about Catalonia, we are talking about Yugoslavia. Let's start with that, and then I'm willing to talk about Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U32	Olga Ivanova, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very short performance. I will continue on this subject so that there should not be double standards in place. I imagine that if such footage had come from Chechnya, what the reaction of the European Union, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and all European countries would have been. We are all democratic people, politicians who value democracy. If we see the police acting like this with peaceful people, we should at least condemn it. I think that is what the people of Spain, the people of Catalonia, expected of Estonia. Artur rightly said that it was a little embarrassing to read a press release from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which simply supported the sovereignty of Spain and the integrity of the state. Let's think about what would have happened in 1993 if the Estonian government had decided to send police to Narva, Ida-Viru County. What would it have ended? Fortunately, this was not the case, and now Estonia is the country that we have built together. So I urge you to think that neither foreign policy nor domestic policy should have double standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U34	Does Peter Ernits want to speak in a free microphone? Here you go, then!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U35	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, Catalonia must be spoken of now. But I agree with my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, that I should and should have talked about Ukraine. There are still many or many such issues. Yes, there is the right of the peoples to self-determination, which results in the existence of an Estonian state. In Africa, decades later, the same people's right of self - determination has led to the emergence of a number of countries in which black people live. We are mainly discussing Europe here: which European Union will be, either federal or unitary. But actually, the world is boiling. There are many nations in the world. There is the Unrepresented Nations, led by the Lost Linnart Mäll. I have met many of the leaders of these nations, also in Tallinn, by the way. During these days of Catalonia violence, I was not like my colleague Artur in Barcelona, but I watched it all in Estonia and I was embarrassed. In fact, it boils, and more and more talk is likely to be needed on these topics. Today it is Catalonia. Actually, there are two truths. One thing is the sovereign right of states to territorial integrity. Nobody wants some people to want independence, not to mention Europe, in Nigeria, Africa, or some other country with many nations. There are other nations in Europe than the Catalans, you know who they are. I am not a specialist in international law, but I am following these discussions and I have realised that the territorial integrity of countries is a priority in international law; the right of peoples to self-determination is like a smaller brother next to this big brother. Now that these little brothers begin to raise their heads, of course, the great brothers, or states, are concerned about their territorial integrity and send rubber bullets or to the police. By the way, specialists in international law have also said that blood really gives legitimacy to independence. There must have been some blood in Barcelona. Perhaps that is what is necessary, although I do not think that this should be a precondition for realising the right to self-determination. I repeat again what several colleagues have said here. I'm embarrassed, too. I've been thinking and thinking about Catalans, and I think every nation has the right to self-determination. Violence cannot be justified. The Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not in the best form, let us say, when publishing this message, very diplomatically. But it's boiling, and the world is changing fast. We have to be ready for this. Of course, we should also discuss more here in this Chamber - I will come back to Mr Stalnukhin's talk on the subject of Ukraine. There is also Kurdistan, by the way, where there is also violence and the people there are much bigger, 30 million. Size doesn't even matter, you might be 30 or 25 times our size, but you still don't have independence, even if you want it. I'm done with that. So I'm gonna keep my fingers crossed for the catalans. At the same time, however, I do not want to say that there should be instability in Europe. On occasions like the one in Barcelona, blood should not flow and rubber bullets should not be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U36	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U37	Thank you for the floor. I want to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to one thing. We started with Catalonia and we have come to the Estonian state, to the way we live and behave ourselves. I dare say from this remote control, the highest speaker in Estonia, that Estonia has become toothless in a quarter of a century. Our foreign policy does not exist, our internal policy is weak and lame. See how our people live, how they are informed. Just one pink cuff. In 'Actual Camera', the selected news will be read in the evening, where there is no double opinion whatsoever. This is how we train our people. We have not had any discussion in the press about the Catalans or anything else. Let us remind you, ladies and gentlemen, most of whom are here, if you will excuse yourself, the younger ones, even for many years, have seen the world how we fought for Estonia's independence in this very Chamber. I was a young journalist and I stood there with cameras, we waited for every word that was said here, we only dreamed and asked the world to support us. Arnold Rüütel drove a random rental car around the embassy in Moscow and asked for our support. And now that we've gotten a little fed up, we've forgotten our fate mates. We're coldened, we're getting boring. It seems to me that Estonia's development has stopped; nothing can be done. I call for the same Chamber of the Riigikogu here, so that perhaps we may start to think a little bit more. I am now wondering about the articles on President Kaljulaid that tell us how good the President is. Dear people, we couldn't even pick the president! What a good president he is, I have not heard anything wise from him now, but we praise him to heaven. We've had some good presidents, indeed. There was a reminder of how we chose Arnold Rüütel, how we violently chose him. All these things will come back to us. I don't want to go through the past, but look in the mirror, dear Estonian politicians! We've pulled a hump like a typical Estonian farmer who was afraid to get beat up in brine or be beaten with sticks. We've become the same. We no longer have the pride that we had in 1991, we no longer have dignity and we no longer have honesty. It has been very well said recently that Estonia is governed by three words: lies, lies and lies. That was Einar Laigna's quote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-09_U38	There's no more calls. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 15.38 p.m.
