ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 53 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Sven Mikser, Minister of Foreign Affairs are members of the government. Due to the fact that ten members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question yesterday, I give an opportunity for an additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U2	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The time is fast and the Estonian Presidency will no longer be behind the mountains in five months' time. Estonia has formulated its priorities for the Presidency of the European Union, four of which have also highlighted 15 topics of focus. In general, if we want to focus on something, then 15 focus topics seem to be a little too much. The feeling remains that we have not been able to make a specific choice, however, which are the areas and topics that we are going on with. It has also been accused to the government that there is a delay and that it cannot be agreed among itself. How do you assess this process, how it has been decided whether it has been satisfactory? So what are these focus topics, are they still 15?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu and a good questioner! Really, time is fast, I agree. But I can't accept being stalling. No, there's no stalling. I would say that there is a very busy process of preparing the Presidency. It is known that the Presidency is not something that will come to the table one day. In the European Union, what a country does as a Presidency depends very much on what the subjects of the previous Presidency and of the country that held the Presidency before it have been. So, in some respects, we are certainly following Malta's priorities. The cooperation between Estonia, Bulgaria and Austria is also extremely important in the trio that follows the Maltese Presidency. I think that these four main priorities have been very well thought out; there has been a serious debate about them. To put it very briefly, one of the main tasks of the Presidency could be to keep the European Union united and to contribute to the increase in quorum. I think these two are the most important. These four priorities are known to the public: an open and innovative Europe, a secure and protected Europe, a digital Europe with free movement of data, and an inclusive and sustainable Europe. The government has, I would say, been very active in the process of preparing the Presidency of the European Union. This is also demonstrated by the fact that in our first study session, we focused our attention on this. It is now known that the initial action programme will come to the government office in March and the final action programme will become clear, as has been the case in the past, just before the Presidency, then in June for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U5	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U6	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Estonia has been a relatively safe and good place to live, where radicalisation has not been significant, where the fight against terrorism has been successful, although our citizens have also suffered from some acts of terrorism. If we are holding the Presidency, the focus on Estonia will certainly increase, and thus the direct threats to Estonia will increase. My question is about how preparations have been made in Estonia in order to mitigate the risks that will inevitably arise if we are subject to increased attention. As Prime Minister, how will you help Estonia to remain a safe place to live?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U7	Thank you, good questioner! Unfortunately, we have not only suffered victims because of terrorist acts and organised crime, but we have to admit that the citizens of our country have died as a result. And, of course, the death of a citizen of the European Union, every person, is tragic. If you ask what the Prime Minister is doing to prevent such serious acts of terror from happening here, we will certainly look at this picture much wider. We are looking at this picture in cooperation with the European Union, we are looking at it with NATO. Very often the word pair "changed world" is used. I dare say that in this changed world, the Estonian authorities, including all members of the government, keep this topic on the table every minute of their work, not every day, but every minute of their work. What can we do to ensure that we are as well protected and prepared as possible to prevent acts of terror from happening? I think, on the one hand, it is our duty to ensure that the society we live in is as united as possible, as stable as possible. As you rightly said, we have little of these radical extremes. The second level is, as I said, our authorities who deal with this every day. And the third level, which is not insignificant, is our international cooperation. I think that the fight against terrorism is one of the priorities in each minister's international relations and meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I wish you all the strength for the forthcoming Presidency, but my question goes a little further. Following the government's stance, I ask how many priorities will be included among our priorities by Minister Ossinovski's promised common European alcohol policy, and thereby by influencing the excise policy of the Republic of Latvia. Do you think it's realistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U10	First of all, thank you! For the sake of strength, the Estonian language says no. And I wish the Riigikogu, members of the Riigikogu, certainly the management board and chairman of the Riigikogu, who will play a major role during the Presidency, and, of course, the European Union Affairs Committee! I think that the most important thing to do with this Presidency is to further develop our international relations, Estonia's good reputation. This isn't where we should fall. This is where we have to bring very serious and productive issues to the table, very well prepared. For me, another dimension of this Presidency is how, through the Presidency, we can do more explaining work for the citizens of our country, give more information, answer more questions about the importance of the European Union, the future of the European Union and its priorities. Your question relates to the position and policy of one minister in the government, Mr Ossinovski, which stands for the Estonian people to consume less alcohol, so that the people of Estonia are healthier, so that we have fewer accidents caused by alcohol, accidents. It has the full support of the entire current government coalition. This is the subject that alcohol consumption in Estonia and among our residents must decrease and the share of healthy lifestyles must increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U12	The next question is for Foreign Minister Sven Mikser. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U13	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A number of family members of shipguards imprisoned in India have addressed members of our group with very worrying letters. The reason for their concern is that they are in a very difficult financial situation. Our member, Henn Põllaas, also wrote you a letter that may not have arrived yet or, if so, you will probably not have been able to complete your position. My question concerns the same subject and is the following. In the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government, would it be conceivable to leave the loans granted to the ship's guards and the state's spending to the state to ease the financial situation of their family members and their own?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U14	Thank you very much for this question. Indeed, the government, in particular the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is doing everything in its power to ease the situation of the ship's guards, who have been detained in India, as well as, of course, the situation of their family members here in Estonia. While shipguards were at large between April 2014 and May 2014, during that first year, the employer covered their expenses related to housing and, to a certain extent, to lawyers' fees. After that, the Estonian state also granted an unguaranteed loan through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for reimbursement of accommodation expenses, medical care and travel expenses related to the trial. In this case, it must be borne in mind that the loan was both non-guaranteed and non-interest-bearing. The possible obligation to repay arises within 90 days of the ship's return to Estonia, so at the moment this particular problem should not burden the economic situation of their families. The government will certainly discuss very thoroughly how to ensure that these people themselves and their loved ones do not find themselves in an economically inescapable situation once the initial problem of returning shipguards to Estonia has been solved. And if necessary, we will take steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U15	Mart Helme, the point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U16	Thank you. Have officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs met and will continue to meet regularly with members of the family of the ship's guards to inform them and inspire them with courage and hope?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U17	Yeah, it's been met. The consul and/or our ambassador, who, of course, is domiciled in New Delhi, have visited men both in prison and when they were on bail, more than 20 times in total. During these meetings, letters have been exchanged, money, medicines, and consumer items have been delivered from close relatives. The last prison visit of the consul took place just before Christmas Eve, 23 December last year. When this chronology was repeated, the men challenged their judgment, which was announced in January last year and on which they were detained, immediately at the end of January last year. The Supreme Court then decided not to release them against bail and several preliminary hearings of the Court of Appeal were postponed. On 29 November last year, however, the last hearing of the appeal court took place and then the court went to make a decision. We don't know the time to announce. We look forward to this being done in the near future, and we are ready, no matter what the appeal court does, to take the necessary steps to get our citizens back to their homeland as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U18	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U19	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. The fact that Estonia has granted unguaranteed loans to shipguards is indeed a very commendable and grateful act. But at the same time, they continue to have quite high legal expenses in relation to this appeal, and families who have lost their feeder find it very difficult to pay these sums. In this case, could the state put it on its shoulders? When we recall, for example, what happened to cyclists in Lebanon, the state was very strongly involved, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, also a minister, in doing so very actively. Could similar support be hoped for in this case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U20	Thank you. Certain differences between these two cases must certainly be highlighted. In Lebanon, our cyclists were kidnapped by a criminal group, and the Lebanese state worked with us fully to find and free cyclists. First of all, I'm gonna come back to that guarantee loan for a second. Yes, after the men's detention last January, the loan has not been granted in addition, but the amount is indeed significant, it is over EUR 110000. As I said, with the question of how to ensure that no financial obligations beyond the control of the families and, hopefully, of the ship's guards returning to Estonia fall on their own shoulders, we will deal with when the men are back in Estonia. As far as legal expenses are concerned, these issues have been discussed at least once in depth at the meeting of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Again, right now, we do not have a request from lawyers or relatives for reimbursement of these costs. As I know, Britain's shipguards have taken initiatives and, as we know, there are private initiatives in Estonia to raise funds for their families, which can theoretically be used to compensate for legal expenses. If there is any request for support for the country, we will certainly be discussing this seriously. There is currently no such request. I wouldn't make a promise today, and I wouldn't rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U22	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good Prime Minister! I assume you are a liberal, because your party is part of the Liberal Group in the European Parliament. The conservative and social democratic ministers of your government have increasingly started to put forward various rules and demands and tightening up penalties. That worries me because I think I'm a liberal too. For me, this is a sign that, in fact, by imposing such austerity, penalties and rules, the government is signalling to people that it does not trust our citizens that it considers them to be a little responsible. How do you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U24	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much for this question. First of all, the first part of your question, who I am. I think I am a simple Estonian citizen who wants good for our country and our people. I do as much in my day-to-day work as I have the wisdom and the skills to develop this country, regardless of what I do in some space of time. Now question two. I was thinking that if you ask about liberalisation, I will talk about the ideas that the current government has: so that we can move our economic and business environment forward so that our competitiveness grows. After all, the current government has said that, for example, the appointment of boards of state companies must be made different than it has been so far. I thought that I would also tell you that, in the case of certain state enterprises, consolidation should be done; the idea of a public share is also a good one. But it wasn't on the question. Now you said that other parties are pushing their thoughts. I must say sincerely that the cooperation of the government coalition is a good and united part of the great atmosphere in the government is working, seriously working. I understand what you are asking your question about, this is whether the state of Estonia could take a more harsh view of the violations of people who, for example, drive a car in over 1.5 times a million alcohol drinks or who exceed the permissible speed of several tens of kilometres per hour. I don't think alcohol and driving work together. This question is a little related to... I'm sorry, my time is up!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U25	Maris Lauri, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U26	Thank you. I didn't get the answer to my question, but I realized that our understanding of liberality is a little different. I mean that people are responsible, can think and make decisions for themselves, and that rules and restrictions are imposed rationally, not punitively. But that's it. Let me ask you another question here. Yesterday we learned that entrepreneurs will be branded. It looks like you should all notice that there's an entrepreneur sitting in this car who's a potential tax fraud. I would remind you that the previous government quickly rejected this idea. Are you really gonna start tagging people? Any labelling may, as we know, lead to negative consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U27	Thank you for that question. We intend to start supporting businesses and strongly supporting them. As far as I understand the content of this problem, it is next. There are a large number of entrepreneurs in Estonia who are both in the status of owner and, for example, in the status of management board member or CEO. Quite often one passenger car is bought into the company, sometimes two passenger cars. And now the entrepreneur has a choice as to whether he will garage the car every day and keep a driving diary or decide that in the morning he will start from home, take the children to school or kindergarten and then go to work. Maybe she calls her husband for lunch at lunchtime and doesn't talk about work. In the evening, he leaves work, goes to the store to buy something according to the list given at home, then goes to practice and then goes home. What do I mean by that? If a person does not want to keep a driving diary, it is very reasonable to give him a chance not to keep it, he does not have to garage his car at his workplace and can also use it for his personal rides. Yeah, that means a bigger payment to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U28	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I would like to ask you to continue our Question Time last week on the subject of foreign policy. Do you have any idea whether the Liberal Group of the European Parliament, or the pan-European umbrella organisation of Liberals, or any of its branches, have formed a position on or distanced Yana Toom's visit to Syria?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U30	Thank you. No, I don't have the information that anyone has formed a position on this. I'm sticking to my position as I expressed in briefing on Monika Haukanõmme's first question. I think that the general feature or principle of the Estonian Presidency should be to keep in mind, through the priorities and issues we have raised, that Europe should be as united as possible, that Europe should have the highest possible decision-making power. Such radical approaches have no place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U32	The next question is for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The Estonian forest makes Estonia unique and society has also acknowledged it through changes to the Forest Act. As I understand it, one of the motives for increasing harvesting volumes was that spruce health is not good. Why is the condition of forests not good? Is it because we do not encourage sufficient care cutting and, by doing so, small-scale landowners, forest owners, but rather the use of large-scale industrialists, harvesters, which actually cause damage to soil fertility, at national level? Why have we not found a balance at national level between the various maintenance cuttings and are now looking for extreme methods to make the forest healthy? Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U34	Thanks! It's not as tragic as you, esteemed vigilante, describe it at all. We're not looking for any extreme methods, we're looking for reasonable methods. It makes sense to cut wood at such a age when it is still healthy and, as a result of its worth, it is possible to obtain a wide range of products, not to use it solely for heating. Therefore, as one of the amendments to the Forest Act, the idea proposed by the various parties has also been approved by the Forest Act to bring down the felling age of the good growth site types in spruce to 60 years instead of 80 years, as this will make it possible to obtain the best result in the form of wood. Now, if you ask me if this is some sort of large-scale enterprise, the answer is no. This also concerns only 4200 hectares of Estonian forests and environmental organisations say that this activity is reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U35	Hatter, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U36	Thank you. It doesn't make any sense. I understand that one compromise was that more protected areas will be formed, mainly at the expense of the state forest. How and when will you do it? When do we get to seeing clearly in the case of the state forest how the forest is well-groomed? My argument is that the forest is harvested and of high quality if we continue to maintain maintenance. The fact that we are encouraging clear cutting is, of course, also necessary from time to time, but making it large in the long term will, after all, cost our country as a whole at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U37	Thanks! If someone cares for the state forest, it is RMK, where all forest management techniques, including nature conservation, are used. Now a little clarification on what concerns this so-called compromise. This concept is based on the knowledge that we should have at least 10% of the current area for all types of forest in nature for future generations. In that case, we can transfer our forest biodiversity in the best possible way. We do not currently have such a guarantee of 10% in the case of forests in the sand and in the woods, and it has therefore been jointly found that the situation should be improved. How will this be done? This will be done first and foremost, and I expect this to remain the case in the protected areas in the state forests. If this is not enough, there are selected sites where additional protected areas can be formed. This area isn't very large from the territory. And this will be done immediately, which means above all that the Director General of the State Forest Management Centre can use his decree to ban cuttings in selected areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U38	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U39	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Last night's meeting didn't have time to ask all the questions. I ask you, what effect do you think the planned billion-dollar pulp mill will have on Estonian forest management and the Estonian economy at all. Aren't we approaching some kind of critical line of logging?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U40	Thanks! A year, the forest can be cut as much as the various development documents have been agreed or, for example, the same coalition has decided that the forest will not be cut more per year than its increase. Then we can talk about whether the increase concerns the economic forest or all the forests. This will certainly change the situation, such an investment will change the situation on the Estonian timber market and the winner should first and foremost be the owner of the forest, who will have an additional interest in the timber. And the fact that the owner of the forest makes a profit isn't the devil.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U42	The next question is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U43	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! In 2010, the Office for Police, Border Guard, Citizenship and Migration was merged. A politically overly ambitious police officer was put in charge of this apparatus. The sector's leadership and leadership from the top down have now been destroyed. It often happens that border guards are forced into police duties because the police leaders do not understand why they need to guard the border at all. They think it's much more useful if a patrol sits in the bush and measures speed. What is your assessment of such an organization? Are you in favour of joining these organizations six years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U44	Good questioner, thank you for this question. Having been your co-worker here in the Riigikogu, I know that this subject is important to you. I think the contribution you have made in your previous profession, along with your colleagues, whom you have also trained and trained, is important. Thank you very much for that. The truth is, as you said, three agencies were merged years ago. Now it is a question that you have already raised on several occasions, whether this unification has been the right one, and whether the border guard should in any way be made a separate body. Where do I start? I believe you used this shrub as an imaginary expression in your question. I believe that any control and security organisation must be directed towards openness. Based on the contacts I've had with the Police and Border Guard Board, I dare say that this office is aimed at openness. It is aimed at making every citizen in our country, as well as a guest, feel well here. We can rely here on various studies that measure trust in the Police and Border Guard Board. I know that according to the penultimate study, this confidence was 84% and the last one, 82% in October 2016. The fact that both ratings are over 80% shows great trust, which is a high indicator in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U45	The question to be specified. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U46	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Estonia is currently the only country in the European Union that has land borders with Russia, where border guards are subordinated to police. Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Finland also have a land border with Russia, but border guards are an independent organisation everywhere. All countries have realised that these organisations have completely different training tasks, ideology and mentality. In Finland, border guards are part of the border guard, but under the authority of the Ministry of the Interior. Until 2005, there was the same system as we did. Lithuania divorced the border guard police in 2000 because it understood that the two organisations were too different. What are your future plans for these organizations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U47	Thank you. First of all, I would like to mention the audit carried out by the National Audit Office in April 2016, which assessed the effectiveness and objectives of the establishment of the Police and Border Guard Board, in order to determine whether the quality of services has improved throughout the spectrum of activities of the Police and Border Guard Board. According to the audit, the public services of the Police and Border Guard Board have either remained at the same level during the period 2009-2015 or have improved their quality. The other half of your question was, what is the plan for me and the entire government with regard to the Police and Border Guard Board? The plan is to support the areas that this major and important office is working in the Estonian country on its own. What is the main concern now? On the one hand, it is clear that this is the pressure of wage increases, the pressure of the wage component. On the other hand, at the end of last year, the Police and Border Guard Board put on the table a strong topic relating to the rapid response, increasing the rapid response capacity. I am pleased that, in the discussions on the coalition agreement, we have decided that, for example, 3.9 million will be placed in a rapid response in the first year, which will help to make investments and also hire people to increase their rapid response capacity. There are also plans to increase the number of local police officers in order to ensure internal security for the Estonian people. That, too, is one of the priorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U48	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U49	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Prime Minister! The border guard, however, is not a service but a service; the border guard, for example, is not a service. The electoral platform of the Central Party stated in 2015 that we will strengthen the Estonian border guard to ensure border protection and, if necessary, to provide armed first reaction, to improve the security of the state, we will organize and strengthen the border guard and raise the salaries of border guards and restore the border guard's office. From the current answer, I realized that you do not want to say much about whether we are restoring it. The new coalition agreement does not mention anything about the restoration of the border guard office either. And wage increases are a human resources policy, not an internal security policy, although of course this is also necessary. I think it has become a rather sad pattern that the past promises, electoral promises and programmed promises of the Centre Party do not sound in any way within the new government. How do you explain this to your constituents and former allies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U50	Thank you. If you mean these former allies, the opposition that was here in the Riigikogu most of the time in 2016, and the coalition at that time, as a member and chairman of the Centre Party, I think that all these six parties are allies in standing up for Estonia. So the Centre Party will certainly not abandon the EKRE either, don't be afraid of it. We're still working together. But now, from a few points of view on your question. First of all, the restoration of the border guard office. You're right, it's not in the coalition agreement. For us, for all three partners, the internal security aspect has really been important. You're saying it won't add anything if we increase the payroll. As I said, this 3.9 million in the first year is not just a payroll. It is an increase in rapid response capacity, it is investment in this area and it is a real creation of additional jobs. If I am not too wrong with the data, I think that there will be more than 90.100 high-speed reacters across Estonia. I am absolutely convinced that we have all stood for the growth of internal security both on the outskirts of Estonia and in the middle, and the rise in rapid response capacity is exactly what the increase in internal security is very direct. We will also come back to the local police once again or to the so-called constables. They're actually the closest to our people. People working in these positions also work with our local governments every day. These are very real and visible steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U52	Responds to Environment Minister Marko Pomerants, asks Kalle Palling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U53	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister of the Environment, In recent months and weeks, more and more louder talk has been made about forestry and the new forest law. The main argument is that this has been done in silence in the cabinet and that there are not enough involved parties. I wouldn't want to agree with you knowing that the Ministry of the Environment, under your command, has done so. I'm going to give you a chance to talk here and answer. What are the plans for the new Forest Act? When will this bill reach the Riigikogu? Is there a plan to involve the various parties in the procedure of this law? It is still up to us, both in the circles of involvement of the Ministry and here in the Riigikogu, to deal with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U54	Thanks for the question! I can tell you that the Forest Act has not been prepared in the silence of the cabinet, but has been done with the involvement of the parties involved. This has been the case since 2015 at least. It has not been the case that a bill has just appeared from somewhere, but it is based on an intention to develop, which is now such a popular way of lawmaking. In March 2016, this development plan was sent to ministries and stakeholders for coordination. In May 2016, we met with environmental associations. In autumn 2016, stakeholders' amendments were re-collected and we received coordination from ministries. More specific issues have now been dealt with in the area of strict protection. My suggestion is this: if someone feels that they are not involved, it makes sense to contact the environmental associations that we have. There is also an umbrella organisation. Real life is that some people are making noises, but some people are actually looking for solutions in the working groups. This has been the case with this bill. I can reassure you that, as you know, the world champion of engagement is working among you, his name is Rainer Vakra. It shall, however, be convened by the parties concerned in the course of the proceedings. But I promise you, in the first half of this year, you will be able to discuss this bill, either by involving the parties or by yourself, how you think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U55	Kalle Palling, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U56	If Vakra doesn't come along, as vice-chairman of the Committee on the Environment, I'm definitely planning on doing this. But now for the question's clarification. In the morning, I took up today's Postimees, where there were two articles on quite serious topics concerning Estonian forestry. One created a particularly strong red lamp for me, namely a leak from the forest register. When we talk about e-state, about e-state reliability, all possible backdoors and data leakage are a very, very serious issue. What do you have to say about that? Are you planning to launch, for example, an internal investigation or an audit on this subject? If it is true that people are called against their wishes and asked whether they are willing to sell their properties, and the previous events described in Postimees in the activities of forest managers have been described, then this is a pretty harsh accusation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U57	Thank you for your question. So, what can I tell you? First of all, I don't read the Postman myself, but I'm always happy to answer the Postman's reporters, because there are people who read the paper. The Environment Agency is currently controlling what is involved in the suspicion of a possible leak of information. As of today, there is no reason to confirm this suspicion or to suspect anything of this kind. As regards the question of whether there have been any control procedures in the past, the answer is yes. The internal control of the Ministry of the Environment has carried out controls during audits and no illegal bodies have been identified. What could be a systemic solution? From 2016 the application of the forest register in a new form that allows these queries to be fixed and at least to identify the location where they come from. As we know, e-government is all about such things as the public and information. Very much of this kind of data is deliberately public. Yesterday, the Riigikogu conference hall also said that environmental data must be accessible to people. This principle has been based on it, and today nuclear science is not very special for the owner of one of the forests. My mother also owns the forest. She has a way of getting rid of these people. He's just asking them to leave his property in a few minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U58	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U59	Mr. Minister! Since the restoration of independence, there have been massive abuses in private forest business, although their forms have changed over time. My question to you is this: do you consider it necessary that the active activities of the Ministry of the Environment include the effective rejection or, at least, the pursuit of such phenomena?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U60	I'm sorry! I didn't hear the beginning of your question at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U61	A microphone for Jüri Adams, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U62	I spoke too quietly. I wanted to argue that since the start of the restoration of independence, private forest business has been involved in mass crime or at least in unethical activities. Their forms have changed over time, but not the volume of this phenomenon in the general context of the Estonian economy. Should there be an active unit in the Ministry of the Environment to counter or at least minimise such phenomena?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U63	Thanks! I completely understood the question. I dare assure you that in 25 years the situation in Estonian forestry has changed dramatically. This is confirmed by the repeated processing of amendments to the Forest Act here in the Riigikogu. There have been periods where attempts have been made to find all kinds of ways to implement control mechanisms, but today it has been realised that the owner of the forest must also be trusted. The routine working body of the Ministry of the Environment is the Environmental Inspectorate. Everything that concerns offences in our area and that falls within the competence of the Environmental Inspectorate will be dealt with by this authority. And when it comes to crimes, we're getting help from an organization that the Prime Minister here praised, namely the Police and Border Guard Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U64	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U65	The next question is for Foreign Minister Sven Mikser. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U66	Mr. Minister! As Estonians, of course, we have reason to be proud and glad that we have a restored state of independence. At the same time, we should probably all be in a sense of mourning, because at least in our lifetime, two of the closest relatives of Estonians have died out. Their language is also extinct in the sense that there are no more people who use these languages as their mother tongue. I mean Livonians and Votes. In this context, what should be the Estonian state's policy towards relatives living in the Russian Federation, who can expect the same fate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U67	Thank you for this extremely important question. Certainly, the fate of relatives and related languages is extremely important and close to our hearts to all of us. I share with you the gratitude that the Estonian people have the opportunity to live in their own country and to maintain and develop their own language and culture in accordance with our constitutional objectives. We are dealing in many ways with the support of the peoples of the people of the tribe. The Ministry of Education and Research has a tribal program. The aim of this programme is to support the preservation and development of all Uralic indigenous languages and cultures. We encourage contacts and interaction with our tribal peoples, the interaction between activists and cultural collectives in various ways, and also contribute nationally to the organisation of various events taking place both in the capitals of Finno-Ugric culture and, where possible, in Russia. We have all witnessed the Russian state taking a rather rigid, not to say a repulsive attitude towards those NGOs who receive foreign support. However, it also extends to those organisations that receive foreign support and assistance in order to maintain and develop the language and culture of minorities. For us, however, it is primarily a humanitarian objective, a human objective, because, as I believe, I am convinced that the loss of any small language and culture is an irreparable loss to the whole world.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U68	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U69	A further question is from a narrower area. I don't know if you remember when the Soviet Union began to build a new port in Tallinn and the Novo-Tallinski port was pushed from Moscow as its name. However, as a result of the long-standing social retaliation here, the now established Muuga Harbour became its name. Now Russia has built a port near our borders, which it calls Ust-Luga. The question is rather whether we should prefer Finno-Ugric name forms in this case or in analogous cases. It is Lauga-Jõesuu and therefore the port of Laugasuu. This port is exactly where the last viable village of Votian-speaking people was located.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U70	Thank you, that is certainly an extremely interesting question! When you start at the beginning, I remember the debate you described. At the time, there was really a concern in the atmosphere of Russification at the end of the Soviet era that perhaps later the place or town where the port was located would be named Novo-Tallinsk or so on. As far as the use of place names is concerned, we have moved here and there in history with the names of places located outside the borders of the Estonian state. The general principle has always been that the name form is close to the original, but luckily, we have never tried and I do not think we should attempt to impose politically on how these place names are officially used. To this end, we have the Institute of the Estonian Language and also have the seat name council and competent specialists at the head of Mr Päll, who will definitely make recommendations on this. The government will act with strength on these recommendations. I know that your penguin, Mr Herkel, too, has been working hard to ensure that Georgia, not Georgia from Soviet times, is used as the name of our close partner, our eastern partner. These debates can certainly also be held in the policy corridors, but I would trust linguists here who give competent opinions. I'd love to follow them in my speech and in my letter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Having had a lot of contact with representatives of Finno-Ugric peoples in recent years because of their work, I have heard many of them complain that the more the state of Estonia continues to develop, the better it goes, the more economically and socially, the less it will have the strength and will to dedicate itself to the Finno-Ugric peoples. Can you say that the concerns of the Finno-Ugric peoples living in the Russian Federation are justified, are there grounds for this? Do you see any signs that the attitude of the Republic of Estonia towards its Finno-Ugric friends has changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U72	Thank you. I can certainly say that our concerns and attitudes have not changed. And the will hasn't changed either. I believe that I can confirm this not only on behalf of the current government, but also on behalf of all previous governments, and perhaps you can confirm the same by the legislator. Which, unfortunately, is somewhat narrowed, is the opportunity to help the tribal peoples who live east of us to preserve and develop their language and culture. In answer to the previous question, I have already mentioned this law of foreign agents, but also, for example, the opportunities of several Finno-Ugric people to participate in tribal days and other events outside Russian territory. When it comes to last year, for example, the planned visit of the ambassador of Finland, Hungary and Estonia to the tribal peoples was either delayed or delayed. Hopefully, this year, however, we will be able to restore this tradition. But I would stress that there will certainly be nothing here behind our will, our desire or our commitment. Unfortunately, there are factors that can hinder our support and help, even outside of us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U73	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U74	Three and a half minutes to the end of Question Time. Raivo Põldaru will be able to ask and the Environment Minister Marko Pomerants will answer. Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'll ask without an introduction. From the development plan of the Ministry of the Environment, we find out such a very nice fact that 97% of our residents will get clean, nice drinking water from public water. The plan is to reach 100% in the near future and 99% by the end of this year. Now the question, which is of interest to a very large number of people, is certainly this 3%, including me: how will this happen? Maybe you can shed some light on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U76	Okay, let's use the politically advanced method of using cash, but actually, you can get it with a transfer. There are two measures. First of all, the European Structural Funds, which there are 140 million to improve water supply during this period. And the Environmental Investment Centre decided yesterday the board of this institution made such a decision that, according to the 2017 budget, our national environmental charges will be EUR 10 million for the development of the water management sector. So the 22000 people who still don't get high-quality water from the waterworks can be improved. To this end, water undertakings must submit an application and must also be self-financing. This has been the case in recent years. That's how the water situation is fixed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U77	Thank you. Raivo Põldaru has one more question to ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. And it got really busy. I think people are interested in this option that applications are still made by water companies, not, for example, by me, who live 3 to 4 kilometres from where the public water supply currently exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U79	Thanks! Indeed, as far as the common practice is concerned, these applications are still made by water companies, and in the end this change can and will be reflected in the price of water. For you, who live in some scattered area, the solution has been a regional programme that has been in use for years, according to which one third of the local government, one third of the state, and one third of your family's budget must meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U80	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Foreign Minister Sven Mikser and Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U81	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 2nd working week of the plenary session on Wednesday. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U82	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! Today, in the absence of the chairman, I have the honour to represent the Committee on Foreign Affairs here. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has already presented a bunch of drafts at the beginning of this week concerning the change in the composition of our foreign delegations. The draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of Europe' of the Riigikogu decision was rejected. It consists of simple points: instead of Mati Raidma who left Parliament, Toomas Vitsut, who has so far been an alternate member, becomes the main member of the delegation, and Urve Tiidus comes as an alternate member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U83	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U84	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party Group, I will address the inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. The inquiry focuses on administrative reform, namely the issue of the place names associated with the administrative reform. The example comes from Tartu County, where three municipalities join voluntarily: Mäksa, Haaslava and Võnnu. Most local residents want the name of the merged municipality to be the old parish centre, the old honorable name of Võnnu. However, the Accession Council decided to appoint a new municipality, Kastreb. It is not just a single place name, it is a matter of principle. If we have a very strong cultural tradition, a strong place name tradition, then who is responsible for ignoring the wishes of local people and also our historical heritage culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U85	I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. We will process them in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! There are 87 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U86	Our plenary session yesterday ended at the moment of the first reading of the 'Law amending the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which strengthens parliamentary scrutiny', initiated by the Free Party Group. Artur Talvik, rapporteur for the initiators of the draft act, answered questions from members of the Riigikogu. That's where we're going. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U87	Good manager! Good waitress! As I recall, my fellow Social Democrats asked that if there was a principle of separation of powers in Estonia, how would forced bringing into this world be appropriate? In Germany, for example, a man like Allan Kil would certainly have been brought to the committee immediately. And if he had resisted, but a quarter of the Commission would have been in favour of bringing it before the Commission, he could have been shut down for up to six months. Is Germany not the rule of law and Estonia is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U88	Thank you for your question. The question is justified, and that is why I also mentioned yesterday that in 14 European countries where committees of inquiry have been set up, there are quite strong sanctions, stronger sanctions than in Estonia. This constant oppression of the principle of separation of powers actually protects one very dangerous trend that exists in Estonia. We have a state of parliamentary democracy, but at the same time Parliament is always giving its ambitions to the executive and Parliament has become a pendant of 'executive power', and it is dangerous. If we call our country a state of parliamentary democracy, but do not make Parliament a dignified body, it is dangerous for the whole country. And the committee of inquiry is one place to show your strength.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U89	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U90	Thank you. I would say, to continue with the answer to the previous question, that the most dangerous thing is that we make Parliament the place of the prosecutor's office and the place of trial. This can't be normal. But I wanted to ask you if you really think that the law by which a judge comes to decide that a person is being brought into a 'arms-cuffed parliament' is going to be declared at all. It's already unconstitutional in the beginning. On the way forward, if the Committee of Inquiry can bring people to the Riigikogu, why make a distinction between committees of inquiry and other special committees and permanent committees? Soon we'll be able to get to the point where, when there's a loose end, we'll move on to the permanent committees. It's scary for people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U91	Thank you for your question, Good Heljo! You could read the Home and Working Procedures Act, which already clearly states that the Committee of Inquiry has different power mechanisms than the other committees. The Riigikogu has repeatedly discussed how the committee of inquiry could impose sanctions on people who do not show up or who do not submit documents. This debate has been going on for a very long time, and it has always been killed. A sanction is still in place, but it cannot be implemented. That's ridiculous. This does not show the dignity of the Riigikogu, let us say this when one thing has not been resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U93	Good manager! Good waitress! When we set up this committee, the State Attorney General and the delegation that would accompany him suggested that you do not make a committee of inquiry, maybe a committee of concern is enough. I remember how Jüri Adams must have been quite fierce and said that this is not the case, that the committee of concern is such a soft committee, but the committee of inquiry has at least some way of imposing a sanction. Now I hear ladies and gentlemen saying that this is not appropriate for the rule of law. I keep looking at Germany, and I think Germany is the rule of law. Why are there always panicking attempts to avoid sanctions and recommending that you do some sort of problem committee and davait žit družno?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U94	Thank you for your question. I have also noted before this that the same Parliament is very diligent and quickly willing to adopt stricter penalties and higher fines when it concerns the whole of society. But when it comes to politicians or the so-called political class, they act together as a united front and try to kill these proposals. The same thing that the Committee of Inquiry is not allowed to impose sanctions is an example of this. That may also be why our new political parties call old parties cartel parties. At the same time, there will be a common front, which says not to touch us politicians, but to the rest of the people we will do the whole thing. Once again, the Committee of Inquiry is dealing with parliamentary supervision, the same grey zone that disturbs people the most. This is a zone where there are yokk schemes, where there are abuses of executive power and balances on the borders of legality and which cannot be investigated by investigative bodies. It is a political statement; it is a proposal to come up with a change in the law. And in order to make these proposals, it is important that key persons come and that the Riigikogu committee of inquiry is dignified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U95	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U96	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm not a lawyer, but I have this lively fantasy. I imagine a situation where some people need to be brought into this house. There's always a lively stream of tourists in front of this house, and now someone's being forced to come in here, probably being tolerated through security gates, etc. And if that gallow gets loose on this house, all our police officers will run after him, and we poor people will be left unattended in this hall. How does this work out in practice? Can you describe it to us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U97	In practice, this is an extreme method that will probably never have to be used. I have explained several times that the use of forced money is at the top of these sanctions. This sanction can only be used if the person called has repeatedly ignored the invitation to attend or does not submit the requested documents. This means that a number of measures are so-called ahead and that, if they do not work, the committee of inquiry will only turn to the court. And he can turn there if there is still a very extreme case, and then the court will make that decision. The court can send a committee of inquiry to say that you do not have enough reason to invite this person. So don't overemphasise this coercive production, it's the most extreme, the most rear-end method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U98	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! My question is about the name. Since you're the principal's representative, I'm asking you. The same question was raised in the Commission. The Estonian language is a beautiful language, but many things are similar, but with different content, the'research committee' and'research body' are too similar words. Could this committee have another name? When we discussed this topic in the Commission, Jüri Adams, a very good expert in this field, pointed out that before World War II, the name of a similar commission in the Republic of Estonia was the forming commission. What do you think of the name of this committee, even though you're a fan of the investigating committees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U100	Interestingly, I've gotten such a title... a fan of investigative committees. But okay, let him be. I would leave the same name, because in several other countries this committee is still acting under the name of a committee of inquiry. In the United States, there is a special investment committee, etc. I wouldn't play with that name. It is clear to everyone that, when it comes to the Committee of Inquiry, it is a committee with special powers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U101	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U102	Thank you. I couldn't help but notice your relatively emotional assessment of how we're trying to prevent politicians from being disciplined. My understanding, which is actually confirmed by the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, says that it is, however, the Riigikogu, the politicians who form a committee of inquiry, and this is particularly the case for matters of public interest. Which means that the people who are brought here may be politicians, but often they are not. Executive power is largely composed of officials and, to a rather limited extent, politicians. Maybe you can specify a little bit about what you meant by that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U103	I also meant that very many Estonian officials are involved in political power or party power, and very strongly. Just as the governing bodies of state-owned enterprises are very strongly politically linked. Even if politicians are not mentioned there, the members of their own party will be named, which is a political appointment. This is something that the Committee of Inquiry often examines precisely politically sensitive issues. And there's been a lot of opposition. It has been concluded that okay, the committees of inquiry are dealing with politically sensitive issues, so we must take the power away from them. This is the 'key point', not the fact that the Commission is only called on by politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U104	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U105	Thank you. Good waitress, you quoted someone who calls other parties cartel parties and identifies himself with the people. What kind of party did you have in mind? That in itself is the definition of populism that I am a representative of the people and others are not, others are some kind of cartel. What nice party or what were the parties that said that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U106	Good colleague, I think everyone is a public representative. There are just certain behavioral models where the political elite will defend themselves. This is precisely from the comparison that laws are being passed on to the large crowd and the rules are being tightened up, but they are being left untouched by these rules. That's where the word came from, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U107	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U108	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Is this confrontation not because we have enough examples where the most important thing is a press conference and then the content comes? This feeling, as if politicians are in ring defence and therefore do not want to pass this proposal, is not sufficient in today's judicial space. Such actions must be accompanied by correct and fair decisions, regardless of whether the person is a man or a woman, a political association or a non-profit organisation or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U109	Good Urmas, I don't know if you were in the debate last night. We have made it very clear on several occasions what parliamentary supervision is and what justice is. The committee of inquiry does not understand the right, I have said this several times. The fact that the Committee of Inquiry has special attention is due to the exceptional nature of the issues that it deals with. It is worthwhile to read the reports of the committees of inquiry, which are very serious documents, and that is where the content comes out. The content of the work is in these reports. The fact that the press pays particular attention to this is perhaps not inspired by the Committee of Inquiry. So I'd like to make a difference here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U110	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U111	Thank you, Mr President. Good Arthur! Just now, you said that the Commission does not understand justice. However, the Commission can shape public opinion through some kind of statement, interviews and attitude. As far as I know, the masters under investigation in connection with the corruption scandal at the Port of Tallinn said by the mouth of their lawyers that they did not come to the committee of inquiry because they had already been convicted in advance by the Committee of Inquiry. Hence the specific question: can the committee of inquiry affect the ongoing criminal investigation or trial?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U112	Thank you for your question. When a committee of inquiry is set up, the duties of the committee of inquiry are made very clear and they come into the draft decision. So if any of the members of the Commission have spoken out in the public and said that these or others are criminals, i.e. someone who has been convicted of a personal starting point, it is certainly not possible to say that the Commission has convicted someone. We can't convict anyone. We don't understand justice, I'll say it again. But I think it is also crucial in terms of political culture that a position is taken and it is said that this or another act is not acceptable. That is why no one has to go to prison, but it has been said that in our society this or another act is not acceptable. That is also the point of these reports.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U113	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U114	Thank you. Dear colleague Artur! I know you're a good marine rescuer. But what you're saying here, I don't know if you're a politician.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U115	Is the question over? Thank you. Of course I am. Do you want a further question? Yes, I am. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U116	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U117	I'd really like to know the same thing. I asked clearly who the populist is, who calls others cartel parties and who belong to the people. What if you are? Are you members of the elite? Are you a politician or a non-politicalist and is your party a party or not? It's gonna sound a lot like that. Answer me when you said that in your report. The fact that you are a politician is certainly not the answer the questioner wanted to know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U118	Just like all other politicians, you know very well that society has placed a temple on the forehead of a politician, and that is what we are all wearing together. When I mention cartel parties, I mean one of the ways of self-defense. And if you ask me if I am critical of our so-called political class and I would like political culture to change in Estonia, then I say yes, I am!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If I'm listening to this story, I think there's a pattern inside that's familiar with history. We underestimate the power of the word, and we underestimate the strength that one or the other title adds. If a member of the Committee of Inquiry takes the floor in Estonian society and says something about someone that may not actually be adequate, then the effect may be worse than a judgment against that person is possible. Do you understand clearly the responsibility this Commission bears and the responsibility that comes with the management of this Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U120	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U121	Yes, I understand that responsibility. On this point, I strongly recommend that you, good Urmas, address a member of your own party who, in public, promised to shoot the corrupt. That was the main criticism of our committee of inquiry. It was also mentioned as one of the reasons why these basics did not come to us. This incident was specifically mentioned. I very much recommend that you speak warmly to your party partner on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U122	Ken-Marti Vaher, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U123	Thank you. Dear waitress, There are a number of legal problems with this draft, which are certainly mentioned in its review by the Commission's co-rapporteur. Probably that question was already answered yesterday, but I ask you this question: how many cases do you mean, where could the mechanisms of your proposed draft have been applied?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U124	Thank you. First of all, these mechanisms have their own sequence, they're in the so-called rising line. The first mechanism is the coercion, the coercive warning of repeated summons, and there is a forced delivery somewhere in the back. Now, if I pass through my head very quickly, it may be four cases throughout the history of the Committees of Inquiry. The imposition, as I have already emphasised here, is an extreme method which the next committees of inquiry will probably have to use very rarely. There's still a trial buffer sometimes, which may not allow it to be used. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U125	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. Ivari Padar, rapporteur for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U126	Mr. Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 10 January for one hour and 18 minutes. I don't think it's a good idea to read the whole protocol, because the protocol is long, four or five pages. I'm trying to highlight the essence of this. Mr. Jüri Adams introduced the problem we've had. The problem is that the parliamentary practice of the last few decades has been four or five times, where the Committee of Inquiry has not been invited. The sanctions that are enshrined in the law can no longer actually be imposed. The problem exists and now came out of relief in the course of the work of the Tallinn Port Research Committee. Members of the Commission were interested in the practice of other countries. Countries differ, parliaments differ, and from time to time we still see from television how colourful people have been brought to parliamentary committees of inquiry somewhere, even in the United States. Although there is some insight into the practice of other countries in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I would say that we do not have such an quite thorough analysis of what this practice is like. We can say that there are some practices that are being implemented in the Member States of the European Union, such as the 14 Member States, but we do not know in the details how this is done. Of course, there were all the issues that have been going through this round of questions and answers: how proportionate such action is at all, and are we not going to build a parallel investigative body, which is Parliament's committee of inquiry, which it has to deal with and do we not want to set up an alternative investigative body within Parliament's committee of inquiry? It is clear that the task of Parliament's committee of inquiry is, above all, to look at the political decisions and the impact of these decisions. More detailed investigative procedures must still be carried out by those institutions that are intended for this purpose. That's how life is. Members stressed that the Riigikogu's task is to make laws, not to go to the working world of research institutions. It was also discussed whether amendments to these two laws should be dealt with at all by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, that if the amendment to the Constitutional Law and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu were to be the subject of the Constitutional Committee, the amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure should be the subject of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the minutes, I read that, in the opinion of the Chairman of the Commission, Ken-Marti Vaher, these amendments may, in principle and in substance, also be under the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As a final result, it was found that the scheme currently proposed is not proportionate. I will read out the final report by the Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs: if further consideration of the subject is to be made, you can see whether it is possible to take over from some countries an appropriate, reasonable practice appropriate to Estonian law, how to ensure greater respect for Parliament's Committee of Inquiry and to appear before the Committee of Inquiry or to give statements in writing or through a lawyer. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states very clearly that yes, this issue needs to be dealt with further, to see how things can be handled politely, so that the Riigikogu does not give the impression of a burjanik or a lousy person who is forcefully dragging someone to somewhere for questioning. So that's where the decisions are. Firstly, the proposal to put the draft 313 on the agenda of the plenary session on 17 January. It was supported by consensus. Secondly, the proposal to reject draft 313 by 7 against 1, with 0 abstentions. Thirdly, to appoint a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Ivari Padar, as rapporteur, was consensual here. Now I've made my report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U127	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U128	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! Your report did not make any sense of one argument, which probably sounded then at the committee meeting, namely that there was no analysis of practice in other countries. However, the rapporteur on the same item said that there was an analysis of both the United States and many European countries. I've read the analysis myself, it's been done by our own office department that deals with these tests. I'm confused now. Don't we trust the results of our own department? If the Commission's majority dislikes the results of their work, do they say that they are not being taken seriously? How can we view all of this when there is really an analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U129	I take all this work and analysis, which has already been done, very seriously. But I, for example, do not have enough of this analysis so that I can propose a very sensible and good solution for how we can solve this problem in a civilized way. That's right. In any case, I think there is one thing if we have these different national practices in the table, but I would also like to get to the tests that could be a good model for Estonia, on the basis of all this practice. Once again, it is undoubtedly a question of Parliament's dignity. We can also talk about how many committees of inquiry we need and whether the format of the committee of inquiry is a good format at all. It's a matter of your own. In any case, I have not had a good enough idea of how we could solve this issue from the analysis we have here. But I think we need to get on with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U130	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U131	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the pre-war Republic of Estonia, the parliamentary committee of inquiry really worked under the name of the questionnaire committee. Despite the fact that investigations were carried out by the questionnaire committee on quite a number of issues, there was no possibility at the time that anyone wanted to be heard or questioned would come to this committee. That was out of the question. What's changed now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U132	What has changed is that there was a second world war, and the whole world has changed. All these patterns of behaviour and behaviour that were before World War II, and this authoritarianism, which was in the late 1930s, both in our world and in the world around us, has changed, the background is different. There are many things that we deeply consider to be antihuman. Behavior before World War II and our current perceptions of the world are different, we are discussing in depth about such issues as whether bear rearing is ethical or not, etc. These worlds are different.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U133	Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U134	Thank you! Dear waitress, I, too, will focus a little bit on this analysis. First of all, it is a matter of different national legal systems. Democratic traditions vary and vary in length. Long traditions already create a certain tradition and order. The Estonian Parliament must deal with legislation and also with parliamentary supervision. It is precisely with supervision, which was also emphasised by the originator's waitress. In fact, the question is that if the Committee of Inquiry starts to carry out more or less parallel operations with investigative bodies, the so-called real investigative bodies, it will be quite identical. Do we have an analysis of what actual results have been achieved by the existing committees of inquiry? I understand that this committee can quite easily become a political weapon that has little to do with the actual outcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U135	As I recall, I think we've had four committees of inquiry so far. Undoubtedly, these have all been political weapons, there is no question. Just as we are all politicians here, these committees of inquiry are political weapons. We don't want to be confused here. At different times, they have also been such a "public mala" to bring out one or another topic. But that is politics, that is, and that question remains. I myself thought yesterday that it would be quite interesting to review the materials of previous committees of inquiry, to examine what further knowledge has been gained as a result of the work of the committees of inquiry, compared to what the formal investigation has revealed. It is quite possible that there are things that have been further learned. It is quite clear that Parliament's interest is, after all, what has been the political process for one decision or another. We are representatives of the people and it is clear that we want to stand out in many areas. Let's say, if there's a swine plague, then definitely half the members of the Riigikogu are smarter than the veterinarians. That's how life is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U136	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U137	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I don't understand your anger very well. The proposals are being put forward in order to propose new solutions. Has the Commission set up an appropriate team to develop alternative solutions suitable for Estonia? And if it hasn't been formed, why isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U138	I'm so sorry if I've been angry. I guess it's not gonna come out of the inside for long. But as I said, no one has claimed that there is no problem. Everyone understands that the problem is the dignity of the Riigikogu. And there is a Commission such as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has also stated in its minutes that it wants to move forward and find a sensible solution. In this case, as you can see, this solution, which you have proposed, has encouraged us to think. Thank you very much for bringing this up. But you have not provided enough civilized solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U139	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U140	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, From your last talk, I almost got the answer to my question. I think you are stating that there is still a need for committees of inquiry and that they also need to be guaranteed the opportunity to work. Because if people don't show up, there's nothing the Commission can do to investigate if it keeps going, so people won't show up. But I almost got an answer. My question is this: do you agree that there are obviously committees of inquiry to deal with the problems that have arisen in society, and that there is still a need for and solutions to be found as to how they can work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U141	I fully agree that if there is a need for committees of inquiry, it must also be ensured that they can work. There's no question at all. But in this case, I also do not see us amending the law in such a way as to make it impossible for us to carry out a committee of inquiry. Over time, there are still problems where committees of inquiry are needed. And it is undeniable that a sensible application must also be considered how the people that the Committee of Inquiry needs to question can be brought before the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U142	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U143	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! The question is short: what are we afraid of when dealing with this bill? Do we not trust ourselves, that is, Parliament? Dignity should not be lost if we do not help it ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U144	There's nothing to be afraid of. Like I said, there's a problem. It is just that the solution you have proposed does not fit into our legal space; it is not acceptable to a large part of the Riigikogu members in substance. The Riigikogu is primarily a place of law making, the Riigikogu cannot be a research body and the Riigikogu committees are not administrative bodies that can make injunctions and fines. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U145	Thank you. There are no further questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I'm opening negotiations. Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U146	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The discussion here has provided convincing evidence that this problem is not some kind of theoretical, non-life, pen-absorbed thing, but is confirmed by facts and quite long experience. I personally have the experience that I gained during the VIII Riigikogu as a member of the so-called SIA Research Committee, I think it was 1996-1997. It was evidently the first time a very reliefal phenomenon emerged, which is the basis for the current discussion. For certain reasons, certain people refused to come to this committee and answer questions. In order to justify their failure to appear, they employed professional lawyers to justify such conduct. There have been experiences like this since then. So here's the luggage. This is not just a question of this last committee investigating corruption related to the Port of Tallinn; there is a long- and long series of things behind it. We now have a first reading of this draft. Let me remind you that the content of the first reading is to get an answer to two questions. First of all, is there any need for such a legislative amendment? I think the discussion that has taken place here shows quite clearly that, yes, there is a need to improve the law. Secondly, is the proposed draft suitable as the basis for such a legislative amendment? Several parts of the draft have been seriously criticised, and I myself am quite critical of some of the elements, for reasons which I will call very soon, but I cannot say that this draft could not serve as a basis for further work. Whatever the drawbacks of this draft, including what should still be in it, but what is missing at present, they will all be repairable during the next stages of the procedure. A completely new and unprecedented situation has emerged during the procedure for this draft. The three political groups of the government coalition, together with the opposition's largest, Reform Party, have made a political decision that it is not in their interest to stop reading the first draft. What's the particular reason, I don't know. I do not know who the decision-makers are either, but I very much hope that, in the light of this discussion, the members of these groups will reconsider. There will be no significant change in the problem of voting off the draft procedure. Whether the government coalition will take on the task of presenting a draft of the same content, but in its opinion, better or at least better authors, or the opposition will put forward a new draft, but today's vote will not end. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U147	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U148	In the current discussion, the most outstanding problem for me is the obvious omission. I used to wonder if we needed any more lawyers living in our Internet age. After all, it is enough that all the legislative provisions and their explanations are available on the Internet; everyone can google and find an accurate position. But then I came to the conclusion that I still do. Because one of the reasons that requires lawyers to be human is that many homonyms are used in law texts. This means that the same term has different meanings in different laws. We have a lot of examples here that not only the non-legal members of the Riigikogu but also the members of the Riigikogu who claim to be very proudly lawyers and have a diploma are unable to understand that if there is an investigation of the prosecutor's office or an investigation of the court and there is also an investigation of the Riigikogu's investigative committee, the word'research' in these expressions has a completely different and exclusive meaning. One cannot be transferred to another. I think we've got a lot of unacceptable mix-ups here. I've already mentioned the investigation. This really came into the Estonian legal language through the current term "investigation" used in the dominant American culture. But if, for example, the expression 'invitation before the Commission' was used here, it is undoubtedly something other than summoning, for example, before an investigative body or before a court. When it comes to questioning in committee, the intelligent person realizes that this is not an interrogation at the prosecutor's office or in court. Such confusion does not demonstrate sufficient professionalism. No rule of law can compel a person to give statements or explanations that could testify against him in a possible future trial. The last point I want to say is what is the point of such committees' work. The main content of the work of the committees is the collection of reliable facts. Only after reliable facts have been gathered can it be decided whether to appeal to the prosecutor's office or to the court or whether to initiate legislative changes, etc. So it's more of a tool that we're losing ourselves now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U149	Peter Ernits, please, on behalf of the Group of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U150	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I came across what the draft dealt with in the Commission. It was, to put it mildly, relatively humiliating when a member of the then power party, suspected of corruption in Tallinn Harbour, said that he would not come. In fact, the Chairman of the Council also set out his terms and conditions in which he will come and how he will be. According to the theory of conspiracy, one might say that a member of the then Prime Minister's party in the committee of inquiry really promised to shoot the corrupt. Maybe it was a collusion that they said they weren't gonna show up on. It's a conspiracy issue, and it's not my thing. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, you can really expect a penalty of up to 1200 euros. According to the bill, there would be a penalty of 8,000, and then there would be a coercion under the Code of Criminal Procedure. I stress that all of this is not done lightly. Point one: Forcedly, only key witnesses can be brought before the Commission. They must have ignored the invitation at least three times, and the restriction on forced entry is not 48 hours, which is otherwise valid, but only eight hours. The previous government gave up its opinion and also said, I quote, it strengthens parliamentary control. To be honest, it is rather strange that the government does not support the strengthening of parliamentary control. The Coalition, including the Centre Party Group, considers the draft to be too harsh and should therefore be rejected. I wouldn't be so resolute. The positions are very simple. Parliament is not a rubber stamp and must impose itself much more forcefully than it has been. It is true that we should work seriously on the bill. What am I relying on? I rely on the way colleagues have acted. In most countries, I am not talking about any dictatorships here, people have to take the possibility of imposing sanctions into account. In the European Union, there are only three countries, Finland, Denmark and Hungary, where they do not exist. Some examples. In Austria and the Netherlands, the court imposes a fine. In the Netherlands, a 30-day detention should also be taken into account. In Portugal, failure to appear before the Committee of Inquiry is a criminal offence. In Italy and Luxembourg, the parliamentary committee of inquiry has the same power as the court. When a committee of inquiry turns to the police, the police bring a witness to the committee. In Greece, Parliament's Committee of Inquiry has the same rights as the prosecutor's office in dealing with misdemeanours, and I stress that. In France, the troublemaker could be sent to prison for up to two years, even in Luxembourg for up to three years. In France, a fine of up to EUR 7500 awaits a failure, and in Germany a fine of EUR 10 000 is expected. In the United States, there would be no such thing as in the case of the Port of Tallinn. There would be three options: a fine of $1,000, a year behind bars, or a federal district court ordering a senate to execute an order, on the basis of a request from the Senate, and if he still refuses, the court will be able to judge him because of a violation of the court. And there's another way. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U151	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U152	That's it. But most importantly, pay attention now! In Germany, from which our legislators have learned a great deal, in fact, even everything, Allan Kili could have expected a coercion. However, if someone refuses to testify, a quarter of the Commission can appeal to the Federal Court and the person refusing will be arrested for up to six months. And now, when it comes to the fact that we have the rule of law and Germany should have the same thing, both of them have a point in the Constitution that justice is understood only by a court. In both countries, the citizens' right to freedom is also an elementary thing. But the Germans, by the way, have a law of inquiry. And just because our councillors or ourselves have not read it doesn't mean we shouldn't have to consider it. There's 36 sections. Consequently, Germany is still a democratic rule of law. Estonia has largely taken the example of Germany in its law, and now we are saying that it is not fit for anything! In Germany, however, there are 36 paragraphs of the Inquiry Committees Act and all the sanctions I have mentioned are perfectly effective there. So actually, you could look around a little bit, explore and read and then think. I think it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U153	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U154	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday afternoon, I listened to a good colleague from the Free Party defending this bill. The decision to speak arose at the moment when I heard the rapporteur's statement that the coercion of the committee of parliamentary inquiry would increase the dignity of the Riigikogu. As a good colleague said: if the public interest is so high, the persons involved must be ordered before the Commission if necessary. In addition to the important aspect of dignity, it is said to eliminate the fact that the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp. My understanding of the dignity of the organisation and of the constitutional tasks of the Riigikogu are quite different. Enforcement is primarily a matter of criminal law and is, in particular, used to ensure criminal proceedings. Both Article 5 (1) of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 20 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia lay down the right to personal liberty and integrity. Forced entry is an intense violation of the fundamental right. Our Supreme Court has expressed the view that the restriction of the fundamental rights of a particular person cannot be justified solely by the existence of a public interest, but must be based on very specific legal and factual grounds, and the principle of proportionality must also apply to the exercise of legal and factual grounds. Once again, coercion is an intense violation of the fundamental right. According to the Constitution, the Riigikogu has legislative power. Parliamentary supervision, highlighted on several occasions in the rapporteur's report, as well as in the answers to questions submitted to him, means the competence of the Riigikogu to exercise control over the executive power. This does not mean the right to take over the competences of another institution, neither the courts, nor the police, nor the prosecutor's office. The investigation is primarily the jurisdiction of the police and of the prosecutor's office, and only the court has jurisdiction. The Court shall be independent in its activities in accordance with the Constitution and shall administer the law in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The functions of all of these, the limits of competence, as well as the obligations and rights of the affected persons during the process and following the process are precisely defined by law. The work of the committee of inquiry mentioned in the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu is currently governed by two sections. It is therefore largely left to the Members of the Commission who take their views into account. What this provision says, however, is that the Riigikogu may set up a committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances of an event of public interest, stressing an event of public interest. The public has been interested in quite a number of topics of varying weight in recent years. However, are these issues all such as to give a very narrowly regulated committee the right to bring people of interest, handcuffs, to Toompea? Recent developments have shown that events which are also being investigated in parallel by law enforcement authorities are frequently being investigated. In such a case, it can no longer be assumed that a person should waive his or her rights of defence before a committee, including the right not to give himself or herself incriminating statements. There have also been problems with relations between the commission of inquiry and the presumption of innocence. Some members of the Commission have given interviews to the media in advance or in the course of an investigation that clearly contains some of the parties' accusations of guilt. In the case of such a reference for a preliminary ruling, there is indeed a question as to what the meaning of the appearance of that person is. In the case of Kiili and Kaljuranna, the protector of Kiili via the media has said that he did not consider the appearance of the invited person before the Committee of Inquiry and the giving of statements to be justified, because it also creates a bit of a formal and artificial impression of the Commission's work when the public states forward estimates, i.e. attitudes are already formed in advance. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U155	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U156	Ultimately, the issue of how to ensure the effectiveness of Parliament's committees of inquiry is certainly worth discussing. However, the solutions proposed in the draft act are primarily about resolving the matter from a position of strength. In addition, the desire to take on the powers and tasks of the committee of inquiry which the legislator has not actually provided for it. It would probably be appropriate to look at the subject in a much wider way, specifying more precisely the objectives of the work of the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry, in a way that avoids duplication of work between other institutions, as well as to specify the competences and powers of the committee and certainly also the rights of the persons involved. But bringing people of interest, handcuffed, Toompea does not add dignity to the Riigikogu. It does not promote the principles of an open society or a parliamentary policy based on personal freedom, caring and tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U157	Henn Põllaas on behalf of and on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U158	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike my colleague, Mr Oviir, who had the idea of taking the floor yesterday in committee, I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and my point came in quite a bit today, listening here to the presentations and speeches. The Riigikogu is the highest power, the nation's most directly authorised institution in the country. It is therefore quite natural that if we have situations or cases where corruption or security issues have arisen, etc., the Riigikogu will set up a special study group for this purpose. That is our legal right, and I would say that it is also our duty to the people and to the public. Today we are not discussing this issue, the issue of extending the powers of the Committee of Inquiry for the first time. The urgent need has created such discussions in the past. It is precisely the question of how to get witnesses before the committee of inquiry. The current law obliges them to come, but since there is no clarification or appointment of an extra-judicial judge, it is absolutely impossible to oblige anyone, to force them to testify or to come before the Commission. This is a completely abnormal situation. The VEB Foundation's committee of inquiry ran into exactly the same problem. Now put some weight on it, which is more important. Is it more important that no one in his act of arrogation is willing to take into account the desire and will of the Riigikogu's committee of inquiry, the Riigikogu and, more generally, the people to testify on a matter, or something else? Of course, the public interest is outweighed by all these alleged or possible reasons for not coming. Yes, we can, like a previous speaker, ridicule the public's interest in what it is that it may consist of anything. The Riigikogu is not a ridiculous body for the Riigikogu to set up committees of inquiry on ridiculous matters. Yeah, it's okay if the committee of inquiry is really gonna bring people, handcuffs, as witnesses. No, I'm not. I'm sorry. Where do these arguments and arguments come from, anyway? There has been nothing to talk about giving the Commission such a great deal of competence that goes beyond the powers of the Commission. We are talking about the Commission being able to work normally so that it can normally listen to people, receive objective and correct information. That's all that matters. When it comes to democracy, it is our duty to stand up for democracy so that all kinds of corruption cases, cases of the VEB Fund, etc. of the Port of Tallinn are impossible. The reason I came to this remote control is because I took it for granted that members of the Riigikogu wish to carry out the tasks assigned to them in the best way possible. They want the truth to come to light and not to be hindered by any of the reasons they seek. To my great surprise, I heard here today that there are very many people who do not support it, who still want the processes to go undercover, hidden, behind someone, without the truth coming out. You just can't accept that. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this bill. Conservative People's Party supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U159	Ken-Marti Vaher as representative of the IRL, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U160	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! A few comments to this debate. In general, there is no common model for committees of inquiry in Europe. Just as there are probably many practices and practices in very many areas, there is also a difference between parliamentary research, which must identify different aspects of matters of interest to the public. The Nordic approach is generally the same, different in the Southern European countries, while in the Central European countries it is still the same. The general line drawn out is that certain sanctions are foreseen. In particular, these are financial penalties for persons who do not have valid reasons not to come forward with evidence to determine the facts. It has to be said that § 23 of the Riigikogu Act also provides for such a sanction. This is an issue in itself, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also discussed quite often, most recently in 2015 and only recently in connection with this draft. It has been discussed how to implement all this. I rather agree with those who claim that the name of Parliament's committee of inquiry itself is misleading. Yes, it is semantically misleading, because the study in Estonian refers to the activities by which Parliament examines the facts and actually gives political and ethical assessments, and in the minds and languages of the people the study is also the main content of the activities of the investigative bodies. Thus, the name of the committee of inquiry itself already contains a certain contradiction. I think that this may also lead to misunderstandings both in what the committees of inquiry have done in Parliament at all or in the future, and in what way this action differs from the work of the prosecutor's office and the investigators. It must be said that the solutions proposed in the draft under discussion are legally unfeasible and not suitable for today's legal space. There are problems with the compulsory introduction, even already, which is clearly a criminal law institute. After all, there is a very clear difference between what the explanatory memorandum highlights: the committee of inquiry makes political and ethical assessments, but factual truth within the meaning of criminal proceedings is identified by the prosecutor's office and investigators and assessed by the court. Unfortunately, the imposition of forced money, which has also been analysed on several occasions by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is also unworkable in this form. It is not possible to set the penalty payment as proposed in the draft, and this certainly raises questions about the content of this draft. Paragraph 23 of the Law on Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs states, when dealing with the competence of Parliament's Committee of Inquiry, that a sanction may be imposed if the committee of Inquiry is not issued without good reason or the information or documents are not provided. The problem now is that such a sanction has never been imposed. This is certainly one area where the Committee on Constitutional Affairs must come back and discuss whether it is justified to amend the Rules of Procedure so that this sanction is also applicable. As the co-rapporteur from the Commission has already read out, my conclusion is that we should look more closely at possible examples that we could apply in Estonian law competently in order to increase the authority of the committee of inquiry. However, it is clear that cases such as those mentioned by the rapporteur, such as the four, cannot be ruled out in the future, i.e. if people really have a valid reason, they will not appear before the Commission even if some kind of sanction is imposed which is much better applicable than that provided for in § 23. In summary, it has to be said that it is not legally applicable to the detriment of the draft, it is not conceivable. There are many contradictions. However, this issue will certainly remain on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in order to find a reasonable example and answers to questions concerning the work of the Committee on Inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U161	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 313 at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. I am voting on the commission's proposal to reject the law amending the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Riigikogu, which strengthens parliamentary control, draft 313 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 54 MPs were in favour of the proposal, against 13. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported, and Bill 313 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U162	The next item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaasa, Andres Metsoja, Tanel Talve and Kristjan Kõljala and related amendments to other laws. Do the political groups want to negotiate? Artur Talvik of the Estonian Free Party uses this opportunity. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U163	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, which now comes to third reading, is, unlike the previous bill, one very positive example of how the Riigikogu is able to cooperate when it is seen that things prepared in the Ministry are rotten in something. I would remind you that all this started when the Special Committee on State Budget Control of the Riigikogu raised the question of why broadband, which was supposed to bring a high-speed Internet to all Estonian homes, does not go on from cell towers and how to plan it so that broadband can reach every home. On this question, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, led by Kristen Michal at the time, began to brazenly and arrogantly at the members of the Riigikogu, saying that what you are thinking here in the first place and what, that we have a plan, we are doing this plan and don't bother at all, because we know how to do things. At second reading, when Kristen Michal spoke here, I was very surprised that at one time his mind had changed and he said it was a nice bill. However, he added that he was still defending this position, that broadband had to spread to around mobile towers, and that the fast internet could then spread from there. In short, I would very much like to thank the colleagues who initiated this bill and to point out very positively that it is possible to work together between the opposition and the coalition, or the great waterfall, that it is possible to eliminate and jointly find the best solutions for the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U164	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank everyone too. It's such a great day to thank you. You don't do that too often. I am also delighted, as my good colleague, Artur, has just mentioned here, that this is indeed an example of how it can be done on a cross-party basis, to put our backs together for one noble thing, and to do it. I very much hope that this legislative amendment that we are making today will really make it more favourable, ultimately more likely, to bring broadband internet cable to homes and businesses. But I'll thank you by name. First of all, I would like to thank my good colleagues Andres Metsoja and Erki Savisaar and the Special Committee on State Budget Control, Ly Oper, who really worked very hard to prepare and prepare this draft. I would also like to thank Olav Harjo, who, as an expert, has helped us a great deal and has repeatedly come here to explain things. Finally, I too cannot overcome or overcome the fact that the greatest thanks go to the former Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Kristen Michal, who authorised us, the simple Members of Parliament, to develop this draft on their own. I thank Kristen for his trust! But I would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill is only one part of the larger goal: to increase the availability of high-speed internet in Estonia. Even in comparison with other members of the European Union, we have so far had this at a regrettablely low level. I am deeply convinced that a strong contribution to both the increase in people's awareness and the development of our e-state in general will give us a vital competitive advantage throughout the world. I would even say that this could be a matter of survival as our country and nation, believe it or not. I would like to thank everyone in Estonia who has succeeded so far on this subject, and I hope that we will now put you and you in the next move and make progress! Thanks, everybody!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U166	On behalf of Andres Metsoja Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U167	President-in-Office of the Council. For the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, broadband has been an important issue for a long time. Indeed, the start has been made with the basic broadband network. Not to mention that this network has been plowed or plowed across Estonia and therefore the mobile internet has certainly reached a much better qualitative level in Estonia than in the past. But now, with this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing this by putting the Internet on an electrical pole, if you say it in a simplified language. Indeed, this legislative base provides an opportunity to bring the broadband network to all residential buildings in a much more favourable way, as world practice has shown. I, too, thank this entire team, which includes women! It's been a very good practice. The Chancellor of Justice has said that the Riigikogu must not be afraid of legislation and should initiate drafts itself. It has been quite difficult to initiate this draft because there have been contradictions with the Ministry, and not only with one ministry, but there have been many meetings. It has been a fear that if we now co-decide something in this Riigikogu, then, for God's sake, who will finally implement it. I think, indeed, paraphrasing film classics that this is not the end, it is the beginning. This is where it all starts. I am very pleased that the new coalition has agreed, as a funding channel, a very clear measure that EUR 10 million of our money, all taxpayers' money, will go to the development of the broadband network each year. Indeed, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications must answer further questions very clearly: how to integrate this money, how to find interested people and how to grow this money in turn? I want strength and strength from this Riigikogu hall to all local governments, as well as to the business sector, certainly also patience, because it does not come easily, but the prerequisites have been created. That's why we're here. Thank you for thinking along and betting on everyone! Good luck with the new initiatives!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U168	Erki Savisaar receives the floor on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U169	I had no intention of coming here at all, but since everyone is talking about this as a very good bill, which I absolutely have to agree with, I also decided to say a few words. As I repeat a little bit of the previous speaker, this is really not the end, but it is the beginning. I believe that the drafts on both broadband and the internet will reach this hall. As for this specific draft, which should bring the price down, I will throw the ball to the field of the ministry, who could come up with a new analysis of how much networking could cost, given the new circumstances, as well as to the field of all municipalities and communities, to review their plans again and to think about how best to make the Internet available in their municipality or village. While this bill was being processed, I was in opposition, but it really has to be said that the Ministry contributed to this draft. This is one very positive example of how the Riigikogu and the executive power could cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U170	On behalf of the Urmas Kruuse Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U171	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As a member of the new Riigikogu, we really need to be happy when people agree here. It shows that we are all a nation of the earth and are concerned that life on earth will continue. If this broadband is actually and essentially going to work, then there is certainly one instrument for the continuation of rural life. At the same time, I dare to hope and think that everything that follows will certainly remain within the limits of rationality and common sense, I mean creating possible costs. This means that different options must always be considered before making one or the other investment. None of us can say, like the money we have to achieve these goals, is enough, but this message is quite general. In fact, the fact is that although some people in this Chamber have made quite a lot of criticisms about e-elections, this sign shows that the e-state is extremely important to us as an image, in essence and also as a perspective. Thanks, everybody! The Reform Party will definitely support this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U172	Henn Põllaas, representative of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U173	Ladies and gentlemen, Like the previous speakers, of course, I must be pleased that this bill will probably now reach the end of the victory and that action will also be taken to ensure that broadband and fast internet reach our people's homes. But if you recall this process, it turns out that it's not really so nice and flowery. We remember that the debate on the broadband internet has been an important national issue in this very Chamber; we have had numerous meetings with representatives of the Ministry and communication companies. Let us remember that, at first, the Ministry tried to make it clear to us that no one wants this broadband internet, that we use the money from Europe, we dig it into the ground, and then big foreign telecoms companies can probably shoot this last mile through their masts and wallets. However, it was not this question that everyone today recognises it, as if the people did not want it. The question was that it was not wanted at the price these people should have paid. All these ditch digs and other work, taking the Internet to houses and villages, this last mile, let us be honest, most of our people are still out of hand. But today we're really in a situation like this, we're gonna get over the last stumbling block. The transport of broadband wires to people, to final consumers, thanks to this bill, is much faster, easier and cheaper. We need not be ashamed that we are lagging behind Europe in development, but that we have the opportunity to become a forerunner again. I would like to thank all the members of the Riigikogu who have given their support, the Ministry, who nevertheless changed their mind, and all the others who have contributed to the creation of this bill. An American astronaut once said when he stepped on the moon that it was a big step for mankind, but a small step for one person. We have it exactly the same: there is a small step for us, a small move to press this green button, but it is a big step for the people of Estonia and also for our country. I thank you all for this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U174	No more requests for speech, I will close the negotiations that have been conducted in a collegiate and constructive manner, for which I would like to thank you. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 270. It's in a minute. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law 270 on amendments to the Electricity Market Act initiated by members of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Andres Ammas, Henn Põljaasa, Andres Metsoja, Tanel Talve and Kristjan Kõljala. Please take a stand and vote. 76 parliamentarians voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Electricity Market Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U175	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 323 on Amendment to the Identity Documents Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U176	Mr President! Dear Riigikogu! I present to you the draft law amending the Law on Identity Documents initiated by the Government of the Republic 323. This is a very technical legislative amendment. According to the draft law, the Identity Documents Act establishes a regulation on the suspension and revocation of certificates entered in identity documents. So far, it was established in the Digital Signature Act, which has now expired. Since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, by Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic identification and trust services for e-transactions in the internal market, repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, has developed a law on electronic identification and trust services for e-transactions, which, inter alia, repealed the previously mentioned Digital Signature Act, it is necessary to introduce this regulation in the Identity Documents Act. This means that the regulation on suspension and revocation of certificates is included in the Identity Documents Act. According to the draft law, the legal framework for suspension or revocation of certificates provided for in the Act is similar to that applied in Estonia so far and no substantive changes are made. Nor does the current principles of issuing identity documents change. Documents issued under the Identity Documents Act will remain valid for Estonian e-services in the same way. The purpose of the draft is to bring national law into line with the need arising from EU law by means of amendments and additions. Its implementation will not lead to major changes in the use of electronic identity and trust services within Estonia. In addition, pursuant to this European Union Regulation, Member States' authorities will have to mutually recognise electronic identity already in the next year, 2018. In so doing, Member States may already recognise the electronic identity of another Member State in the past. My request is that the Riigikogu support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U177	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Minister. Ken-Marti Vaher, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will receive the floor for the presentation of the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U178	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday, 9 January. Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, and Mr Siiri Leskov, Adviser to the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior, also participated in the discussion. We were briefed on the subject and had quite a few questions about this draft. Very briefly, the draft is needed in order to bring the identity document law into line with the latest amendments to European Union law. If, so far, the regulation on the revocation of certificates entered in digital identity documents was laid down in one law, namely the Digital Signature Act, which is now invalid, then this regulation should now be introduced in the Identity Documents Act. One question in the Commission concerned the data set in the explanatory memorandum, according to which more than one million valid documents have been issued as identity cards and 14000 digital identity cards. The difference between digital identity card and ID card was asked. We were told that digital identity card is an "additional" document for the ID card. As you can see from the statistics, the Estonian people have used relatively little of this possibility. The figures say very simply that if the identity cards of an Estonian citizen are around 1060000, digital identity cards have been taken out only around 14300, which is quite a small number. However, this possibility exists in Estonia and it is good to use it for those who also need a digital identity card because of their work. There was a question about why there is a slight difference in the explanatory memorandum. Namely, the number of documents valid as digital identity card is 14396, while the number of persons holding a document is slightly different from that of two. We received a reply from the Home Office that a couple of professionals in their field have taken out On the question of how much personal identification documents were requested by post, it was answered that there were statistics according to which in 2015 11656 files were requested by post and somewhat more in 2016, almost 13,000 in 2016. The last two questions that I consider it necessary to mention here concern, in particular, what has been expected to date with the procedure for the draft and whether there is an urgent need to amend the law now. The Home Office's answer was simple and clear. The bill needs to be dealt with urgently, as the Digital Signature Act is invalid and there are currently no provisions under which the Police and Border Guard Board can only withdraw certificates entered on a digital identity document. Finally, it was also a question of a time frame. Today, the Government of the Republic has this draft before Parliament, in particular because a specific regulation concerning Regulation 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council was accompanied by implementing acts. This regulation has only just been adopted. In the past, these implementing acts had not been developed as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications prepared a draft law on eID and trust services for e-transactions. It is therefore a good time to be before Parliament with this draft and to try to deal with it as soon as possible. The following procedural decisions were taken by the Commission: it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 days, i.e. the deadline of 1 February at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U179	Peter Ernits will ask the waitress a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U180	The question is specific, but still interesting. The explanatory memorandum states that the total number of digital documents is 14396, while the number of persons who have them is two fewer than 14394. In the Commission, I asked the interesting question, who are the two people who have several of them. I got the answer, they're supposed to be family doctors. But when I talk to my colleagues later, I have heard that many of them also have several documents. Are the figures presented by the Ministry of the Interior even adequate if there are already more than several such people in this Chamber than there are, according to the explanatory memorandum, even those who have several documents?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U181	Thank you for your question. There was a debate on this in the Commission, and I also mentioned the subject mentioned in my presentation. We have received a reply from the Ministry of the Interior that there really are two fewer digital documents than those issued. These are supposedly medical personnel. If you're asking if these statistics are correct, and you can already name people sitting in this room who have more than one digital identity card, then we need to make an inquiry to the Home Office and ask for it. The statistics in the explanatory memorandum show a marginal difference. These are persons working in the medical field who work in different places, i.e. they have a number of practices, which is why they have completely legally taken out a number of digital IDs because of their work organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U182	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U183	Let's keep going. I've been talking to a lot of people, but they don't sit in this hall. One of them does, but it's not sitting right now. This is a good colleague of Aadu Black. He said he had several too. Consequently, this difference is at least three: two family doctors and one professor. But outside the hall, I know at least four of these people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U184	Thank you! That's a good turnout. During the procedure, between the first and second readings, we ask whether this statistics are correct or whether the difference between the number of valid documents and the number of persons holding the document may be greater.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U185	Dear waitress, there are no further questions. Do the groups want to negotiate? I'll close the negotiations without opening them. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 323. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 323 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U186	Today's fourth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the Electronic Communications Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech, Sven Sester, Minister of Finance!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I give an overview of the draft law amending the Tax Administration Act and the Electronic Communications Act, which bears the number 320. The amendments to the Tax Administration Act combine the need to update the 15-year-old text of the Act in order to avoid future disputes between the taxpayer and the tax authorities. The most important changes to the tax payer are certainly the deferral of the tax debt and the inheritance. When the payment of the tax debt is deferred, the bill gives the tax authority the right to approve the request for deferral even before the debt is incurred. In order to reduce the possibility of abuse of the deferral, the draft provides the tax authority with the right to revoke the deferral or also the interest reduction if the taxable person fails to submit the following declarations and thus fails to comply with the current tax obligations. In order to facilitate the enforcement of inheritance-related tax obligations, the draft gives the tax authority the right to give the heir, the executor of the will and the administrator of the succession access to the tax information relating to the estate. The draft specifies that the tax liability relating to the estate is to be declared in the context of the tax accounts of the deceased and not immediately by the heir. It is important for businesses to have the most transparent competitive environment possible. In order to ensure this, the draft will further broaden the range of data published by the tax authorities online. Currently, the amount of taxes paid by companies and the amount of separate taxes on labour are published. Tax behaviour is even more reflected in the inclusion of the amount of VAT paid and the number of employees in the published data. These data will also be published quarterly according to the draft. It is important for the tax administration to avoid unnecessary disputes over the interpretation of the law. In the light of the constant tightening of data protection rules, it is therefore necessary to establish a specific legal basis for the tax authorities in order to obtain data from national databases for the preparation of risk analysis. This is necessary to assess the type of companies or companies to be controlled. Otherwise, the tax authority would have to initiate a number of tax procedures which would impose an unnecessary burden on a large number of undertakings. The tax authorities can ask for the data in a purposeful manner, i.e. only those necessary to identify the tax risks. The rule certainly does not give the tax authorities the right to receive sensitive personal data from persons from any database. The tax authority may also check the conformity of the use of movable property belonging to undertakings with that recorded in the tax accounts. The current wording of the law, which limits the possibility of an observation to the case where movable property is held by a person not engaged in economic or professional activities, is incompatible with the meaning or purpose of the law. The draft law provides explicitly that any movable property which is not located in the place where the undertaking is operating, regardless of who is in possession of the matter, may be considered. The law retains the prohibition of searches for observation, opening locked rooms or entering a person's living quarters. That's not an option. Finally, the law on electronic communications makes changes, which are also due to the tightening of data protection rules. The Tax Administration Act also entitles the tax authorities to collect evidence from third parties. The Electronic Communications Act does not give a communications undertaking the right to share information for tax purposes; information is only allowed for the purpose of investigating an offence. In fact, in some cases the tax authorities also need to check whether the information provided by the taxpayer is correct or to ask for evidence that the taxpayer has failed to provide. We are certainly not talking here, in the context of the tax procedure, about access to message secrecy; this right does not arise. We are talking about general information about the services ordered by the customer, as well as the bill of data. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 April 2017. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U188	The first question to the Minister is asked by Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U189	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! There are a number of proposals in this draft, mostly because of the need for life itself. But the most sensitive part of this bill is undoubtedly what you, as if of little importance, left nicely at the end of your report. However, it is this subject that is sensitive. This is also proven by the letter from the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, which received us today, which questions the usefulness of a couple of words to look at an movable matter in this draft. It is likely that the drafters are primarily referring to cars by this movable matter. Everything about monitoring cars is, of course, a sensitive issue and linked to certain fears. Could you open up this subject a little bit more closely?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U190	Thank you for a good question. The actual purpose of this draft is to enable the tax authorities to carry out their main work and to avoid unnecessary disputes, if that is the case, over the interpretation of the law. For the law not to be interpreted in different ways and not to be understood differently, it should normally be of interest to everyone, both by the tax authorities and by the undertaking. Business organisations have not paid particular attention to this. It is simply the question of interpretation in the context of whether the tax authority can view things that are not currently in the place where the undertaking operates that is the point of question. The other party to the case is what is treated as a person by law, for example, a member of the board of directors of a particular enterprise, whether it is a person who is not engaged in an economic activity or whether it is a person who has a particular movable property in his possession and can be considered. In order to eliminate different interpretations, the aim is to lay down a direct rule that allows things to be seen when they are outside the scope of the undertaking's activities, regardless of who is in possession of them. It is very clear and very concrete, and I think that it is logically structured in the minds of all parties. The tax authority should not be deprived of the right to observe them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U191	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The monitoring of movable property is adequately and exhaustively regulated in § 72 of the Tax Administration Act. All of this § 72 constitutes an examination of immovable property, but it also includes movable property and is amended, which raises doubts. For example, the explanatory memorandum states: "... it is as if there is no right to carry out an observation if the member of the management board of the taxable person is seated at the wheel of the car. " The question arises as to how this observation is going to take place in practice. We have this fear, at least for me, whether it's an administrative act or whether they're already going to the surveillance area. Please describe how this observation will take place, whether the vehicle is in motion and whether the taxpayer knows that it is being looked at.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U193	Thank you. That's a good question. I'm glad you brought that up. In the introduction to your question, you stated that it seems to you that the current legal provisions actually provide an opportunity for all these processes. That was the introduction to your question, where you appeald that we should not make any new changes, we should not go over the existing situation. Rather, the nature of this problem is that, when you look at the text of the law, there is a question of interpretation. I think that, from the point of view of the questioner, we could say all the more that it needs to be set out even more precisely so that there is no confusion with the concept of a third party, which may sooner or later start to cause litigation and may at some point also unduly rob the tax authorities of both temporal and financial resources. However, this financial resource is a resource for our taxpayers. I think that all the more reason for us to set out very precisely what tax authorities' rights are. The question really arises as to whether a moving or standing car can be viewed. Certainly, in order to start making certain observations, a prior process must also be initiated, it is not possible, for its own sake, simply to begin with one observation or another. However, it is very important that risk assessments, which are also part of this draft, are given the opportunity to do so in existing registers. This is what we have also been waiting for the tax administration not to turn to a number of taxpayers either for additional data or for ex-ante controls, but, in the context of existing registers, it would be possible to make a decision on whether to go to check one or the other company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U194	The next minute's question will be asked by Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U195	Good manager! Good minister! The Taxpayers' Association has argued that the public sector is increasingly trying to categorise and, at the same time, the public is increasingly tearing the private sector naked. They refer to the drawing up of tax tables or to this beauty contest, where big people can wave and small businesses make it look like they pay little tax. But their proposal for improvement has not been taken into account. Tell us a little bit why this has not been done and why it is good for the taxpayer for this 'beautiful contest', the creation of rankings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U196	Of course I am. Thank you, that's a good question! If you look at where this proposal to increase transparency has come from, you will see that it has come from the largest business organisation in Estonia, a Chamber of Commerce and Industry with more than 3000 members, I think. It is certainly the largest business organisation in Estonia. I think that all our internal regulation and thinking are moving in the direction that non-payment of taxes must not be a competitive advantage in everyday activities. I think that this has also spurred business organisations not only to approve the draft, but also to make proposals for future transparency decisions for the legislator itself. I would like to remind you that the proposals for a number of changes that have eliminated the competitive advantages of non-payment of taxes have come from business organisations, I am talking about the liquid fuel market, I am talking about the metalworking industry. A little while ago, we dealt with the reverse charge of armature and metal products. This was not an initiative of the Ministry of Finance or any other ministry, but it was the Chamber of Commerce that brought it on the table. We saw no reason not to process their proposal. I think that greater transparency will give all parties greater certainty that a common thing is being done. Of course, macro numbers have been published, not the salary of a particular employee of one company or another. But if we look at companies working in the same sector and we see the number of employees and the labour tax they collect, and if the differences are very large, then I think that companies themselves also have the question of how this is possible, whether the second company really works so much better and more efficiently every day. I think it will certainly provide a substance for future analyses and not only for the state, but I think it will certainly be good for entrepreneurs too. I'm more positive. The more public and transparency, the easier it will be for all parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U197	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U198	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In answering Mr Ammas' question, you mentioned that the need to introduce an observation of movable property is justified by the collection of tax revenues. Can you tell us how much tax revenue has been lost due to the current regulation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U199	Thank you. Sometimes I have this moment when I'm wondering if I should review the verbatim. Did some of my sentences say that this is justified by the loss of tax revenue? I may be wrong, but I feel like I didn't say that. Later, I can review it from the verbatim so as not to be unfair to you, but I'm guessing I haven't said such a sentence. You might rather have asked me what, as I understand it, the content of your question was, what the impact of this particular draft will be in the future. This is also set out in the explanatory memorandum. When we are talking about the fiscal impact, I think that it is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the significant fiscal impact is not presently or has not been taken into account. Rather, it is a behavioural change and, in the case of this example, the creation of clarity, the establishment of a 'clear rule' by the tax authorities. My colleague Aivar Sõerd asked that it seems that this standard already exists and why we should even deal with it. We rather want to clarify this so that there will be no further litigation. The aim is not to increase revenue from the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U200	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U201	I must, unfortunately, clarify my question. You said, though, that observation is an act which requires a certain procedure to be initiated, i.e. it takes place in the context of an administrative procedure. But my question is, how will this happen after this legislative amendment has been passed? The observation of an item still means that the taxpayer shows his artifact in front of it, knows that it is being looked at and the situation is being fixed. I ask how this observation of the vehicle takes place in practice, whether it looks at a moving vehicle and whether the taxpayer knows that his vehicle is being looked at. My problem is whether it is not the introduction of hidden surveillance activities into tax regulation, which would be unacceptable, as we are talking about administrative procedures at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U202	At the end of each procedure, the taxpayer will certainly have the right to receive further information and a full overview of what has been done during its operations. As for whether you look at it remotely or closely, with or without binoculars, I will give you a special overview of it. I have not really asked the tax administration what the observation mechanism and procedures have generally become under the laws in force. But I'm sure I can give you information on that. Believe me, this promise is going to be a verbatim, I'm sending you this information. As a former head of the tax administration, you will remember how those observations took place at that time, perhaps something has changed there. I've never run the IRS. But I'm sure I'll get you an accurate overview of how the tax administration is doing this day, 2017, in 2017. I hope I don't have to publish any so-called secret actions, I don't think there are any such things. But I'm sure I'll give you that information. So let's write down the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U203	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question was inspired by the question previously raised about the observation of movable property by the tax authorities. You promised Aivar Sõerd to answer that in writing, but I will ask. There are cameras in nature that look at animals and birds. They don't know they're being watched. Now the same question arises as to whether a person is aware of this observation when he is viewed. The second question is which European country's practice is more closely linked to it. I know there are countries where neighbours are also involved in such an observation, who notice everything and send certain information to the information gathering centre somewhere. Are we like any European countries, or are we original here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U205	According to my information, we're not original in any part of this. Tax authorities in all countries have the right to carry out internal procedures that are in place in one country or another, and they have granted different rights to tax authorities. As far as I am concerned, we are essentially no different from the other Member States of the European Union. I have already stated in my introductory speech that it is important to note what Mr Sõerd asked in the committee as to whether the tax authorities have the right to enter the object in question if, for example, it is my home, if the private limited company is located in my home. This right does not arise from the tax administration, in order to enter without permission, there must be a warrant. When we're talking about visual observation, as I promised, I'll send Aivar Sõerd an explanation of how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U206	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, First of all, I would like to ask you that, if you answer Aivar Sõerdi's question in writing, please also send this answer to the Free Party Group, because we believe that one of the biggest confusions this bill is causing is exactly how it is going to be handled. You said that there was no fiscal impact. So let me ask you this: where does this come from, what is the origin of this point or the regulation you are offering? Does this result from a program or a world view of one or another of the coalition's parties, from the work of the tax administration, or is it invented by officials?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U208	Thank you. This is not a political initiative. The coalition agreement was not negotiated two months ago. Rather, this need has arisen in everyday life. As I said in my introductory speech and later in replying to someone: in order to prevent possible misinterpretations in the future. As you have noted, in the current debate, a fellow Member felt that everything they wanted to do could actually be done on the basis of the law in force. At the same time, however, there is an opinion on the side of the tax authorities that this is actually not the case and there may be different interpretations. If this rule is, in essence, precisely determined and specified in order to avoid subsequent litigation, then, I think, it should be in everyone's best interests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U209	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Data Protection Inspectorate and the Estonian Bar Association have made several serious comments about this bill. One of these concerns whether we are not dealing with a possible breach of the Constitution, if information is already collected in advance on the type, account and all such circumstances of the taxpayer's communication agreement. Please answer this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U211	Thank you. Yeah, the bill's been dealt with for a very long time. If we sometimes say that one or the other draft has been going through some processes very quickly, then this bill has really been in the process at the level of the government for a very long time. I may be wrong, but it's probably been processed for over a year. Various clarifications have been made over time. I also come to the heart of your question, but before I say that, for example, the Federation of Patients was concerned about what data the Tax and Customs Board would like to start asking in the future. They raised questions about health information systems, prescription centres, public health databases, etc., generally sensitive personal data. Consequently, we have drawn up precise lists of data that can be requested by the tax authorities. However, as far as communication operators are concerned, this topic was also raised several times in the discussion, also when the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association was raised. This association was the main debate partner on the obligations of the liaison company and it has confirmed that the matter is correct. Once again, it would be equally understandable to everyone: it is not about the secrecy of the message; it is not being received by the tax administration. He can't get any text messages, phone calls, dialed numbers, etc. It may only receive the name and contact details of the customer, information on the existence of contracts concluded and the type of service and information on the payment of the invoice. Everything about speech or SMS and so-called sensitive information is impossible for him to reach.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U212	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U213	Good manager! Good minister! The lawyer has said that the protection of tax secrecy is weak in Estonia. The Taxpayers' Association has stated that the regulation of state liability is lacking, that the tax administration is lobbying too much and that the rankings are being published. You have not taken account of the position of the Bar Association. It has been said that the institutions actually have internal controls that should watch tax secrecy leak into the press. Recently, I listened to the Attorney General's Justice Committee, which could not tell us how the evidence of the accusation had leaked from the post and the state prosecutor's office. Is there nothing wrong with it, though, if so hard institutions cannot make it clear? I guess the internal controls won't be able to do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U214	Thank you. I don't think there's anything wrong. Of course, companies have different amounts of data about us and different levels of specificity. I always remember a private company at a time like this, and I'm sure there's a lot of information about us. It's a bank with our current account. As a private company, the bank has a complete overview of our behaviour, he knows if we have paid for a cinema ticket with a card or bought a litre of milk. However, when we make a purchase, we do not think about it or choose a bank based on where there is less or more reliability. We are very likely to make our decisions when choosing a bank for other reasons, it is then the accessibility of a fee or a specific bank account (the latter's share has definitely decreased over time, given today's online banking). I assume that when we choose one or the other bank, we are not based on where data protection is better or worse, we assume that there is a single standard for keeping this data. What I want to say in this long story is that, in the same way, all other repositories have specific standards that determine how much they have the right to issue any data to a third party at all. I've gotten into a kind of amplage where I may not be as strong, but as far as I can tell, this database security level is being improved. We've also read in the paper that employees made inquiries many years ago, if I'm not mistaken, from the police database. In such cases, security levels will naturally be raised. As for what you started, whether disclosure of additional information on the number of employees and other circumstances on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board increases any risk, say, to one company or another, I would rather say that it is more transparent. As I have already answered one question, I think it is positive. I would look at it this way, not so that it increases the risk of security when it is known that at that moment there are, for example, so many employees in one company or another. I think this will also increase the credibility of the company in concluding possible contracts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U215	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You mentioned that transparency is very important. I agree with the honourable minister on making tax payments popular. I was concerned by your reference that transparency and the public are one of the important weapons here. I am not very sure that if, as a result of our status, we constantly have to undress in front of others, that we will then want to do so in the future. Is it not the same with entrepreneurship that we are moving step by step in a direction where everything must be so scary public? I understand the wishes of people who would like to peek into our bedroom every day with binoculars or without binoculars, but will being an entrepreneur become popular in terms of measures that could actually be treated differently? The tax administration has many opportunities to say to the company that they consider the taxes paid by the company on its own business to be too low. It doesn't have to go public.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U217	Thank you, good Urmas! What you said last time is actually done. This is exactly what the tax authority is doing to monitor, for example, the sector's salaries and send the company the information you described. But when it comes to the question of its nature, it is interesting that the proposal to have greater transparency in the future, i.e. to publish the number of employees and, for example, the gross amount of VAT on companies, did not come from the tax authorities or the Ministry of Finance; it came from the entrepreneurs themselves, the largest business organisation in Estonia. This is certainly an important new indicator. In fact, it is not new, it is a recent trend that entrepreneurs themselves are saying that they would like more transparency. It has not been the initiative of the legislator to bring it in. As I said before, this draft has been dealt with for a very long time, and I am not kidding when I say that the same Chamber of Commerce has addressed the Minister of Finance several times to the question of when this draft will reach Parliament, because they want transparency to increase. This proposal has come from businesses themselves, not from the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U218	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, What do you think of this idea if, in addition to such carrot entrepreneurs, especially small businesses, which may not have very active activity every month, if they have not made a declaration by the correct date, it is considered a zero declaration and, because of such zero declarations, tax authorities do not bother businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U220	Thank you. It might be correct to say that today is the first reading and the bill always has three readings. You can improve this draft with various proposals in Parliament. If the trader has not submitted a declaration, could it be automatically treated as a zero declaration? I'm not sure that's the best solution. By the way, one example of cutting red tape. At one time, even if the company actually had a zero return, i.e. it did not have a turnover, it was obliged to notify the tax administration every month. It's a long time ago, but I just remembered that there have been such declarations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U221	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I have a somewhat selfish desire to educate myself quickly and simply. If this draft law is adopted as a law, it will allow you to request further information from the communications company about the customer's communications bills. This is necessary in order for the tax authority to be able to verify how input tax on the acquired property is deducted, whether it is done correctly or with some falsehood. If it is possible, please explain, if that is not possible, I will continue to investigate myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U223	It's still possible. Let me give you the simplest example. The company has built real estate, it has contributed to it and has applied for VAT in full, 100%, saying that it is its office. I will simply give a quick example that there are three employees in this company, but later 15 telephone numbers have been registered at the office address, in addition to the Viasat gold package with cartoon channels. Such an example, which I have just described, could raise the question of whether it is an office or a home. Of course, it may be an office where cartoons are also viewed during the day. However, it is very important that the tax authority does not simply go to question one or the other undertaking, but rather that risk analysis and profile should provide an overview of whether this could be a potential illogicality in a tax way. As far as information technology is concerned and business information is concerned, as I mentioned earlier, it is not possible to access either the message or the call, nor the telephone numbers that have been called or from which calls have been received. All of this, these bills, can only be asked if a particular trader has been questioned before. The tax authority must always ask the company first to give me these and these details of these taxes and invoices. If, for any reason, an undertaking refuses, fails to reply, ignores or does not provide this information, that is only then this right arises. There's no way to go straight. This is certainly a very important nuance, which can also be clarified here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U224	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U225	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I certainly agree that, in terms of conditions of competition, it is entirely fair when taxes have been paid and there is no advantage. At the same time, there are different proposals for both Parliament and the government, and they certainly need to be analysed very clearly. But what is the impact of this possible change in terms of what the companies themselves have pointed out? How much could it bring to the Treasury or how much would it improve the competitiveness of these same companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U226	Thank you. This draft law aims to implement a number of amendments. I expect you to have in mind the new potential proposals from the Chamber of Commerce on transparency. No, this impact has not been assessed in the context of whether it would automatically have a significant impact on the state budget. Rather, transparency is good and beneficial for all parties involved; it will also benefit these same operators in their contractual relations with potential contractual partners in the future. This amendment, which increases transparency by publishing quarterly data on the website of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, does not have a financial dimension. That is not its purpose. The Chamber of Commerce did not send this proposal with the aim of having a fiscal dimension. It doesn't have that purpose, really. Transparency is not financially measurable, but rather important to improve the business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U227	Minister, there are no further questions for you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U228	Thank you. And as I promised, I will send information to the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U229	The presentation of the committee will be given by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U230	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with a few marginal notes. First of all, there was this letter from the EML, which related to an issue such as looking at a movable matter. This letter was received by e.M.S. today at 11:40 p.m. Clearly, we were simply not physically able to answer the question asked. However, as chairman of the committee, I assure you that we will be submitting an inquiry to the Ministry of Finance tomorrow, perhaps also to the Tax and Customs Board, and we will try to achieve that by the time of second reading, we will have these answers. Second marginal note. Here we were asked what is the efficiency of our tax system. The latest data are for 2015. It is clear that 2016 data cannot yet be available. I can tell you the good news that we collect almost 93% of VAT in the country, i.e. it is estimated that 7% will not be collected. With this figure, we are in the eighth place in the European Union. In these countries, which are ahead of us, there is no collection of 5 to 7%, and in Sweden, by way of exception, 2%. So this is a very good place, given that our closest neighbours Latvia and Lithuania will be left with VAT in my memory minus 25% or 35%. So our Tax and Customs Board is working very effectively. But now from the committee meeting. This took place on 9 January, and the Minister of Finance Sven Sester was also invited, who gave an overview of the draft law. Basically, those theories that were in his speech at the time, they sounded from this remote control today. I'm not gonna say it again, it's a double job. There was a debate in the Commission, and I will give you a few examples of the questions that have been put. It asked, for example, whether the amendment was intended to introduce more control over the use of passenger cars acquired for business purposes. The Minister explained that this was not the primary objective, as well as the crane belonging to the company. Then they described a pretty literary situation where everything depends on who's a crane driver. If the address of the place of residence and the place of work is the same, how will observation and entry take place? They're still afraid they're gonna hurt somebody here. The Minister explained what is stated in the law that regulation does not change, the tax authority cannot search any movable property, open locked rooms or storage facilities, or enter the dwelling against the will of the persons living there. Even where those premises carry out an economic or professional activity by a taxable person, such activity must be notified in advance and all of this may take place only during working hours. Another question was whether it is certain that the observation provision is necessary at all. It was considered that this principle could be derived by interpretation from the law already in force. The Minister explained that it is a matter of interpreting the concept of a member of the board and following the clarification of the law, it is clear who has the rights and obligations. A board member can be checked as any other person. Interest was expressed as to the budgetary implications of the change to the survey. The Minister explained that this was a neutral change in budgetary terms, in particular it was hoped that this would lead to an improvement in tax behaviour. If I'm allowed, I'll give you my personal opinion. When we met representatives of the Tax and Customs Board, it became clear that the tax gap is occurring in one particular economic sphere, namely the construction of residential buildings. It is a sphere where it is very difficult to prove one thing or another, but it is very easy to hide real costs, for example. I imagine it in this way that in the same field, I mean the same territory in the same city, rural municipality or county, the managers of construction companies know very well who does what. The greater the transparency, the more they see, for example, the number of employees declared and the amount of tax paid, the more questions they may have. One company works honestly and is very far from the super result shown by the next-based company, although there are perhaps three times fewer employees and there are also shown much fewer objects. So, given two things that transparency is increasing and that the tax hole is mostly in the construction sector, I think that there may still be some effect on this draft, namely that it may have a positive impact on tax receipts. Four decisions were adopted at the end of the debate. Firstly, the chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur for the Commission. Secondly, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 18 January today. Thirdly, it was decided to propose ending the first reading of the draft. Fourthly, it was decided to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on Wednesday 1 February. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U231	Any questions for the waitress? Please, Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U232	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Did the Commission not mention, for example, that since this draft has been processed for a long time and the data has been taken from a distant past, there could still have been some more recent data in it? For example, when it comes to tax authorities' controls, the situation in August 2015 is the most recent one. Previously compared to 2014. Can't we have some more recent data here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U233	Thank you. I don't know how to make that assessment. The Government gave this draft to the proceedings at the beginning of November and, given the very long round of coordination, it is clear that it was possible to use 2015 data specifically in this draft. I think so. From the Minister's point of view, it sounded like almost a year ago this bill was being coordinated by the government. After doing something different to go through another round of coordination, I think it's a waste of time. Furthermore, I will say that I have been in the position of chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a very short time, of course, but during that time my respect for the Tax and Customs Board has increased. I think there is little difference between 2014 and 2015 or 2015 and 2016. Their work is, in my opinion, one of the most effective in terms of results when we look at our institutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U234	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Would the political groups like to negotiate? I don't see that wish. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 320. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 320 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U235	Today's fifth item is the first reading of Bill 322 of the Act amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U236	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give an overview of the draft law amending the Tax Exchange Act and the Tax Administration Act, which bears the number 322. Globally, more and more support is gaining from more transparent taxation and a fairer competitive environment. Today, if you note, we are discussing another draft on this subject, and we are talking about the same keywords. The problem is cross-border aggressive tax planning. The Tax Exchange Act transposes EU and OECD legislation which obliges tax authorities to exchange information on their rulings and on the economic performance of large groups. The exchange of information concerns preliminary rulings which may have any cross-border effect, such as a transaction partner or its place of business abroad. Only companies operating within Estonia are not affected by the change. The information exchange does not require any additional contribution from the company. Information will be exchanged on advance rulings issued since 2012. We have preliminary rulings containing a cross-border element in a total of 46 cases. Information on prior rulings must be communicated to all Member States of the European Union by the end of 2017. In the future, information on advance rulings will be exchanged between countries on a regular basis twice a year. As regards the reporting of large groups, the exchange of information on this issue will lead to annual reporting obligations for large groups with sales revenue above EUR 750 million. The tax authorities estimate that there are fewer than ten large groups with Estonian roots. Reporting shall be based on normal accounting reporting and shall not require additional data to be collected from large groups. Information shall be exchanged annually on the group's income tax liability, profit, share capital, tangible assets, activities or the number of employees of a subsidiary. For the first time, large groups will have to report on the basis of the 2016 annual report by the end of 2017 at the latest. A subsidiary which has to report on behalf of the parent in certain cases shall be granted a further annual transitional period. The report shall be forwarded by the Tax and Customs Board to the countries on whose territory a particular group of companies operates. It is also necessary to align the rules on international assistance in tax administration law with the OECD standard. We have been accused of weak protection of the tax interests of the partner countries, which has affected the international assessment of Estonia's ability to exchange information. Therefore, in the Tax Administration Act, we must give the Tax and Customs Board the right to postpone informing the person that the foreign state has asked a third party, such as a bank, to collect information on his or her tax case. The Tax and Customs Board must also have the right not to inform that third party which country has submitted the request for information and whose tax information is collected. It is important that the requesting State must be able to demonstrate that informing a person can make the tax procedure much more difficult or impossible. The law is planned to enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U237	Minister, there are no questions for you. The presentation of the committee will be given by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U238	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft law also took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 9 January and the Minister of Finance was present and gave answers to the questions. During the debate, it was asked whether the exchange of information targeted countries with different laws or bad practices. The Minister replied that the aim was to avoid tax planning that distorts fair competition between companies. During the exchange of information, national tax administrations can assess whether their assessments of what is happening in other countries are correct. It was asked whether the abolition of the six-month notice rule from the tax amendment was included in the draft. The minister replied that it was not in this law. Interested in how data exchange takes place and in what language. The answer was that in English and in the prescribed formats, they exist, we simply join them now. It was requested to know how long the person may be delayed when data are collected from third parties and, in the event of non-notification, the rights and possibilities of the taxpayer to challenge the act. According to a representative of the Ministry, the procedures vary from country to country. There are countries that are not informed, these countries are in the majority, also in Europe. In Estonia, taxpayers are currently entitled to be informed. It does not meet the international standard and it is set as a minus in our case. The draft introduces a provision that the notification can be postponed if the third country needs it. There is no deadline, but the questioning of information is related to the tax procedure. Asked whether a taxpayer's account statement could be asked for any periods. According to the Minister's explanation, a tax procedure must be initiated if information is needed without informing the person. There is still no right to leave information untransmitted during the exchange of data, but this entails an obligation to inform the person. They also wanted to know how much this change is our free choice and how much precept. According to a representative of the Ministry, this is a standard for the exchange of information at the request of the OECD. Its implementation is, in my opinion, such a strange sentence of the gentlemen's agreement. The fact that we have not implemented it so far has been highlighted, and now we are improving this provision. At the end of the Commission meeting, exactly the same decisions were taken on the previous point: the Commission rapporteur is the chairman of the committee, the Chamber was sent by 18 January, the first reading was closed and the deadline for submitting amendments was 1 February 2017. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U239	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. Do the political groups have a wish to negotiate? That request shall not be published. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 322. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 322 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U240	The next item is the first reading of the Bill 347 on amendments to the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (location of the legal person and its board of directors or the body replacing it). Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U241	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of this draft is one and clear: to contribute to the development of e-residency. The main objective of the draft is to facilitate the establishment of legal persons and their membership in the governing bodies. The location of certain companies, private limited liability companies, public limited liability companies and profit cooperatives is, according to the law in force, only the location of the management board, which must therefore also be located in Estonia. The requirement that the company's board of directors must always be located in Estonia makes the establishment of a legal person much less attractive to Estonian e-residents. The purpose of this draft is to alleviate this requirement in such a way as to allow the company to be managed abroad. However, the company must still be established in Estonia, otherwise it would no longer be an Estonian company. How do we achieve this, so that almost all legal persons in Estonia can be managed abroad from the entry into force of the Act, with the exception of exceptions in the field of the financial sector? The financial sector must have greater credibility, foreign money is being dealt with and more stringent rules are needed. To this end, we amend the law of the General Part of the Civil Code in such a way that the location of a legal person in private law is designated as a place in Estonia and that the compulsory link of the legal person's seat to the seat of the management board of the legal person is abolished. But we do not do it unconditionally, we simply do not say loosely that the board of directors may be abroad. It is very important for creditors, the state to deal with matters of professional interest and third parties who are involved in a transaction with their legal entities in order to know the contact person through whom this company can be contacted. This means that legal persons whose board is not established in Estonia will be obliged to appoint a contact person operating in Estonia. The circle of persons from which a contact person may be appointed is narrow. We expect these individuals to be more diligent and reliable than usual because of their professional activities and due to supervisory and trust requirements. The contact person may be a notary, notary office, lawyer, law firm, sworn auditor and audit firm. A tax representative or a service provider of trusts and companies may also be appointed for this purpose. This means that according to the draft, a member of the management board of a legal person can also be appointed as a contact person, provided that he or she acts, resides and is based in Estonia. Therefore, the requirement to appoint a contact person should ensure contact and communication and ensure a legal situation in which declarations of intent can be submitted to the company: insolvency notices, tax claims, etc. In addition, the draft stipulates that for the purpose of contacting potential legal persons whose management, using the e-residency option, is located outside Estonia, as well as all other Estonian entrepreneurs, are obliged to give the registrar their e-mail address. Today we have a large number of companies that are registered somewhere in the apartment and which are difficult to contact, they can also be registered years ago. There is a need to create a more effective way of contacting these companies, both the state and, of course, third parties. This means that the company's e-mail address is entered on the commercial register card and, in the case of a company whose board of directors is located outside Estonia, the identity of the contact person with high reliability chosen from this narrow circle of persons. In addition, an important principle is established that if the management of a company that operates outside Estonia has legal liability, which may be civil liability, but in certain cases also criminal liability, and if the legal person is liquidated, the documents of that legal person must be preserved in Estonia after liquidation. This is essential in order to ensure that creditors, bailiffs and insolvency practitioners can have access to these documents. As I said, there is a clear exception in this draft that the head offices of creditors and credit intermediaries and other companies in the financial sector must be located in Estonia because they have been authorised by the state and can deal with foreign money. There has been a long controversy over this draft. Some have also been opposed and others have been in favour among entrepreneurs, lawyers and analysts. The argument against this has been, above all, that we are overly relaxing our business law. It has been borne in mind that if in certain cases the board of directors may not be in Estonia, we have tried to balance it with the contact person model. Other businesses, in particular representatives of the innovation sector and the service economy and e-residency advocates, have considered this change to be urgently needed. This draft confirms that the development of digital Estonia and e-residency is important for the new government and we are now able to do so more strongly than we may have been able to do at some point in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U242	Minister, there are no questions for you. Still is, I'm sorry! Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My attention was drawn to your last sentence. What exactly did you mean by "maybe in the past"? Will the registration of companies be checked at an earlier time if this bill becomes a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U244	No, I just read that Taavi Kotka wrote today on Facebook or Postimees that the new government's priority is not innovation or digital solutions. I was not talking about the bill, I was pointing out that it was a priority. It took, let's say, a long enough time to process this bill. As I said, there are conflicting opinions on this draft. We have tried to build a church in the middle of a village, but we ourselves tend to respond to innovation and digital interests, i.e. the church is not quite in the middle of the village either. Certainly, this is what we discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, it makes sense to have a discussion circle of stakeholders where they, I hope, highlight their legitimate concerns and warnings. But I think a possible victory outweighs the potential risk. We're taking that risk, and our assumption is that we don't screw up, but if there's a threat, it needs to be grounded.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U245	Good manager! Good minister! I'm used to the Supreme Court being the voice of God and saying final judgment. The Supreme Court has made eight rather long proposals. Two of them have been rejected and the rest have been explained to the so-called ultimate truth possessor. How does this work, however, if the institution that gives a final assessment of all laws and their implementation has not been taken into account much?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U246	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U247	Thank you. The legislator is a representative of the people and the monopoly of legislation belongs to Parliament. Parliament is sovereign in this regard. All other opinions on the law are opinions, and these opinions, as I said, are presented in very different ways. For example, some of the bar representatives say that it is a very good law, but some say that it is too progressive in the sense that control can weaken. The task of the Supreme Court is to understand the law on the basis of the laws adopted by the Estonian National Council. The Supreme Court also has the right to annul, in whole or in part, those laws which are contrary to the Constitution. In my opinion, this law is not contrary to the Constitution. This law is reasonably balanced and positive and helps us to develop e-residency so that it is not just a declarative PR project, but a service industry sector where Estonian entrepreneurs who provide this service can work as contact persons or as carriers of these projects. If there is work and bread, then there is tax revenue for which we can sustain all the good that we want to see in this country in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U248	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U249	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I take advantage of the great opportunity that has fallen upon my lap to use your intellectual help to formulate an answer to one question posed by a diplomat from another country. Specifically, speaking of our e-residency, he asked if e-residency was a digital paradise. I was immediately alert to the word because it is associated with a tax haven or a flag paradise and other such terms. We'll meet again, and I haven't really answered him yet. Help me formulate a good answer to him that our e-residency is not a digital paradise that can be put into a family with things such as tax haven, flag paradise and other paradises.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U250	Thank you. E-residency is one service. It's exciting in its innovative solution, but it's nothing more than a service. By offering this service internationally, we do not want to create a situation where tax evasion can be achieved. The tax is always paid as is the general principle of international tax law: it is paid where the tax is levied and where the value is created. When we talk about companies established in Estonia as legal persons in the case of e-residency, in most cases they create this value in the United States, India, Singapore or anywhere. There should be no relief in tax matters. The European Union's money laundering law, the most rigid money laundering law in the world, will certainly provide us with sufficient guarantees to that end.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U251	Minister, there are no further questions for you. The chair will be presented by Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U252	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good minister! Draft 347 was at first reading in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 9 January. The contents of the draft act were presented to us by Minister Urmas Reinsalu. I will be very brief about the Commission's debate. Understandably, my brief summary repeats what was previously said by the Minister. The law amending the Commercial Code and related amendments to other laws is intended to create the possibility of managing Estonian companies from abroad, currently both the company and the management board must be located in Estonia. If any legal person in Estonia is to be run across the border, the company must appoint a contact person with the location of Estonia. Everyone can't be a contact person; they fit into this role, such as those already heard, notaries, notaries, lawyers, law firms, sworn auditors, etc. They all have one common denominator: they are professions with higher requirements or higher due diligence obligations, as it is called. This circle of persons is legally defined and can be found in a separate directory. Accessibility regarding the location of management does not concern credit institutions, as has already been mentioned. Their registered office and head office must continue to be in Estonia. The amendment creates additional opportunities for the activities of e-residents in addition to Estonian entrepreneurs. The draft requires companies to submit their e-mail address to the Commercial Register in the future, which is currently optional. The draft also raised some questions in the Commission. Firstly, could there be a problem if information about many companies is concentrated in the hands of a single contact person? The Minister said that there was no problem and thought that there might not be a conflict of interest. One member of the Commission specified the mandatory choice of contact person. It was confirmed that a legal person governed from abroad cannot appoint a freely elected person residing in Estonia as a member of his board, and it is impossible to avoid a legal restriction. The Commission decided to put this draft on the plenary agenda today, 18 January, and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 8 February. All the decisions were unanimous, including that I was appointed rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U253	Peter Ernits will ask the waitress a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U254	Sure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U255	Good manager! Good waitress! Was it also a question of how many residents a contact could have? Is that an endless number?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U256	Thank you, peter ernits, the honorable questioner. The Commission did not discuss this issue in this form. I hope I'm not wrong, but I'm looking at Mr Reinsalu when I say that I don't think there's a numerical limit. Yes, the minister nods, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U257	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do the political groups want to negotiate? That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 347. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 347 amendments at 4 p.m. on 8 February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U258	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present the representative of the initiator of the draft speech chair, Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U259	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to present to you the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic, which consists of two parts. The aim of the first part is to facilitate the work of minors in the Republic of Estonia and the second part clarifies the regulation of the on-call time of persons providing IT support services; they are granted an exception compared to the general on-call time regulation. The bill has a pretty long history. The working conditions of minors, how to satisfy the interest of minors in acquiring work experience and, at the same time, to guarantee the principles of child protection, were already discussed in the previous Parliament, probably before, but no legal changes have been made so far. The Ministry of Social Affairs has been preparing this draft for nearly a year, it has been negotiated with various parties, and we believe that sensible amendments have been received that balance one and the other interests. Firstly, it is necessary to prevent this issue, which also arose in the Commission, from further relaxing the working conditions of minors, more than the proposed draft. This area is quite strictly regulated by international agreements both at European Union level and within the framework of child protection, but there are more stringent rules in Estonia than the directive requires for many points and for many groups of minors. We have therefore reached an agreement, in cooperation with the social partners, on this draft. The problem is simple in itself. Minors, in particular compulsory minors, who have been employed as seasonal workers in a variety of jobs, are generally less productive than adult workers. As there are quite a number of legal constraints in the implementation of their work and the organisation of their work requires a considerable amount of control, regulation and monitoring by the employer, implementation of the work of minors is not attractive enough in the eyes of very many businesses. On the other hand, if we look at the entry of minors into the labour market, the high rates of youth unemployment are about twice as high as the average unemployment rate in Estonia is partly justified by the lack of previous work experience for these people. Young people often end up in closed circles because the employer wants an experienced employee and therefore the young person cannot gain experience. In this context, it is undoubtedly a good idea for minors to be able to obtain initial work experience and work habits during school holidays through easier work. Now I am talking about the concrete changes that the draft is planned to make in this area. Firstly, we currently have two lists: a list of authorised works and a list of prohibited works in order to recruit minors. We have looked at the list of authorised works, compared it with the list of prohibited works, and we have come to the conclusion that the list of authorised works is impractical, which in many cases limits unreasonable areas where minors are allowed to work. From now on, we will only establish a short open list for 13-year-olds. Secondly, we lose the obligation to apply for a permit from the Labour Inspectorate when they are 13 to 14 years old. This obligation will continue to apply to the recruitment of minors aged 7 to 12, with very limited opportunities to work both in terms of time and in terms of sectors. We will not change that; the working of this group is also most limited by international agreements. However, we do wish to waive this requirement in the case of 13 to 14-year-olds. The reason for quitting is simple in itself. The procedure for this authorisation is document-based and, by its very nature, completely formal; it is additional bureaucracy, which the Labour Inspectorate will certainly be happy to deal with, but it imposes additional bureaucratic obligations on employers and thereby reduces the attractiveness of recruiting minors. At the same time, there has been no evidence that this authorisation had any impact on the safety and health of minors. The most important changes have been made to the working time regulation and are beautifully detailed. I'll read them to you. I hope you can follow it. I will list the changes by age group and compare existing legislation and proposals. First of all, they're 7 to 12 years old. They are allowed to carry out a very limited number of works in cultural, sporting and other fields. Under current law, they are allowed to work three hours a day and 15 hours a seven-day period. With the draft, we want to differentiate between work outside of study and work during study, i.e. work in between periods and work in the course of a quarter. The working period of a quarter of the seven to 12-year-olds, but in the extracurricular period, in essence, we want to limit it in the evenings. If it is currently allowed to work three hours a day, the draft stipulates that two hours a day and 12 hours a week should be allowed to work, that is to say, within a quarter. During school holidays, regulation remains the same, i.e. it is allowed to work three hours a day and 15 hours a week. Children aged 13 to 14 years or older subject to compulsory education, i.e. all students still in primary school or young people aged 13 to 14 years: current regulation allows them to work four hours a day and 20 hours a week. Here, too, we differentiate between teaching and school holidays: during a teaching quarter we allow to work two hours a day and 12 hours a week, during school holidays we extend this time to seven hours a day and 35 hours a week. 15-year-olds not subject to compulsory schooling and 16-year-olds not subject to compulsory schooling or 17-year-olds. Currently, one of this group can work six hours a day, the other seven hours a day. We do not see the need to further limit their working time compared to adults, i.e. they would also be allowed to work eight hours a day and 40 hours a week. I'm talking about non-school-mandatory or 17-year-olds. The Labour Inspectorate will continue to monitor the work of minors even if they do not work on the basis of an employment contract governed by the Employment Contracts Act. For example, we know that there are more debt-law contracts (managing contracts and employment contracts) with minors than with the rest of the working age. One of the reasons why they are being used more is that the employment contract law currently applicable to minors is very strictly limited and that, in order to circumvent these restrictions, debt law agreements are concluded with minors. Even now, the Labour Inspectorate has the right to classify debt-law contracts, which are in substance contracts of employment, as employment contracts. This will continue to be the case. We hope that with the simplification provided for in the draft, the general pressure to conclude debt-law contracts instead of employment contracts will be reduced anyway, but in any case the Labour Inspectorate will be entitled to do so. There will be additional leave for minors, although there were different ideas about this in different versions of the draft. Generally, minors do not make full use of it, as they do not work for a year, but usually for a short period of time and whether they have 28 or 35 days of rest does not make much difference. The Chancellor of Justice felt that minors should have longer leave, and that is why we have left it in the same way as it has been. Now I'm talking about on-call time. On-call time is also regulated in the Employment Contracts Act. There are no specific restrictions on on-call time under the current law, but its implementation must respect the possibility of using daily and weekly rest periods. This means that when a regular worker is employed full-time for eight hours, he must be guaranteed a half-hour's intraday rest period and 11 hours' daily continuous rest period, so-called night rest. If we do the calculations, it turns out that during on-call time it is possible to apply a person four and a half hours a day in addition to general working time, a week of 22.5 hours. The Ministry of the Interior had to propose to amend this regulation because of the IT authority of the Ministry of the Interior, the staff of SMIT, whose short standby periods do not sufficiently allow the essential functions of the State to be performed, i.e. there are not enough staff to ensure that the necessary infrastructure for the state functions. Consequently, in agreement with the various parties, we have offered that an exception could be introduced that could be implemented in the ICT sector. The exception is that the general rule of on-call time remains valid, as it is, but the employer and the employee can agree on a different arrangement for the on-call time, i.e. to agree on more on-call time if it is paid twice as much as what is currently provided for in the law. If, at present, the general rule is that at least 10% of normal pay is to be paid for on-call time, when an exemption is used and a longer application is made, 20% of the salary is to be paid for it. I would say precautionaryly that we have also been approached by other sectors that have wanted this exception to apply to their employees. Since these proposals were received at a rather late stage of the draft procedure, in order not to delay the draft procedure and to be able to implement the amendments concerning minors from this summer, the next major period of work for minors, we have not taken these proposals into account. However, I will say that the Ministry of Social Affairs is open to constructive discussions on whether more sectors should be covered here, or it is likely to be more reasonable, a certain general framework for exemptions from on-call time should be established, which would apply to all sectors once the conditions have been met. We are ready to do this work with the Riigikogu between two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U260	The first question to the minister is put by Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U261	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, According to the draft, an employer may conclude a contract of employment with a minor of 13 years in commercial or service establishments and in catering or accommodation establishments for the necessary ancillary work, but there is no such limit in the case of agricultural work, where a 13-year minor could be employed as if for all works. I look at the list of amendments that both the Child Welfare Association and the Estonian Youth Association have drawn attention to this and that they are quite concerned. Why are these restrictions not included in the draft for agricultural work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U262	If you look at the overall frame, I would stress once again that the list of prohibited works will in any case remain. If you dismantle this regulation, which provides for a list of prohibited works (i.e. Order No 94 of the Government of the Republic in 2009), you will see a whole series of restrictions that will remain in force and, in fact, very much restrict agricultural work. For example, § 5 says that it is prohibited to operate certain specific equipment and conditions that may harm minors. I am not an agricultural specialist, I cannot tell you exactly what agricultural relief work is and what is the main job. In the catering, I can imagine it more precisely. However, in any case, the principle must be fulfilled that the nature and nature of the work and the specific tasks of the work must in no way pose a risk to the health of minors. This is the fundamental principle behind the Labour Inspectorate's proceedings. If you look at the section that is here and to which you drew attention (section 1 (1) of the draft), you can see that point 41 (4) states that all other works corresponding to the corresponding paragraphs of the paragraph are allowed. That's not going to work out well in this bill. But the general logic remains that minors must not be used in health-dangerous and dangerous work. In general, we have moved in the direction of less predicting which sectors these jobs need to be in exactly, because we will never be able to regulate to the end what occupations can be worked in, nor will we ever be able to control exactly which occupations people work in. As has been said, there is a list of prohibited works that identifies the hazards against which minors must be protected. These are first physical hazards: vibration, noise level, high and low air temperature. The chemical risk factors are also a whole pile here, and then it describes different processes where minors are not allowed to work anyway. So the risk of minors being put into some kind of work in agriculture, for example, which they can figuratively cut off their finger, is grounded by a regulation on prohibited works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U263	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U264	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I suppose the differentiation of work during school and intermission is entirely the right direction. Certainly, I am not the only parent who is rather thirsty for these opportunities to be available more easily during school holidays. But maybe I don't see the other side of this, and that's why I'm asking you this. You've also been Minister of Education. How big is the problem in our schools that students work during school and are overtired? How far do you think this side of the problem is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U265	The statistics we know clearly tell us that they work mostly during school holidays, most of course they work during summer holidays. To a certain extent, they also work during the quarter, but then usually on weekends, or not after school day. If we look at the content of the proposals, we see that we are actually restricting the possibility of working for a quarter of school during extracurricular periods, i.e. weekends, compared to the current legislation. Of course, people work for various reasons, often because of poor financial conditions in the family, but learning is still the basic task of a minor of compulsory age. This is also important from a social point of view. The studies have come out recently, with a large survey of Estonian schoolchildren a few months ago, that Estonian schoolchildren are not sleeping enough. They don't sleep on recommended time during the week and then sleep on weekends that don't make sense from a health point of view. It makes sense to sleep full every day. But let's imagine if those kids at school who don't sleep enough during the week would go to work on the weekend and work for 5 to 6 hours. I'm sure that wouldn't make sense. But there aren't many young people like that. Most of them, by memory I say, almost 10,000 minors who work in Estonia during the year are still working in the summer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U266	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U267	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! My question coincides a little with Andres's question. Having been the head of the school for a long time, I know that according to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act of the Republic of Estonia, nine classes, or primary school, are compulsory education. I mean, relaxing and weakening the conditions for working during summer holidays is quite reasonable. Working in the evenings during school, or teaching quarters, is a bad decision or a very bad decision. One child lost is also too much for Estonia. You said that the restrictions of 13 to 14 years of age have been reduced, but the biggest dropout from primary school is precisely among the 13 to 14-year-olds. Is this law an attempt to alleviate students' problems with extracurricular times that the state has not been able to eliminate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U268	Thank you very much for your question. I read what's changed. I admit it was hard to track. I repeat that. For pupils aged 13 to 14 or school-mandatory students older than 13 to 14 years of age, in short, all school-mandatory pupils, including 13 to 14-year-olds, are currently allowed to work four hours a day and 20 hours a week. Now we differentiate it, and all school students are allowed to work seven hours on school holidays when they are over 13 years of age, but for a quarter of courses two hours a day. So we're actually shortening the working time allowed by two hours a day so that children can focus on teaching.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U269	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U270	...and hindsight can cost a lot of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the obligation of 13 to 14-year-olds to obtain prior authorisation from the Labour Inspectorate and to abolish it. The Alliance for Child Welfare and the Chancellor of Justice have pointed out that it may not be the most sensible thing to lose it for various reasons. However, violations have also occurred and have been identified by the Labour Inspectorate. For example, children of this age have been tried to employ them in unsuitable work, etc. Do you really think that this obligation to carry out prior checks on the Labour Inspectorate or the obligation to apply for this permit is correct? Every child is important...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U272	Yes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U273	Thank you very much. This is by nature a document-based ex-ante check or a permit application. Indeed, there have been isolated cases when the Labour Inspectorate has been given a description of the work that the law does not allow a minor to do and then has been brought to the attention of employers. Those who knowingly want to employ minors in forbidden work will probably be able to file these papers in a way that the Labour Inspectorate approves. So when we think about how much this licence obligation will affect the company to behave in one way or the other, it turns out that it does not fulfil this objective. However, this has partially met the objective that you pointed out, which is to raise awareness among employers: since they have had to apply for this permit, it has been possible to tell them that listen, this must not be done. Information must undoubtedly be continued. If this bill enters into force as a law, then it will certainly be the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Social Affairs, in cooperation with trade unions, childguards and also employers, will explain as well as they can what is permitted and what is not allowed for the work of minors. The bureaucratic procedure by which these prior authorizations are sought is not very reasonable. I have told the Labour Inspectorate that this resource, which is released from the processing of these applications, must be put into real procedures and be present in the fields, accommodation or catering establishments where minors work. I'm sure it'll do more good.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U274	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U275	Mr President! Dear Minister, Do you have any analysis at hand to answer this question, which in the eyes of the entrepreneur is above all these obstacles? I see this concern the other way around: why are minors not employed? There is certainly a need for inspection by the Labour Inspectorate, but there is also such an attitude that it is better to avoid trouble. Is there room for improvement to encourage entrepreneurs to recruit minors?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U276	Thank you very much. First of all, why are minors understaffed? One of the reasons is the same restrictions on working time. If the company in which minors may work has built up their work routine, their staffing records, for example, for shifts, then of course they count on full-time. When minors come to work, some of whom can work three hours a day, some four hours a day, a few six hours a day and a few seven hours a day, then you're gonna have a headache like that, because you have to make sure all the hours are full and the minors definitely don't go home in time or stay in work any longer, because then you're breaking the rules on the protection of minors, etc. The proposals to remove restrictions and reduce red tape have clearly been supported by employers. They have, to some extent, feared restrictions under the Employment Contracts Act. As I said at the beginning, there are a great deal of debt-law contracts with minors, i.e. labour contracts and labour contracts, which are in fact contracts of employment. However, in order to avoid all this time accounting, debt law agreements have been chosen for which there are no such obligations. We hope that by simplifying this, we will stop this trend and that minors will be more covered by employment contracts in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U277	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U278	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject raised by Monika Haukanõmme. It seems to me that when the Labour Inspectorate is asked for prior authorisation to recruit minors, it gives the Labour Inspectorate a clear overview of where minors work. This will give them a better opportunity to monitor, although this obligation will, of course, remain with them even after the adoption of this draft as a law. How does the Labour Inspectorate receive information where 13 to 14 years of age have been employed and which fields or accommodations should be monitored?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U279	That's the right question. Well, once that regulation was made, that was one of the reasons why it was decided to apply for their prior authorisation. Now there is a register of work in Estonia. All persons, including minors, who have taken up work, have been registered in this register before taking up their duties. In principle, it is possible to obtain this information from there. The Labour Inspectorate must start to do more "risk-based work" and see where minors work, assess which companies and which sectors have had problems in the past, look at previous complaints, and then more targeted monitoring work can be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U280	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U281	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is known to provide for the obligation to complete the ninth grade or comprehensive school. The responsibility is placed on parents. Why are primary school students now given the opportunity to go to work for two or three hours after school if they are no longer able to study for the next day? At the same time, the problem is that an awful lot of students are falling out of primary school. The state is not fully aware of this and is not looking for reasons why they will fall out. But one of the reasons why they fall out is that during out-of-hour periods of paid employment, a large proportion of minors are paid black for this work, because then these comrades sleep during their first hours. I can't imagine a teacher who has no heartfelt sympathy for children who are distracted and sleep the first hours because they had been working late at night. Why did you take the decision to allow middle school students to work freely after school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U282	Thank you. That decision was taken long before my time. As has been said, today, 13 to 14-year-olds can work four hours a day, even every day. Even every day, without any restrictions! With this draft, we will tighten the conditions and halve the length of time they are allowed to work a day, i.e. for a quarter of their tuition outside the study period, they will not be allowed to work more than two hours a day in the future. The situation is getting better. As has been said, the statistics do not confirm what you said about mass employment after school. Studies among students do not confirm this either. That students aren't sleeping well, the research confirms. But the reason for this is, in general, some other, entertaining circumstances and changes in family habits in Estonian families in recent years, but much less work is done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U283	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, NGO Child Welfare Association has been well involved in preparing the draft law. However, they have made it clear in the table of comments that all this draft needs to be discussed and discussed in public. What are the problems that they think are still here and need a big discussion and more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U285	As I said at the beginning, it is clear that this is a social compromise. We understand that there are child protection principles and the primacy of education. On the other hand, students themselves have a desire to acquire work habits and work experience, which is also a social will. With regard to relaxing conditions, such as working 13 to 14 years of age on school holidays for seven hours a day, there was indeed a debate as to whether the right is seven hours or six hours. This type of discussion was held. We have thought that we could come up with such an agreement right now. If the Child Welfare Association wishes to continue the debate on this subject, it is, of course, possible to do so between two readings in the Social Committee of the Riigikogu and we will be happy to work with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U286	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U287	Good manager! Good minister! The list of proposals includes a total of 25 proposals from the Child Welfare Association, the Estonian Trade Union Confederation, etc. Surprisingly, 17 of them, or the lion's share, have been rejected. For example, the Labour Inspectorate has said that the intention to develop does not take into account the requirements of a number of ILO conventions: minimum age for various jobs, child-inappropriate work, etc. However, the Child Welfare Association claims that suitable conventions are being used, but not the whole package. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U288	As far as I know, these positions have been harmonised today. Our clear position is that the draft complies with all Estonia's international obligations and is fully in line with the European Union directives. The former law was much stricter. If there are any other disputes, I expect the organisations concerned to bring these disputes before the members of the Riigikogu during the proceedings in the committee. But, as far as I know, the perceptions have been harmonised, which does not mean, of course, that we agree on every issue to the end.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U289	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U290	Thank you! Minister, thank you very much. My question is of a slightly more philosophical nature. In our laws, we treat people as children until the age of 18. At the same time, we are starting to impose almost the same obligations on non-school-mandatory minors already aged 15 to 17 in labour regulations as adults. Estonia has acceded to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and has agreed to its principles. Despite the fact that children may already look like completely large people at 15 or 17, even in growth and everything else, these are children who need additional protection. Don't you see a slight contradiction here? It's kind of a more philosophical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U291	I don't think you can. Of course, as a result of age, minors also have a corresponding development of cognitive and physical abilities. But do I think that the status of a minor or a child, if you call it that, precludes work or significantly restricts, for example, the possibility of a 17-year-old working for eight hours a day when he no longer goes to school? I think I'm not. They can work. I myself worked eight hours at that age, and it was perfectly manageable, nothing bad happened.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U292	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U293	Good manager! Good minister! My question is not philosophical, but practical. Tell me how many 12 to 14-year-olds really work during school and how many of them work blackly. Has there been any research?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U294	Thank you. I don't have that information about how many people work black. We assume no one works black, but it's probably true that some still work. But what concerns illegal employment is rather a question for the tax administration. I cannot immediately find the number of minors working in a specific age group and at what times. I can only repeat this statement that those who work during the quarter of school are very, very small. Most still work during breaks in general, but especially during summer holidays. So it's more like a few hundred students. But I do not dare to say the exact number because there are around 10,000 minors in annual employment and the majority of them have worked in breaks. We can figure that out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U295	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U296	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! Are there any analyses, statistics collected, surveys carried out or any data collected that would indicate that these legislative changes could alleviate the seasonal labour drought in certain sectors, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U297	Very little. In general, we are still talking about a few young people who are interested in working. We are not talking about the obligation to work, we are talking about the possibility for minors to work and employers to employ them more easily. Surely this is no magic wand against the lack of seasonal labour. To some extent, it does provide relief. Some entrepreneurs are also used to employ a very large number of minors, for example through chess, etc. The aim of the regulation is certainly not to explode in the employment of minors and to get everyone to work so as to alleviate labour shortages. However, to some extent it serves this purpose.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U298	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U299	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! I'm glad you mentioned student chess. It's a dignified organization. Student application websites run in minutes, the urge to do so is enormous, young people want to work. How do you think this law affects the existence of an Estonian student?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U300	It certainly broadens the chances of finding employers and finding employment for the Chevrons. With regard to the number of chess places and the financing of chess, this is a matter of the administration of the Ministry of Education and Research. On the basis of the Government's programme of action, the Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing proposals on how to encourage short-term or seasonal work of minors. These proposals will reach the government in the near future, but what specifically concerns the chess is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and the organisation of local governments in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U301	Igor Kravtšenko.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U302	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have heard different opinions, but since there was an opportunity to ask the Minister directly, I ask: what age is a child in the sense of Estonian law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U303	We have many different definitions. We have definitions of young people and we have definitions of different conventions. According to one law, young people between 20 and 26 years of age, defined by one European definition as up to 29 years of age, according to my memory, Statistics Estonia accounts for up to 24 years of age. We have a minimum age of 18 years, some child-related benefits are paid to persons up to the age of 19, the age of compulsory education is 17 years and the unemployment fund can register from the age of 16. I admit that the multiplicity of regulations and age groups is confusing. The Ministry of Social Affairs has identified all the age ranges for receiving benefits and we are trying to move towards creating some common categories in future legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U304	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U305	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I am interested in the same question posed by my colleague, Mart Helme. But I'm gonna put it on my feet and ask how much this law, and even getting young people and children to work, would enrich the range of services offered. I'm not just talking about ice cream salesmen on the beach, because there might be other smart solutions. Is there such a positive picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U306	Thank you. I can't answer that question. You will certainly be able to discuss this with employers. They'll probably be able to give you a better answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U307	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U308	Thank you. As a student veteran, I ask again about the student chess. Currently, young people working in the student chess are "double-taxed." They pay social tax from their service, even though minors are covered by their parents' social tax. Are you willing to consider exempting students from social tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U309	That's what I was trying to refer to. It's been a long story. The logic of health insurance, as well as pension insurance, in which social tax is used, does not have such a substantive argument, and I do not believe that the argument that they should be exempted from one or the other part of the social tax is still competent. In this case, we should say that, for example, pensioners who work should not pay social tax, because they are persons treated as health-insured persons and their children pay social tax for them. The general logic is, however, that when a person works and earns income, he pays social tax on it. I would rather not cling to social tax differences, but to whether the state still needs to motivate employers to employ minors more. The Ministry of Social Affairs is preparing its proposals on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U310	The questions for you are over. Thank you, good waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U311	I'm just saying, please don't complain to the Prime Minister, but I have to get my kid out of kindergarten in ten minutes, because the kindergarten is shut down. So, unfortunately, I cannot be in the Chamber until the end of this debate. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U312	If you need to pick up your child, of course we understand that very well. However, the presentation by the committee is the presentation by Barbi Pilvre, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, requested by the panel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U313	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, on his way to kindergarten! In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws was discussed on 9 January. The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. Mr Randpere was absent from the commission and Mr Sults and Mr Kravchenko were present as alternates. Once again, I will give a brief overview of the bill, because there are so many nuances. At the meeting of the Commission, the Minister of Health and Labour presented the content and objectives of the draft Act amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws. The amendments to be made concern the work authorised for minors, the application for a permit from the Labour Inspectorate for the work of minors, the working time of minors and the daily rest period. In addition, the exemption for on-call time is provided for specialists providing IT support services. The aim of the draft is to modernise the regulation of the working conditions of minors in such a way as to allow for more flexible employment relations while, of course, ensuring protection in employment relations. The circumstances are that our current regulation is stricter than that of European Union legislation. The law seeks to bring these requirements into line with EU legislation by mitigating them. The current law does not provide attractive opportunities for employers; minors are reluctant to hire, not even for the jobs they are actually able to do. Finding a job can be difficult. The draft removes the list of work authorised for minors and the obligation to apply to the Labour Inspectorate for a contract of employment with a minor of 13 to 14 years of age. The obligation will certainly remain in force when a minor is between 7 and 12 years of age. The draft amends the provisions on working time for minors in such a way that, in the case of school-mandatory minors, a distinction is made between working time within the teaching quarter and working time during school holidays and longer working time for non-school-mandatory minors aged 15 to 17 years. Secondly, the draft amends the on-call time regulation contained in the Employment Contracts Act, which concerns in particular the work of specialists providing IT support services, in particular the implementation of on-call time. The aim of the amendment is to allow for on-call time regulation taking into account the specificities of the ICT sector in order to ensure the provision of the service. The most important target group of the draft is therefore non-compulsory minors aged 15 to 17 who are most affected by the changes and whose job opportunities are to be improved. In addition, the amendments concern minors aged 13 to 14 and their employers and employees and employers in the ICT sector. The Ministry wants the discussions to be concluded before the end of the spring session, so that the law can enter into force quickly and already this summer minors will be able to start working under the new law if they so wish. The debate was quite lively. Jaanus Karilaid took the floor and was answered mainly by Counsellor of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Liis Tõnismaa, who explained, among other things, which restrictions would remain in force. For example, there is a very comprehensive list of prohibited works since 2009, which is currently and will remain valid. The Hatter asked if the bill was about taxes. The Minister explained that taxes will not be dealt with in the framework of this draft, but the Ministry intends to present proposals on health insurance in the coming months. Külliiki Kübarsepp also wanted to know whether the Ministry intends to regulate the employment of minors in catering establishments for the sale of alcohol. Councillor Liis Tõnismaa explained that restrictions on alcohol-related work stem from the Alcohol Act and will, of course, remain in force. March Sults wondered if the supervision measures were effective. Liis Tõnismaa thought that the Labour Inspectorate could enhance targeted control. Mr Pevkur supported the draft under discussion and considered that exceptions to on-call time could also be allowed more widely and discussed in society, including within the Commission, with stakeholders. Jaanus Karilaid noted that the Estonian Trade Union Confederation does not support the participation of 13-year-olds in agricultural work. Liis Tõnismaa explained that the Employment Contracts Act allows minors to perform light jobs that match their abilities and are not physically or mentally burdensome. Mr Ossinovski finally said at the end of the debate that what was proposed in the draft was a compromise between the demands of the various parties, and he expressed the same point when speaking here. Jevgeni Ossinovski brought out a very interesting fact at the end of the debate, answering Mr Sults' question about the benefits for the state of underage work. The answer was that minors up to 16 years of age earned a total salary of EUR 1750000 during the course of 2016 working under an employment contract, and the State also receives tax revenue from that amount. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 8 February. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U314	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks for the waitress! Do the political groups want to negotiate? Please, Külliiki Hatter on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U315	Good vice chairman! Good ambassadors! I'll try to be quick. The Free Party Group very much welcomes the revision of the regulation of youth work in order to give young people more opportunities to get work habits and work experience during extracurricular periods. It is also important to create a sense of responsibility in young people. People who have worked at a young age are certainly more enterprising later in life because they are used to initiating things themselves and carrying things out on their own. That's very positive. Unfortunately, there has been a period in our history when we put young people in such a glass box that they, for God's sake, shouldn't do anything. But I do not think that this can go on because society has evolved and is increasingly encouraging the progress of a successful young person. I call on the Ministry, as well as the committees, to think about whether we can introduce tax exemptions for young people, for example, who want to take part in this legal responsibility. I recall that in Saaremaa, a 15-year-old young person registered as a self-employed person to be a successful and good farmer. There were problems in paying social tax. One might think that we would also have forms of student companies, and the entrepreneurship and responsibility of young people should be encouraged. What do we want to warn about, or what do we think we should think about? Labour inspectors should certainly not intimidate employers. It has been pointed out here that people no longer have to fill out written applications, but, above all, that the Labour Inspectorate is expected to visit and control more companies. After all, many entrepreneurs actually feel that responsibility. I imagine that young people in the construction sector would rather not be employed because they know that this responsibility is much greater. As representatives of our country, we should think about how entrepreneurs can be more motivated to recruit young people, how to educate and encourage them in this matter. When an entrepreneur recruits a young person, he or she bears double responsibility. First of all, he trains this young person and carries on certain patriotism in our society. Thank you for raising the subject. We hope that we will find further motivating measures so that young people can enter employment and gain work experience and start new businesses themselves, but that entrepreneurs are also prepared to offer this opportunity to young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-18_U316	Thank you. Any more calls? No, it's not. Then I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 356. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 356 amendments at 4 p.m. on 8 February. Today's trial is over. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 6 p.m.
