ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U1	Good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! There are currently 38 members of the Riigikogu in Question Time. The Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Jüri Luik, Minister of Defence, and Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration are members of the Government of the Republic. Now, can I have your attention, please? Since yesterday five members of the Riigikogu expressed their wish to ask a question, today I am giving the opportunity to ask two questions that are more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U2	Let's get started. The first questioner is Mart Helme and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U3	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! As we know, Estonia has made one of the priorities under the Presidency of the European Union the promotion of our digital experiences and, let us say, the promotion of digital services and the digital state in the European Union at large. I think Estonia did relatively well in this task. At the same time, however, we had a serious problem with our ID card. They showed that there are still quite a number of bottlenecks in our digital domain. Here's my question. Has the government drawn its own conclusions from all of this and will it continue to pay more attention to a coordinated and robust solution to bottlenecks instead of simply continuing with propaganda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Honourable questioner, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question and also for your recognition for the success of the Estonian Presidency and the progress of the digital sphere. It is true that one of Estonia's priorities under the Presidency has been digital society, e-services and that we really see how these e-solutions, which we have in Estonia are everyday and tangible, would also become trans-national. This is indeed now where Estonia needs to take certain steps. I am sincerely pleased to share with you that the first digital summit of the European Union really took place in Tallinn. We can see that what was said at the digital meeting on 29 September is also very strongly embedded in the conclusions of the European Council. The second half of your question • the risks and risks that have emerged here from the topic of the digital society and are primarily linked to the ID card. First of all, I would like to say that the Police and Border Guard Board and the State Information System Authority have certainly done a very good operational job. I commend them for that. It is also true that this has been a great lesson for us. We have agreed in the Government of the Republic that both agencies will have to report the case and present their detailed proposals next year at the beginning of February, which will be changed in the light of this lesson. In any case, the credibility and openness of e-services and of the digital society are the most important of all. Surely there must be a great deal to contribute to cyber security. These are the areas that will be analysed and decided by the Cabinet at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U5	Mart Helme, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U6	Thank you. Currently, information has come to the public via the media as if the Estonian authorities, including the Police and Border Guard Board, had been informed about the possible security risk of the ID card in June. Now, there have been very conflicting signals about this. Did those signals come back in June? Perhaps they were not directly addressed to our Police and Border Guard Board, but were indirect through other countries using a similar ID-card solution to us. Or did the official information actually arrive at the end of August? What is your information now for us in this Chamber of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U7	Thank you for this important question. I think it is entirely legitimate to give the Riigikogu and also the Estonian public a response from an open position, from an open point of view. If I may, we agree that I will mention in my response the risk that arose, say, in August and raised by the problem found by Czech scientists. What you mention has indeed been going through the press in mid-June, perhaps on 15 June. I personally have taken the matter up from both authorities, the State Information System Authority and the Police and Border Guard Board. It is true that, of course, agencies have been informed of various security risks or threats. There must have been over 30 such notifications. And it's also true that our contract, our legal contract, is with Gemalto. We've got a fixed record of how we're supposed to report threats. Now, I come to what I said in my introduction to this directive, and let us agree that we are talking about the security risk that Czech scientists have discovered. No such notification has been made either to the RIA or to the Police and Border Guard Board. I have asked the directors of both agencies whether this has been notified, for example, on 15 June or June. The answer is: it has not been there. The answer has been as you said at the end of your question. Yes, the security risk report found by Czech scientists came at the end of August and started to be dealt with immediately. I was on an outside mission at the time, and I found out about it on Friday. On Sunday the first meeting was already held, and on Monday the government gathered for a six-seven-hour meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U8	Mart Helme, the second point to clarify.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U9	Thank you. I will return to the second part of my first question and I will now ask you this. You also have a Secretary of Defense, to whom, unfortunately, I do not see any questions being asked. My question, however, is essentially for both of you. As it has turned out with regard to the ID card that the Estonian state may fall victim to a massive cyber attack and that it may also affect our defence capabilities and our security in general, does the government intend to initiate developments in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence and the NATO Cyber Defence Centre in order to make Estonia's response faster, stronger and perhaps more effective if such risks are repeated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U10	Thank you also for this question, a good member of the Riigikogu. As far as I know, the procedure by which members of the Riigikogu can always ask questions to the members of the government in Question Time and must be sent by Tuesday afternoon. But if there is any time left today, I believe that the Chairman of the Riigikogu will allow you to ask other questions. There's no way I can give the Minister of Defense the floor right now. This is not a home and running opportunity. What I don't have, I can't ask you to run here either. But I'm trying, as far as I can, to convey my senses. Of course, when we talk about cyber security, which I also mentioned, I believe that there must be such a principle in society that cyber security is always one step ahead, not behind, but ahead of, any kind of e-service or e-solution. The word 'cyberhygiene' is also widely used in Estonian, but basically we think the same thing. When we talk about the NATO Cyber Defence Centre, which is in Tallinn, we have now, of course, experienced much more in attacks than we did a decade ago. We have much more knowledge, we are much better prepared. I didn't say it as a mouthpiece, but we have a fixed decision at the cabinet meeting that the Police and Border Guard Board and the State Information System Authority must make very concrete proposals to be even better prepared in the future. After all, we hold our most expensive assets, the data of our people, and this must be done in a very, very responsible manner by the country. The level of security must not just be high, but super high. I am absolutely convinced that cooperation in our country, and if necessary also outside, with our allies and specialists, will be much closer and much better in future in order to minimise such risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U11	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Prime Minister! It is quite natural that the digital summit was held in Tallinn. If it hadn't happened, I should have asked what happened. I did not hear, however, that there were very many references to rural and agricultural issues in your Presidency speeches. In the context of the digital meeting, was the processing and linking of certain data on agriculture and rural areas with environmental protection etc. also under discussion? This is one of the most important topics in Estonia and in other countries. I did not notice that this issue had been addressed. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U13	Thank you. Well, let's come back to yesterday, then, but it's okay. Indeed, in this sense, I agree with you that where this digital meeting should have taken place if not in Tallinn and during the Estonian Presidency. The answer is that neither it had been established at the beginning of this year nor at the end of last year. The negotiations had to be held, and so many people from Estonian authorities did. I would also like to pass on here, thanks to my fellow Members from the European Union, to the Heads of State or Government of other countries, that this was the case. The President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, has certainly made a huge contribution to this, who really did everything to move forward with the digital issues, and saw that the best way to do this is if the meeting takes place right here. It should be said that, in fact, the meeting was even longer on Thursday, on the evening of 28 September, the leaders met and discussed the Leaders Agenda and its future for the first time. Now, rural, agricultural and its digitisation are a very important issue. Has this been discussed? Yeah, it's been discussed. I immediately remembered, for example, that I was scribbling up a conference on soils, where the digital approach was very important. Rural and agricultural areas, of course, were also the focus of our Presidency. The Minister of Rural Affairs often led the meetings and gave an overview of the meetings of the Government of the Republic's Cabinets of the Council level, whether non-formal and informal here in Tallinn or also in Europe. So the answer to you is, you don't have to worry. This area was also seriously focused and several international conferences took place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U14	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! We were clear from your response that this acute security risk we were dealing with in the case of an ID card was announced in August. But my point is this: did any information or any letter to the PBA from Andreas Lehmann, Gemalto's representative, or rather the former representative, be received on 15 June or not? If so, what was its contents?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U16	Thank you, good questioner. I have to admit that I really do not manage the e-mail exchange of the entire Estonian government; it is not my job. Could correspondence have taken place between RIA and Gemalto in June, for example, or between PB and Gemalto? I guess there must have been some e-mails, all kinds of mails. The question is whether this security risk or threat was reported, which was discovered by Czech scientists. My answer is this, and I have asked the directors of both agencies very specifically, that there has been no information about this threat in June, July or May 2017. As far as I know, the first information reached Estonia on the night of August 31st. So, yes, on this subject, both agencies confirm that Estonia has not been informed in the past. We also have, as I said, a legal agreement between Gemalto and the Police and Border Guard Board, where it is firmly fixed how such notifications must take place. This applies in a specific way and in a specific form. However, there has been no other form of notification of this threat in this area. If you don't mind, I'll give you an update on what you've done in half a minute. As of today, more than 300,000 ID-card certificates have been updated, i.e. more than one third of all cards at security risk have now been updated. Lawyers of the Police and Border Guard Board will certainly continue to work on claims for damages against our contract partner Gemalto, who supplied security-risk ID-cards to Estonia. In my opinion, this information must, in any case, be brought here before the composition of the honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U18	The next question will be asked by Liina Kersna and will be answered by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration. Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, The Riigikogu has adopted a number of laws which impose new tasks on local governments. As an opposition, we have always asked whether local authorities are familiar with new tasks and whether they are ready for new tasks. It seems to me, a month before the turn of the year, that there is quite a mess in many local governments. Many do not know what new tasks are assigned to them, not to mention being prepared. As the former Head of Communication of the Government, I know that if responsibility falls between so-called several chairs, it could be a very big mess. How have local authorities been informed about the new tasks assigned to them and who is responsible for this in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U20	Thank you for your question, Honourable Asker. Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! There is now a good opportunity to talk once again about this process, which will reach a certain sign on 1 January 2018. County governments will complete their work in all counties. The preparations have been going on since, or even before, the law was passed in June. The tasks were delegated either to public authorities or to local authorities. If you look at who's responsible for the whole process, yes, the Minister of Public Administration is responsible. This is his area of administration and he must ensure that the transition takes place smoothly. At least there's a coordination role. In fact, the law states which functions go by area to ministries and institutions when we talk about the central government of the country. I have really dealt with this, I have talked to local authorities and rural government workers in all county visits. Two mandatory meetings have taken place and I have been keeping an eye on this process all along, as have my administrative staff. I guess we're gonna have to deal with the problems. This is, of course, a major change and no one is saying that it is easy or that it is clear to everyone now. I do believe that, by this point, as you have just said, a month is left, the global functions have been taken over. As regards the development function, say, regional or regional development, it is one of the major functions that goes to municipalities. The relevant decisions have been made in the municipalities. There are currently two counties that will decide in the near future, but in principle these decisions have been made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U21	Liina Kersna, the first question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U22	Thank you for your answer. One thing really is that rural governments disappear and, on that basis, assignments are distributed. But we have several other draft laws adopted here in the Riigikogu, where local governments are given additional tasks in addition to the reform of rural governments. I offer you the arena. Maybe you'll have a quick overview of which tasks will be transferred to local authorities from when to when.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U23	Thank you for your question. There's quite a lot of these tasks when you start detailing them all. But I might mention the most important ones that are probably the most interesting to the local resident who actually receives the service. As is certainly known, municipalities will be transferred to a function such as organising public transport, which will also require quite a lot of money. For this purpose, municipalities have established public transport centres, partly in every county and partly in several counties. The largest is likely to be the Harjumaa Public Transport Centre. This is, financially speaking, one of the most important tasks that will be transferred from the county government to the municipalities and carried out together. The municipalities of each county decide together which public transport centre they carry out this task. Demographic activities. There's been a lot of talk about it here. It may not be a big deal in terms of volume, but it's a very important thing for every person who wants to know where he can do his thing. For example, people ask where they can get married. It's agreed, the municipalities of the county centres are taking over this function, and we're already solving detailed matters. For example, there is a palace of happiness in Tartu. We propose that it go to the city then, because then this symbolic building will continue to have the same function. Public health development issues, which had so far been managed by the county government, are also shifted into joint actions by municipalities, in particular regional development. The municipality will prepare the next county development plan by 1 January 2019. This is one of the tasks to be carried out with content, which must certainly be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U24	Liina Kersna, second point, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U25	Thank you very much. I understand from your answers that there will be no systematic information about the new tasks of local authorities. But given that I am a member of the Social Affairs Committee, I know that in the social field, many tasks have also been assigned to local governments. Maybe you'll call them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U26	Thank you for your question. I do not agree with your assessment that the local authorities have not been informed. Even before the law was passed, local authorities have been kept informed of their transposition obligations. I've really been at municipal meetings. Everyone knows exactly what needs to be done, what decisions must be made and what functions will be transferred. I've never heard of anyone who doesn't know. We have done information days and trainings even after the elections. In the meantime, the municipalities were faced with a kind of double burden, as they had to organise their own structures and, at the same time, decide on the tasks to be taken over. Most of the decisions were taken before the elections; they were already made by former councils. Now I don't see any problems anywhere between two chairs. Whether this is done by a public authority, if the law so decides, or by the municipality. In any case, everyone has knowledge of this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! It is certainly also part of regional policy which means that local governments have to carry out their tasks and how the state tries to support them, cooperate. I really do not understand why the old ERM building in Tartu is going to go on so long and what stump it sits behind in the government that it cannot be solved. Tartu has also expressed its financial wish. I think that, in certain cases, the state could make state assets available to the local government even without this so-called financial contribution. However, I do not understand at all that there is not even a decision on how to proceed. There are plenty of needs in the city of Tartu, such as planning older activities and improving their environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U29	Thank you for your question. The public is also concerned about the old ERM building. In fact, it was prepared for a public auction at some point in time. The previous Minister of Public Administration canceled this auction somewhere in the middle of the process. Now there is a place to decide again and the wishes of the municipality should certainly be taken into account. Like I said, there was an object that went through. Tiigi 12 has now been decided as requested by the city of Tartu, so the city of Tartu receives this building. This is the lucky palace of Tartu. The city of Tartu has also requested a rural government building, but since there is still a need for space due to the relocation of state agencies, we have said in this particular case that we cannot give it. There is also an old application for ERM building. As far as I know, the council has decided that they are willing to pay a certain amount of money. This issue is up in the cabinet, and I very much hope that this decision will be made in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U30	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U31	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! From the new year, a new regional administration department will start operations at the Ministry of Finance in connection with the winding-up of the county government. Please introduce a little bit of how this is going to work physically. Is there a new minimal government at the Tallinn Ministry, in some regional centers, or is there now a minimal government in every county?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U32	Thank you for a good question. From 1 January there will be a regional administration service in each county. It sounds so big and proud, like half the house is full of people. However, the fact is that the people working in this department, as I said here, are carrying out the tasks that the Ministry of Finance is taking over from the same rural governments. There's a plan function. There is an archival function, with content in the Ministry of the Interior, but it has been decided that the staff are in this department. There are also local government advisors, although not in every county, there are seven, so a couple of counties apart from one, whose job is located somewhere in the county centre service. In addition, the Head of Service shall be appointed. So three to nine employees when we look at different counties. The offices will be formed according to the volume of work and will be located in the county centres, not in Tallinn. Therefore, only the head of department is likely to remain in Tallinn; all employees are located in county centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U33	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U34	Next, Ain Lutsepp will ask Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please, Ain Lutsepp!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! The protection of the population as part of national defence begins with each person and his or her awareness. But we have little done in this area. People's protection cannot or will not be properly spoken or communicated. The concept of public protection is not legally regulated. There is no designated management body for the implementation of public protection, which requires serious cooperation between almost all ministries. The tasks related to the protection of the population are not defined as defence-related. It is not clear who is responsible for the protection of the population in the event of security threats. We have a population protection task force, and his report should appear at the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U37	The question is: what has been achieved, what are the results and what will be the future course of action?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U38	Thank you. The final phase of the operating phase has been reached. There have been many bilateral meetings. Currently, the Head of the Population Protection Task Force is writing a final concept of population protection based on these same bilateral meetings and feedback received. I fully agree with you. Point 1, this awareness, which you emphasised, is very important. Point 2, of course, it is always a question of resources. Point 3, communication strategy is also very important. You asked what the plan was. The future plan is very specific. We hope that by the end of this year the concept of the final document will reach the Government's Cabinet meeting. As far as it is known, when the government launched the Task Force by decision of 3 December 2015, the work of this Task Force was fixed at the deadline of November 2017. The current government has also provided for a task force to be set at the end of December 2017 in its 2016-2019 programme so that the maturity rates are more or less similar. We are now waiting for the task force leader to bring this concept to the cabinet meeting. From there, decisions can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U39	Ain Lutsepp, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U40	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! The Ministry of Defence's budget is known to fall by EUR 10 million. You mentioned here the resources needed to protect the population, how to say, to carry out the task force's work and so on. Please tell me where the EUR 10 million will go. They could, after all, be used by local authorities to launch community protection information activities, programmes and things necessary to meet the immediate needs of the population.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U41	Thank you very much. I think, like you, I have a lovely school under the beautiful pine trees of Nõmme, whether it's the 10th of Tallinn. High school or Nõmme Upper Secondary School. I've studied math there, just like you. In mathematics it is said that the sum does not depend on the order of the additions. You asked where the $10 million went. I can assure you there are 10 million. This plan is much bigger, it's six times bigger. The coalition said it wanted to put 60 million into the defence sector for additional investments in 2018, 2019 and 2020. I would argue that, if the sum of these three years was added up, it was 60 million on 23 November 2016, when this coalition took office, and that is as much on 6 December 2017. I understand what you're trying to do, of course, but the answer is very simple. The answer is this: the country makes an accruals budget. And the question is that if we make any investments, we can either realise these investments, the service we receive or the product we receive, in this case, into ammunition goods or not. The current knowledge is such that its ammunition is likely to be realised by the State as a commodity by the beginning of 2019. So it's not 20, 20 and 20, it's 10, 30 and 20. So there's no need to worry, there's no reason to worry, there's still 60 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U42	Ain Lutsepp, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! My question now concerns the local authorities. Rural governments were known to be responsible for national defence matters. Please tell me how the current local governments have evolved, which are still being created or already created! What national defence tasks fall within the competence of the new authorities to meet the immediate needs of the population in the event of crisis situations, say, security situations, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U44	Thank you for that question. In the case of local governments, when you asked whether anything would change now, I want to say that the level of local authorities in the protection of the population has been important all along, even before the same reform of local governments. I myself have been the head of a local government. Here is the former mayor of Tartu, who, of course, also knows this matter very well. Local authorities have always paid as much attention as possible to the protection of the population. The truth is, when we come back to resources, there are municipalities that have had more capacity, and there are those who have had less. How is this information for the same population in certain crisis situations? I think the local government, which cooperates with the police, the state structures and the Ministry of Defence, has a huge role to play here. We take all kinds of disasters, natural disasters or, let's say, difficult natural conditions. The role of local government is extremely important for the protection of the population. I have seen for myself what this role is when we talk about certain accidents, such as major explosions, apartment buildings, where evacuation of households, accommodation for people, catering for them, etc. Local authorities have always been very closely involved in the protection of the population and will continue to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U45	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U46	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Prime Minister! I got a little confused about Nõmme's math. A good colleague, Mr Hanso, has already raised a question and said that he will not vote in favour of the state budget if it does not come back to the 10 million. I ask if my good colleague correctly understood that he did not get an answer to the question of where the 10 million will go this year, which next year should be 30 instead of 20. It is already higher in mathematics, but suddenly you explain to us members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U47	Thank you. This 60 million is still going for defence investments, the defence sector. You don't need any higher math here. No cents from this field will go anywhere else. Now, the truth is, if, for some reason, the Ministry of Defence says at one point, for example, that you see the procurements have been made, the analyses have been done, and the readiness is there to take such a theoretical situation, so that we can obtain ammunition in 2018, but there is no budget line, then the government will always have the opportunity to come to the aid. Thanks to you. If you accept the state budget in the Riigikogu, you will also foresee reserves. There's always a chance. There is no need to fear that the volume of defence investments will decrease. On the contrary. This extension of mine, which I have just said, will in certain cases provide an opportunity even to increase it. But the truth is that, compared to the previous situation, let's say, a year or two ago, if there was no mention of additional investments in the defence sector, you probably agree that this was not discussed at the time, the current coalition has really talked about this. And not only talked about, but also accounted for 60 million additional in 2018 and 2019 and 2020 budgets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U48	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I would like to continue with this last question of Ain Lutsep about the role of local authorities, especially given that other ministers are sitting next to you. No one doubts that this role is great, but the question is how it is reflected in the law. We have also put forward a specific proposal by the COKS concerning tasks in the event of evacuation. We have questioned the former Minister of State Administration, Mr Korb, who said that they would come sometime later. Is it more or less clear now how local government's tasks in the area of population protection will be reflected in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U50	Thank you. I have already answered very specifically, but I will also tell you that there is no obstacle here, so that it cannot be made more concrete and clearer even on the legal ground. Now let's wait for one step. The government modestly asks, honourable Riigikogu, before you, to allow us to work on this subject first. If a change to a certain legislative base is needed, I see no problem here, but let's not get ahead of ourselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U52	Asks Arno Bridge, answers the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The government recently discussed moving state agencies out of Tallinn. Today, too, it has been stressed that the most important thing about all reforms is the person himself. I'd ask like that. Did you now go to the government with a definite plan, who has to move out with the institution, or who gets rid of the work they've done so far, and so on? After all, there are many other problems associated with this subject, such as schools where children are going to study in a new place or kindergartens. In some cases, even spouses' jobs are at issue, etc. How have people been informed about these reorganisations now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U54	Thank you for your question. The question is topical. I've also been asked if there's anything finished and if some stage is over. It's a continuous process, I've been emphasising it all along. It is a fundamental decision to move in this direction more forcefully, because, in fact, there has been the continuous creation of certain positions in the rural area, but there are reasons for doing so more systematically and vigorously. First of all, state-paid jobs disappear at more or less the same rate from both Tallinn and rural areas. If we take the last year and a half, 800 jobs in the state sector have been lost in Tallinn, the public sector has narrowed down, optimized for 600 places in rural areas. This 800 places in Tallinn does not worry me so much, because the labour market situation is relatively good in the capital; these people also find work quite quickly. But it's more complicated in rural areas. The presence of the state and the presence of state-paid jobs in the regions is important; this position has been taken by the government. That's why we're working on this process, and that's why I'm coordinating it. Specific proposals are made by ministries. Yesterday I took a mid-term review, a mid-term report, which says that according to current plans, by the end of 2019, either part of the jobs, decisions have already been taken or specific plans have been approved, according to which more than 1000 jobs will actually leave Tallinn. What is important in this regard? The important thing is that they were more even. So if you think that this is all and this process is over, then that is definitely not the case. The process continues, this was also the Government Office's desire yesterday, and it needs to be further worked on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U55	Arno Bridge, the first question to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Here's the question. Are these reforms and reorganisations to some extent involving cities other than Tallinn, or are we talking about this reform project only about Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U57	Thank you for your question. When we talk about where specifically to take jobs out of, we talk about moving out of the capital because there is the highest concentration of authorities here. In fact, the current gap is also known, and this is also the case when many ministries and institutions have made their decisions and to which county centres these jobs are moving from Tallinn. Let's say the project can be divided into two parts. There are such institutions and units that go from Tallinn to a specific county centre, and there are also few jobs under different agencies. More and more are asked about multifunctional jobs and that there is currently room left in some of the buildings of rural government that are closed. This project of state buildings, which should bring together the location of state institutions in county centres, must also be carried by me. So these two processes can, in fact, be combined in this respect, so that jobs can be placed on released surfaces. After all, one reason is that with the break-up of rural governments, there will be fewer jobs, with an estimated 150 people losing their jobs. Some of the employees who were in rural governments do not move to public authorities or local authorities. There is certainly one reason why people are asked whether there are competent people to recruit in these institutions. Experience shows that nearly 25% of the people from Tallinn go with the institutions to be removed and 75% are found on site. All institutions shall operate by those who have left the territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U58	Arno Bridge, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U59	President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. It's like the Ministry of Education is moving back to Tallinn in a creepy way. Are you confirming this, or are you denying my suspicions? Here you go!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U60	Thank you for your question. I have been asked that question, too, and I have also asked the Minister of Education and Research. There are certainly individual transfers within each ministry, and it is probably also the case in the Ministry of Education and Research. There is certainly no mass moving from Tartu to Tallinn. On the contrary, the Ministry of Education and Research has announced in the framework of the decision to remove state institutions that they will not even have jobs from Tallinn to Tartu, but will go to other places. So I don't dare say there should be a reverse trend. But yesterday, I was delighted in the government office that there was a full consensus. I don't know, this responsibility is, of course, very great, which is now falling on me. However, it was decided that, when public authorities and ministries reorganise their institutions, they would be reorganised, and if this means losing or reducing jobs in rural areas, these plans would have to be coordinated with the Minister of State Administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! I listened to your interview today. You spoke there about the jobs being taken to Tartu in connection with the processing of statistical data, and you indicated that there was a highly educated human resource there. Here comes my next question. Many professors also live in the new Elva municipality. Is it hoped that a job requiring higher education could also be planted there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U63	Thank you for your question. I understand the interest in the municipality of Elva. Not excluded. At the moment, I don't see that in this mapping, but in many counties there have always been talk about county centres, and actually, part of the jobs could still be talked about more broadly in the county. For example, in Lääne-Virumaa, there are jobs going to Rakvere, as well as Sagadi. As far as Pärnumaa is concerned, it is not easy to get used to that Lihula is also in Pärnumaa, but state-paid jobs go to both Pärnu and Lihula. We'll have to take a broader look. Such smaller cities and centres could certainly also find a way to place employees in public institutions there. When we are talking about the project of public buildings, the idea has actually been, first and foremost, that the county centre should have a state building that brings together the services and institutions that people need most and most at this level. Why don't you do something like that in a town a little bigger than a county center? For example, the unemployment fund has a representation in other centres than the county centres. You could think about that in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U64	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Any move in the workplace really means moving people. For a person, it's either a job loss or a relocation, it's not just moving one button. My question to you is that the Folk Culture Centre, which has worked perfectly and has actually been a centre of continuing education for the whole country and all counties and a centre of preserving the entire tradition of folk art, has been wanted to move to Viljandi, Paide. The honourable Minister of Culture told me here last time that the Ministry of Finance and you will decide where this centre will move to. Where are they taking the Folk Culture Center?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U66	Thank you for your question. I must say that the official and final decision-maker is still the Minister of Culture. But, of course, I admit that it needs to be viewed in the wider picture as we watched in the government yesterday, how the institutions are moving and to which county centres they are moving. Viljandi has been proposed in relation to the People's Culture Centre. In my opinion, one of the most logical places in terms of background is Viljandi, however, if we are talking about leaving Tallinn at all. The administration of the Ministry of Finance, i.e. also my administration, is in fact to explore what opportunities exist, say, spatially and in real estate, to encourage removal. That's what I've been doing. All the problems we've been through to date, in principle, and also proposed solutions, but the decision is now to make the Minister of Culture. Although I think that this table also contains a conditional decision that the Folk Culture Centre is going to Viljandi. Now all we need is an official document from the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U67	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U68	Asks Jüri Adams, answers the Minister of Public Administration Jaak Aab. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U69	Mr. Minister! I don't know if you've noticed, but the electoral boundaries have grown recently in the 2019 elections. Now that the new borders of municipalities and counties have at least temporarily stabilised, figures are needed to fulfil this task. First of all, how many people by local government units there are not only residents, but electoral citizens, i.e. Estonian citizens over 18 years of age plus citizens of the European Union. Unfortunately, I have not been able to find any statistical data on this anywhere. The website of Statistics Estonia contained just a few clues about the change in the number of county residents. Can you tell me if this data is out there or how we can get to it as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U70	Thank you for your question. Yes, the changes are relatively recent. I have dealt with the issue of map data. In fact, the Land Office had a new map relatively quickly after the local elections. The Land Office was the coordinator who ran all the data into the registers, and then the information moved on to other relevant institutions. As far as the population is concerned, it is, I believe, currently found on the website. Local authorities also exist on the website of the Ministry of Finance. You can also look at the map of the Earth Administration, where the new borders and the number of inhabitants are precisely fixed. With regard to the number of inhabitants, if you would like, as you said, to look at this in the context of the next elections, the average size of new municipalities by the number of inhabitants is now 17118 and the median, half of which are larger and half smaller, is 7865. The average is raised by larger cities, as we know. When it comes to voters, I did not really find precise statistics in this regard myself. Such orienting information, however, is that in the elections to the Riigikogu, an average of 12,000 voters in the local government can be predicted once again if we take the average government. If we take the median, or the one half of which is smaller and half larger, there will be 5,500 voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U71	George Adams, the first question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U72	Thank you. Mr. Minister! This is not a statistical problem; it is a problem of absolute numbers, where there may also be some errors. Perhaps it does not have to be ten to the accuracy, but in general, the picture is that one Riigikogu mandate comes about 9,000 electoral people. The average cannot be calculated because we have a little too many municipalities with a high proportion of people of different nationality. My main point is that maybe you're proposing some way to get more or less reliable data. Even if the computer is unable to issue them, it may be possible to calculate them manually so that they can still be reached this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U73	Thank you for your question. I believe that the most logical thing would be to get such information through the Republic Election Commission or their website. In any case, I will put this question behind my ears and see how this can be done. Yes, if you divide them into averages, then really, as you mentioned, this mandate is the Circa 9000 voters. One local authority has 1.3 mandates. We can develop this game of figures here for a long time, but I must add, of course, that everything that concerns the elections in the Riigikogu and this topic, whether the districts change and how they change, I believe that you are also aware that the main debate is in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. There have also been proposals. I know you have also made a legislative initiative, but it can also be discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. [[A voice from the hall.]] Yeah, you can discuss it yourself. I don't think this is a bad place. There are opposition parties and coalition parties together, and that is perhaps what we need to look at in a more general way. I hope that you will then make this decision either before the next elections or not in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The decision-making process is essentially in the hands of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U74	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, We cannot push things through in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs with the voice of Jüri Adams alone, which definitely requires the support of the government coalition and other pagans. My question, therefore, is this: is the Centre Party prepared to take the step that the Prime Minister sitting next to you, for example, is giving up half of his votes? Since the electoral district of Harju-Rapla is three times larger than the smallest electoral district in terms of the number of mandates, for example, it should be divided into two or some quick steps should be taken to achieve a more equal size circle in 2019's view.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U76	Thank you for your question. Of course, if you ask the party, then I guess we've discussed it too. There hasn't been a very firm and direct view, so we'd have drawn some kind of map somewhere, exactly what it could be. Different options have been discussed. If we're talking about the government, this issue is under the administration of the Ministry of Justice. Is there a specific proposal, I can't tell you that. I don't think that's right now. The Minister of Justice has presented his versions, he has proposed something, but has not made a firm decision. Yeah, some of the electoral circles are getting smaller and smaller. We know that some are larger in terms of the number of mandates. How can this balance and equality be like this in Estonia? The feeling is, really, we can't make it. The questioner Jüri Adams also shook his head, because he too does not believe well that we will be able to make this decision for the next elections in the respective electoral law here in the Riigikogu. I myself believe that this is not the subject of 2019, but rather the subject of 2023. Here, all parties could make their own concrete proposals. I understand you've already done it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U77	George Adams, a second point to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U78	Minister, thank you very much. My head shake was not about it, but about the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, even if it wanted to, cannot work unless it has the original figures. That's what it's all about. Unfortunately, statistics, no matter how thorough they are, cannot be used. Only absolute numbers can be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U79	Thank you. I don't think there was a question. But as far as figures are concerned, since Statistics Estonia is also under the administration of the Ministry of Finance, I will certainly ask whether precise statistics can be obtained.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U80	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! My question comes from the previous speakers. Indeed, with regard to the size of the constituencies, various maps have been drawn. One of them, if I remember correctly, was with seven circles. There would be very large districts in South Estonia, and some experts have expressed the opinion that this may mean that people in smaller regions and peripheral areas will be completely deprived of their right of representation. Do you confirm this, do you agree, or in what direction is your idea going in this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U82	Thanks for asking. I know this seven circles went through the proposals of the Republic Election Commission. They said they thought it was the best. It's very difficult to answer here. I am quite frankly saying that we, too, do not have a very clear opinion in the political party. There is such a danger, as you have even mentioned, that it is not known how the voices of people from different regions are represented. Are the districts with very large territories justified or not? There are still quite a few things to look at. What is the final decision, or where a compromise is found, is difficult to say. But I believe that the Centre Party will certainly also shape its opinion on what our vision is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U83	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U84	Three minutes till the end of Question Time. Who can push the button? Urmas Kruuse made it. Who's the question? Please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I have a question for the Honorable Prime Minister about the protection of the population. Normally, when it comes to the protection of the state or the population, there is a lot of talk about cannons and guns, but I didn't hear a word about food today. How is security in terms of food guaranteed in Estonia, especially in the light of national defence and possible exceptional events?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U86	Thank you for this question. First of all, if you don't mind, I'll give you a very strong compliment. I've been watching the reaction for the whole hour. You were always the first one, just one question. It's worth the credit. There is always a quick round of fingers here, as the President of the Riigikogu said. This is a very important issue in the protection of the population when we are talking about food, but not only food, but also water, clean drinking water. Coming to personal experience, I know, for example, that in the capital at the time I had the honour of being in charge of this area, special clean water storage facilities with an estimated stock of certain hours and days. I think that the availability of food supplies, as well as drinking water, requires very strong cooperation with the private sector, which of course requires maintaining the state's own stocks, but it also requires, as I previously said in relation to the protection of the population, very strong cooperation with the local government. So the three parties must find a solution to this issue. I am absolutely convinced that in December, when we discuss the final conclusion or report of the task force at the Government's cabinet meeting, the focus is on how the issue of access to food in crisis situations has been resolved and what kind of food needs to be stored. As far as I know, the Rescue Board's website currently contains an indicative list of things for residents and households to store in their homes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U87	Thank you, Prime Minister, and members of the Government of the Republic. Thank you, Riigikogu! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U88	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. You know what, friends, it's our neighbor's birthday. Long live the Republic of Finland! [[Let's hear it.]] And now, on this historic day, too, we can hand over drafts and enquiries. Please press "Speech"! Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U89	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Association and the Social Democratic Party, I am transferring the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and other laws. Its content is that the aim of the coalition is to halve the planned increase in excise duty on beer, other alcohol and alcoholic strength of up to 6% vol. wine and fermented drink, taking into account the current rates of excise duty. And the second draft, which I want to pass on on on behalf of the same groups, is the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act. The Chancellor of Justice has, as we know, repeatedly pointed out to us that the pace of acquiring land under § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act is too slow. With this draft, we want to give the State Forest Management Centre the right to buy land that is protected by nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U90	No more wishes. I have adopted two drafts and they will be processed under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 86 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U91	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. First point: Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 513. I'm opening negotiations. Artur Talvik on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U92	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Free Party Group has serious complaints about the way in which this draft law was discussed. It was jointly agreed to raise the index, it was a gentlemen's agreement. We all agreed. And then suddenly somewhere in the Commission came from under the table, a hidden rise in the salaries of the heads of certain constitutional institutions through so-called representation expenses and other problems arose. Such administration should not be part of the political culture of the Riigikogu. At second reading, the Free Party proposed to interrupt the reading and provided an opportunity to correct this error, but this was not done. Therefore, the Free Party will vote against the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U93	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U94	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna pick up where Artur Talvik finished, and I'm gonna get a little more into the details. The amendment of the salary law for senior civil servants started with the inclusion of prosecutors in the salary system of senior civil servants. The reason for this was the concern of the prosecutor's office, as well as of the judges, that their salaries were below market prices. This essentially means that some lawyer who has left the university relatively fresh gets more money than the prosecutor or judge is difficult to fill. We have an agreed system in Estonia, including senior state officials from the President, as well as government, Riigikogu, senior military and judges, now also prosecutors, Chancellor of Justice and some others. One large system has been designed to avoid any dispersal distortions where there are strangely high wages in one area of administration and strangely low wages in the other. The Riigikogu's parents' council sat and discussed very thoroughly how to change this system with the participation of all political groups. We are all very aware that the public is very sensitive or allergic in this respect, because the salaries of members of the Riigikogu are also included in this system. So here you have to very well justify all possible wage increases. It was agreed that the higher state officials whose salaries have been essentially frozen for ten years will become the so-called inflation and wage growth index from next year's Riigikogu membership. The salary of the Riigikogu is no longer reduced compared to the other wage market, but remains at the same level, not doing so. That's the deal. All the political groups signed this proposal. Nothing was said about the 20% premium for the share of the posts in this system. This 20% raise was later pushed forward without anyone agreeing on anything. In essence, it was agreed in the government, but it was not discussed in the body of elders. Simply put, this is a mess, and this is exactly why the salary system of senior civil servants was set up in the system of abnormal distortion. We are beginning to find ourselves in a situation where the laws are being judged by judges and the prosecutor's office, whose wages are higher than those of the lawmakers. This is absolutely not normal. This is not normal in terms of society's hierarchy, and it is not normal in practical terms either. So the addition of such a wage supplement to one part of the system breaks down this system and is in any case unreasonable. But what am I going to stress again? That's bullshit. And you can't reward pigs. We will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U95	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Of course, there are things in this law that need to be supported by the pay of prosecutors and the model of indexing the wages of senior civil servants, but it is not all right. The fact that we are linking all other civil servants to the issue of prosecutors is a very bad practice of lawmaking. We have repeatedly criticised such a thing and we do not accept it here either. That's another thing. A previous speaker spoke here about constitutional institutions. The prosecutor is not a constitutional institution and it is completely wrong to treat him as a representative. Adding to his representation expenses is something that goes against principles. Every Attorney General has an institution and thus his economic and representation expenses are covered anyway, unlike members of the Riigikogu, who must retain their sovereignty in covering their travel, communications, office and similar expenses: their choice, not the dictatorship of an accountant. So we would actually be happy to make a separate provision for this law on senior civil servants, including representation costs. Before the final vote, we ask for a ten-minute break to make a final decision on how we will act in the vote. It is too holed up, too flawed, and at the same time a hypocritical law. As has already been said last time, we believe that a dignified salary must also be allocated to the next composition, not only to the Riigikogu, but also to the judges. Raising the wage level from the next year is also what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U97	There are no more requests for negotiations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed a final vote. The Reform Party Group has asked for a ten-minute break. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U98	Dear Riigikogu, the requested break of the Reform Party before the vote is over. Since draft 513 requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, we will do a verification of the presence. Please! 89 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 513. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 28 members of the Riigikogu opposed, with no abstentions. Bill 513 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U99	The following is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Small Islands with permanent settlement initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Law on Traffic and the Law on the Landscape. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Honourable Riigikogu, the proposal of the commission is a final vote. I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Small Islands, the Traffic Act and the Law on the Landscape, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 493. Please take a stand and vote. 77 members of the Riigikogu were in favour and against, with one abstention. The Act amending the Law on the Small Islands with permanent residence, the Law on Traffic and the Law on the Ground has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U100	The following is the third reading of the Act amending the Administrative Procedure Act and other Acts initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Administrative Procedure Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other laws 497. Please take a stand and vote. There were 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 497, no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Administrative Procedure Act and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U101	Third reading of the draft law amending the Tourism Act, the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Tourism Act, the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 492. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 492, with one abstention. The Act amending the Law on Tourism, the Law of Obligations and the Law on Consumer Protection has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U102	Third reading of the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic, 508. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic, 508. Please take a stand and vote. 83 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Law amending the Competition Act has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U103	The third reading of the Act amending the Act on the Person Repressed by Occupational regimes and the Act on Social Welfare initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Dmitri Dmitriev, on behalf of the Centre Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U104	Ladies and gentlemen, It has been 31 years since the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the spread of radioactive waste across Ukraine, Belarus and Russia, which may have had a much greater impact. Today we are again talking here about the social guarantees of Chernobyl veterans and their support for restoring and maintaining health. Much time has passed since the date of Chernobyl disaster, and many probably cannot appreciate the contribution of those who left their health or their lives there today. In 2011, Kalev Timberg, then Director-General of the Rescue Board, who, as a civil defence officer, eliminated the consequences of a nuclear disaster, confirmed that the services of all these men were enormous. In an Ivo Heinmaa documentary in April 2012, they are even called Chernobyl samurai. Unfortunately, there is still a situation in Estonia where most of the Chernobyl veterans are deprived of state support under the current law. This is also referred to by Chernobyl veteran and former Ida-Viru governor Riho Breivel. He has also mentioned that the country does not pay enough attention to all Chernobyl veterans. Those people who were sent from Estonia to the Chernobyl disaster area...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U105	One moment, please! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U106	...there are considerably less than 3,000 left today. The same people, who have been prevented in Europe by a disaster of wider scale and greater environmental impact, are constantly forced to address their health problems. The EUR 230 social support provided by the bill on our table will be of great help to them. Until now, Chernobyl veterans were governed by the law of a person repressed by occupation regimes. According to the current Act, those who were subjected as a test subject to the detonation of a nuclear bomb or were forced into a nuclear disaster area to deal with the consequences of a disaster, but only those whose parents were Estonian citizens as of June 16, 1940, or non-citizens legally residing in Estonia. This version of the law created a situation where some of the current Estonian citizens actually lost their support. This fact has been pointed out for years by the Estonian Chernobyl Society, for example. For years, the Estonian Central Party has also been calling for the rights of veterans who took part in the resolution of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant on an equal footing. We have already submitted drafts in the Riigikogu and we have addressed the Chancellor of Justice. Since a solution has been sought for a very long time, a petition was submitted to the European Parliament in June this year about the violation of the rights of the liquidators of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Estonia. I would like to thank all my fellow Members and those involved who took an active part in the preparation of this draft. This fundamental change that both the Chernobyl veterans who have received Estonian citizenship later under naturalisation and persons of undefined citizenship must receive equal social support with others is commendable. This bill will certainly reduce injustice in the Chernobyl nuclear disaster area against people who have been forced in their own time. Therefore, the Centre Party Group supports this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U107	On behalf of the Group of the Tarmo Kruusimäe Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U108	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good members of the Riigikogu, fellow noblemen! We are not only dealing with one nuclear disaster-related change here today. I am pleased to welcome from this speaker also Mrs Toomi, who has been fighting for the rights of radiation victims for years. More importantly, we are talking about persons repressed by the occupying regimes. I am pleased to welcome the Chairman of the Estonian Mermento Union, Leo Õispuu. The financial support for the repressed is increasing considerably. As far as this disaster is concerned, I also welcome the drummer of my band, Priit Vasara. I'm glad I didn't let you go to that rendezvous point at the time, and the 120 rubles they gave you were worth it. Today you're the father of several children, and I think you can still make them. There were other ways to fight the occupation regime. No matter how much we increase financial support for the repressed, it is still extremely low, but it is a debt of honour that needs to be paid by our country. However, the memorial of the victims of communism, which arises on Mary's Mount, worries me right now. I want to tell Riigi Kinnisvara AS and also the Minister of Justice that this memorial will come to the repressed. At this point, their proposals on the technical issues of this monument are more important than what young people think, current artists. They think they could do it like this, maybe it's really cool and scary cool. It's not cool and it's not cool! This memorial is for the victims of communism, and on this issue the Estonian Memento Union must have the opportunity to say the first word as they want to see the memorial of the victims of communism. Good repressed, good deported, that's a small amount for you. But the 100th birthday of the Republic of Estonia is about to come and we know your contribution to the preservation of statehood and the suffering that caused the occupation regime to you. This small increase in prices does not compensate for the injustice that has been done to you, but it is symbolic. The Estonian state cares about you and thanks you for keeping the flag of Estonia high in Siberia. My honor to you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U109	There are no further requests to speak. The Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Act on the Person Repressed by the Occupational regimes initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Act on Social Welfare 518. Please take a stand and vote. There were 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 518; there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act amending the Act on persons repressed by occupation regimes and the Act on Social Welfare has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U110	The third reading of the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 512. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U111	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to recall the World Health Organisation (WHO) report from eight years ago. There, experts made it clear that, if such a financing model continues, where access to medical care depends solely on the receipt of social tax and the constant increase in people's ownership, in a few years' time, we will have completely irreversible negative consequences: people will no longer be able to see a doctor. These were very warning signs at the time, much was said about it, but this comprehensive report was translated into Estonian only a small brochure with the information that had been muffled. But this report also included a rescue plan. One of the proposals that was made at the time was the allocation of additional money for pensioners from the state budget, which would bring more money to the health insurance fund. What did the Reform Party do at the time? Instead of putting money on the budget from other funds, the healthcare sector was reduced twice as much as other areas, and people's ownership was increased. First, hospital care facilities were cut, then the cost of the day of care was significantly increased, the amount of sickness benefits was reduced, dental care benefits were abolished, the VAT on medicines and equipment was increased, the order of special medical care was extended, etc. I don't remember everything. From then on, people in the big cities couldn't get to the doctor, everything got worse. For many years, the health sector has been dominated by Reform Party Ministers: Hanno Pevkur, Taavi Rõivas, Maret Maripuu, Urmas Kruuse, even earlier Toomas Vilosius. Maybe somebody got caught. So what's the real situation today? According to people's own estimates, Estonia is the worst country with access to specialist medical care in the European Union. That's what Jevgeni Ossinovski said a year ago. In the OECD welfare index row, Estonia belongs to the rearmost. Education and employment are improving this indicator, but the dramatically falling availability of health care, the high level of people's participation and the fall in healthy years are dragging us into the most recent ones. In terms of health expenditure in GDP, we are the last in 4.9% of GDP. 184000 people did not get to the doctor in 2015 and were not treated. That's a fancy number, too, because a lot of these people just couldn't get in line. The number of treatment cases has been reduced steadily, and I am also thinking of the last few years. Hospitals are forced to lay off doctors, many doctors have to work at half the burden, general hospitals have to work together. It's all there. Last spring, Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski wanted to get more money from the state budget, and he was almost certain of it, I remember what took place in the Social Affairs Committee, but in the end, the leading party did not think it was necessary to give it. And now that healthcare has been squealing for ten years and if the current government is going to do something to save the situation a little bit, we will only hear the tabloid remarks from the Reform Party. There is a debate about some clarification: the expression 'additional wagering for pensioners' is not appropriate, it is populist. They ask why we do not keep uninsured people and service wallets separate. The question is, how are we now going to give assistance to uninsured people in need of emergency care, through the so-called health insurance fund? But it's actually a question of the world view to give people the best treatment they can. And you've probably heard that we're also planning general health insurance because 90,000 people still don't have health insurance. I would like to reiterate that one of the priorities of the current government is to improve funding for access to medical care, inter alia, to shorten treatment queues in the coming years. In order to reduce the treatment order only, 34 million more will be provided next year, 46 million next year, 53 million in 2020, 76 million in 2021 and 100 million in 2022. I really ask the other opposition parties: do not go along with the lobby of the Reform Party, because it does not help people in the event of distress and illness. We're doing what we didn't want to do in ten years. Although no one can see or take money mountains anywhere, and no one thinks that the queues will disappear from tomorrow, it is important that the course is that, in the end, the matter has begun, contrary to previous years. Thank you. I call for support!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U112	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! It is pleased that the most important reform of the Estonian health care sector after the establishment of the Health Insurance Fund and the establishment of a common health insurance system will be carried out under the leadership of our Minister for Health and Labour, Jevgeni Ossinovski. In the future, the state will pay the sickness fund from the state budget in addition to the old-age pensioners who are not in employment every year. Public extra money means better quality health care and shorter queues. More than EUR 200 million will be available for additional funding for the medical system over the next four years. On the basis of an agreement reached between coalition partners, the State will assume the payment for the treatment of pensioners. The model of additional healthcare funding has been being sought in Estonia for more than ten years, as the ageing population, together with the introduction of new treatments and more expensive medical techniques, has long known the facts. The tensions stemming from the lack of medical funding deepened in recent years, but unfortunately previous governments did not have the courage to face such a complex problem. The additional injection should increase the volume of specialist care and ensure that people can get to the doctor more quickly in the future. The new year should also reduce the burden of ambulances and emergency medical care so that they can focus on their core activities. The Social Democrats support the adoption of the Bill as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U114	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U115	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 22 November, when the second reading of this draft took place, I was also here at the front desk explaining why the Free Party submitted a rejection proposal. I repeat once again why it is not reasonable or in the interests of the Estonians to adopt this draft Health Insurance Fund Act in the manner proposed by the Government of the Republic. I would stress that we are not at all opposed to the objective of the draft, i.e. to ensure better access to health care for the people of Estonia and sustainable financing of health care, including increasing incomes from other incomes. I support and understand the arguments put forward by the previous two speakers that maintaining health care through labour taxes alone is not sustainable in the long term, there is a need for additional money to be brought into the system. What we are specifically opposed to, however, is the Minister's desire to conceptually change the healthcare financing system, which takes the first steps towards blurring the insurance-based model of the Health Insurance Fund. The current insurance-based model is intended to decouple so-called health insurance and social tax revenues, i.e. to change the system of financing health care. Our desire is very simple to maintain clear limits between health insurance contributions and public-funded health services. The two sources of funding should be kept separate in the budget rather than added to one of the large pots where everything mixes. If the person is insured, he or she also has a legitimate expectation of health care services, medicines, etc. In addition, we still have a whole range of services that are not only guaranteed for the health-insured, but for everyone, and which must also be guaranteed for everyone in the future, whether it is an ambulance service or HIV-positive medicines, which have so far been funded from the state budget. These are really necessary services. We consider it important, however, that the principles of insurance and personal responsibility must increasingly be taken into account in health care, rather than being separated from them. If the draft is adopted in the manner proposed by the government, there will be a risk that cannot be accepted in any way. This means that the Health Insurance Fund is consciously entrusted with the task of covering the deficit in the financing of public services. In this way, we have no confidence that in the future the availability of healthcare will not deteriorate further, as it will be necessary to cover the costs of services provided from the health insurance budget, such as medical care, ambulance, dental care, HIV-positive medicines, etc. We need to keep separate accounts at the health insurance fund about the state's obligations, which should continue to be covered by the state's financial allocation, not by health insurance. That's all we're waiting for. If the ministry's goal is to blur the limits and criteria of funding, then you have achieved your goal. However, I am sure that the situation of taxpayers and insured people will actually deteriorate as a result. What I want to emphasise and which we do not agree with yet is that we are sending blurry and misleading messages to the public. The Ministry of Social Affairs has repeatedly issued press releases, as was the case here today, as if more than EUR 200 million would come into healthcare in the coming years. This is one piece of hat trick: in fact, there will be less than half of the so-called clean money, for example, 34 million next year. It merely seeks to balance the negative state budget more. Nor is it yet known where and why the additional money is being channelled. We also asked Minister Ossinovski during the debate on Monday's inquiry. The claim that treatment queues are shortening is too general. But which specialties, how much and why? It's not clear. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U117	And the most recent complaint that I have made here too, and which also applies to the next draft, is that both the draft Health Insurance Fund Act, the draft Health Insurance Act and the draft Family Benefits Act have been drafted without the intention to develop, with sufficient involvement and without analysing the pros and cons. Just driving by force cannot be considered a good legislative practice. As we have heard, these are not urgent drafts, which could be the reason for such haste, and the only reason that the coalition has decided this is not the case at present. In view of the above, the Free Party Group cannot support the adoption of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U118	On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U119	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker took the words out of my mouth, and I don't seem to have much to say. However, in addition to a few things, I would like to draw attention to some things in particular. A previous colleague spoke about how criminal the Reform Party has been. This whole speech echoed about it, but unfortunately it has not been understood which conceptual, substantive problem is with this draft. We are corrupted and destroyed by the health insurance system, and with it we are going back to the current one is probably the first major step, but the next steps are said to be in the direction of state-funded health care. When we talk about health insurance for all people, we are talking about public health care. We had this public health care in Soviet times. So did everyone get help? Was life good? I don't know. But to say that health care is bad because the funding is the least is incompetence and misunderstanding. We have very good healthcare, we have very good medical staff. Go and go to other countries. Look, feel and stand in these queues, and you'll understand that we're not at all the worst. It is wrong to say that Estonia has the largest share in health expenditure! In the Committee on Social Affairs, we had a schematic showing that there was an average. Average, not the greatest, so please be correct in such matters! For us, however, the most important thing is that the health insurance system is being broken. It is not a question of extra money just because we are not against it. It is a good thing that the state finds an understandable mechanism for moving money to health care. However, the confusion and the fact that the draft does not want to be discussed in order to make things better cannot be accepted. But what to do is, the left-wing government wants to do left-wing politics. Good luck with that! We do not agree to send health care to a long-term doom, and that is why we are voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U120	Mart Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U121	Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers have already actually raised the main objections, but I want to add to the picture by raising it somewhat wider. We have already experienced many times in this Chamber today how we are being placed in Brezhnev's packages, where things that are good have been put together, and things that are probably unacceptable to most of the people in this Chamber. But our political culture is such that the opposition cannot cross the coalition, but the coalition can cross the opposition, so these Brezhnev packages will be pushed through. The current draft is also, in a sense, a Brezhnev package, but it also speaks of something much more important. It speaks of the fact that the current government acknowledges that we are facing the bankruptcy of the medical system. Not only is it a financial bankruptcy, this bankruptcy also relates to tax changes that the new government has pushed through in Estonia in general. This morning I got a call from a doctor, a long-term acquaintance who said he'd put his property on the market and leave for Finland. It doesn't make any sense for him to work here anymore because new taxes take away more from him than he earns as a result of this toil. This is a great achievement of the left-wing government. When the main blue collars left Estonia so far, white collars, including doctors, are now leaving Estonia. They've already gone away from here, but now more of them are going to leave. This is the most serious problem with the bankruptcy of this medical system, not that there is no money left and that there is a transfer of hat tricks from one pocket to another, to give the impression that medicine is being dealt with constructively and that both the financing and quality of medicine will increase in the Republic of Estonia. No, it won't! On the contrary, these changes result in flowers first and then bitter fruit. These bitter fruits naturally come somewhat later. It is possible that this government will then no longer be at all at the rally of the state, and the next government will have to start chewing on these bitter fruits and finding ways to eliminate these results. The course that has now been taken is not reasonable, it is not sustainable. That is why we are clearly and unambiguously opposed to this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U122	However, the Commission's proposal is for a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 512. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 members against and 34 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 512, with 0 abstentions. Consequently, the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Act is amended and the related amendment of other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U123	Third reading of draft law 514 amending the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Marika Tuus-Laul Centre Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U124	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We really do have good doctors, and no one will argue with that. We also have the most cost-effective medicine in Europe. However, this is not optimal for the patient and doctors do not want to treat this way; doctors do not agree with this treatment. That's the problem. There's no money in healthcare, and we're bringing it in. This draft, which we are currently dealing with, has been awaited for a very long time. It is expected that at least people who have to take a lot of medicines every day because of their illness will be made more favorable and accessible. After all, medicines are very expensive in Estonia. The current procedure, in order to receive this small amount of compensation, is so uncomfortable and clumsy. It is a failed system: people do not understand how they have to apply for this benefit and how much they have spent on medicines at all. That is why it is very important that the new system works automatically without submitting an application. The pharmacy automatically calculates the amount to be reimbursed at the time of purchase when the €100 spent on the medication has been reached. The fear that high-paid people will also benefit from this will not suffer criticism. If we look at how much people on low incomes, perhaps the poorest part of health care spending, are going to be medicines, then they will be 3/4 or even more. Poorer people cannot afford other services: no pay-per-view, no dental care, no other health care. They're gonna need that money on the meds. Pensioners and chronic sufferers often fail to buy a prescription because of poverty. Once again, for ten years, people's own contributions to health care, or insured persons, have had to put more and more of their money into health care. Of these costs, 40% are medicines and 30% are dental care, fortunately a small step forward, although it is far from ideal. I would like to remind you once again that the new system and procedure provide that if a person spends €100 to €300 a year on medicines, they will be reimbursed at 50%, and if medicines are already worth more than €300, the amount will be reimbursed at 90%. Of course, the current concessions will continue to apply. I have to say once again that I did not understand the reform party's proposal for improvement, according to which this 100-euro limit, where compensation begins, was too low, and it was proposed to raise it to 150. This was suggested in order to ensure that the compensation would not be received by 100000 people but by 40000 people. The EUR 100 limit is too sloppy and the current solution can lead to all prescription medicines being free soon, and why we want to straighten out the extra money that health care is given quickly. It was also asked in this Chamber last reading why we forget that salaries, pensions and patients' well-being and abilities are constantly increasing, i.e. why we have to make these medicines cheaper in this way. I would remind you that in previous years, before the elections, the pension was reduced to the estimated pension formula. One year it was frozen. In the year before the election alone, the pension was paid according to the pension formula and the real pension did not really increase. So we cannot boast that pensions have grown enormously well, and that we in Estonia, where medicines are really expensive, do not need a medical allowance. This is perhaps again a world-view difference: we want to support the poorer and the lower-income people and, in the right-wing world view, this budget money is somehow being reallocated to the benefit of the wealthier. That's a different attitude. But the Central Party Group is very pleased that we can now respect this very good bill and accept it here for the older and sickest people together to make up for their pharmaceutical costs. We call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U125	On behalf of the Maris Lauri Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U126	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I had no intention of speaking, but it was as if the previous speaker had not attended the meetings of the Commission. This amendment was not from the political group; it was my own proposal that should have been known. The second thing: it is not just that I have a reluctance to provide additional medical benefits. I asked the question whether we were too sloppy, and I put forward arguments because questions arose in me, in an economically thinking person. There were no answers to these questions, why such limits did not come from the Minister, from the Ministry. Is there an analysis anywhere? No, it's not. So I'm asking for correctness, especially if you start blaming someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U127	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U128	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The draft before us will regulate the payment of an additional medical benefit and bring it below this limit. Under the current regime, 50% can be reimbursed if our expenditure on preferential medicines ranges from 300 to 500 euros. If they are more than EUR 500, 90% will be reimbursed. The bill brings this limit down, which is very good. If we spend €100 to €300 on preferential medicines, the country will compensate 50% and 90% for over €300. And the system will be made much, much more comfortable, because it will be automatically calculated, we do not need to apply for it. I agree with the earlier statement that the current system was very confusing: people did not know where to present this proof. What don't we like about this? Not that this limit is being brought down, but that everything is being done so automatically in our e-state that we will no longer even be asked whether we want to receive additional medical benefits from the country or not. This means that if, for example, any of us spends EUR 110 a year on preferential medicines, he automatically gets the money back, by 50%. But maybe I don't want it and I don't need it, maybe someone else needs it. If we are saying that we are short of money in healthcare, then perhaps we should not make this change in this way. We live in an e-state. It's very easy to create a chance that I can put on a bird if I don't want it or I don't need it at some point, and if I want it, I can use it. But that's not the opportunity I've been given right now. It seems to me and my group that this is a little over-the-counter. Let us ask people whether they want this additional medical benefit from the state or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U129	There are no further requests to speak. Let's go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, please calm down! I am voting on the amendment of the Health Insurance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and on the amendment of other laws in connection with this draft 514. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 514 and 20 against, with 2 abstentions. The law amending the Health Insurance Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U130	Third reading of draft law 517 amending the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Mr Rainer Vakra on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U131	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We are seeing more and more fathers in street pictures with baby carriages, and it is increasingly common for the mother and father of the child to share parental leave. I see a good father and his child have reached this hall and is doing selfie. And it's not the only father in this room, I've seen them here before. It is also a pleasure to say that Valdo Randperel's face shines, that all fathers will be able to extend paternity leave from 2020 if we vote in favour of this draft. If we're looking at the research, I think we all know what they're showing in this hall, but we're gonna talk it over. These studies show that a greater share of fathers in raising a child helps to create and maintain better family relationships. The more fathers take part in caring for her after the baby's birth, the better the bond they have with their child. Greater responsibility towards their children in turn has a positive impact on men's health and reduces the risk behaviour of both fathers and children. In this light, on 28 November, the Ministry of Social Affairs launched such a great campaign as 'Home with Dad', or 'Grow up together! '. I've seen that some fathers have shared their experiences there. I brought three of the coolest speeches to read to you before we start pressing this button. So three thoughts from the fathers. First of all, parental leave and staying at home means a man's cooking. This is when the boy becomes a man. Second thought: why not be on parental leave when the country and family have given every opportunity to share the role of parent. And third, an encouraging thought: There is nothing to be afraid of! If a man can handle himself, he can take care of the little child. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us extend paternity leave! This change values paternity and ensures that the mother and father can share the burden of raising the child more evenly. The father can stay home with his child for 30 days instead of 10 working days and the state will pay additional parental benefit for it. Thank you for supporting this good bill and good luck to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U132	There are no further requests to speak. Dear Riigikogu, we are going to the final vote. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, I am voting on the amendment of the Family Benefits Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws Act 517. Please take a stand and vote. There were 62 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the draft 517; no one opposed it; 1 was impartial. The law amending the Family Benefits Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U133	Third reading of draft law 490 amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws. I'm opening negotiations. Marika Tuus-Laul, please, on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U134	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, We are really very pleased that we are fulfilling the long-term electoral promise of the Central Party, as well as an important point in the coalition agreement. The law, which removes the very long-term debt to the Estonian people, will bring back the funeral allowance that the Andrus Ansip government lost in 2009 within 12 days, will reach here in the Riigikogu for admission. It is true, even now, that funeral allowance is paid, but only for funerals organised by funerals and local authorities receiving income support, with a total amount of approximately EUR 100000. For the following year, funeral grants are set at EUR 4 million and local authorities receive EUR 250 for each death. Although the arrangements for granting the aid are established by each municipality, there is no reason to believe that the aid will be distributed on the spot on a "face" basis to whom there is more, to whom there is less. The grant is dedicated: if the amount of the grant is not used, the money will be left over, then the amount will be reduced next year by the amount not used. It's written in the law. For example, the city of Tallinn has decided very firmly that 250 euros will be paid to the funeral organiser in the event of each death. They didn't even understand the question of why I thought it might be different. It is true that the municipality must also be given an application. In the case of the previous draft, it was criticised that if, for example, I did not want this support, I would not have to make a statement. Free Party, do you copy? You need to write your own application for support here. Of course, when someone dies, the person turns to the municipality, and in that case, everything is simply feasible. This draft also raises the limit of living, and this is an important change. The income limit rises from EUR 130 to EUR 140 for the person living alone and the first member of the family, and from EUR 130 to EUR 168 per month for each minor member of the family. Either way, it's a very big slope. The need-based family allowance disappears because it has not proved effective. However, in order to reduce absolute poverty, it is more effective to change the system of income support in order to make it more flexible and to encourage people to work. In order to facilitate re-employment, a two-month transitional period is provided for, where the person is also paid income support, i.e. salary and allowance at the same time. For the next four months, 50% of the working income is not included in the family's income for the calculation of income support. In addition, earnings earned by underage pupils will not be included in future incomes for the purpose of calculating income support. This allows students to work freely during school holidays, and the family does not lose any of it. Such regulation, I think, will greatly increase family incomes and is, of course, an active measure of its nature. And I call on everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U135	On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U136	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! I didn't come here to discuss the details of a specific bill. For me, this draft, and indeed the previous drafts, is one of the fundamental political choices that this hall must make. This political choice is: is a person free to decide for himself or is the country smarter? There have been good points in very many of the drafts that we have voted on here, which are difficult not to support. In this particular draft too, it is difficult not to support the fact that the payment of income support is going to be made more flexible, without question a good and sensible proposal. But it is undisputed that it is difficult to understand why the need should be removed. In the case of social benefits, there is one principle that should be included throughout the bill. It is that the state must help those who need help. If the country is simply going to overwhelm everyone with money, it is inefficient. This is something that is very difficult to understand: why are we once again choosing the path of losing the element of necessity? Even in the case of funerals, it is inevitably the case that when the state grants support, people will of course accept it. But also in the case of funeral allowance, however difficult it may be for families, it should first and foremost be based on whether a particular family needs help or not. The Estonian state as a whole is not yet so rich that we can pay everyone off. And I very much hope that this will never happen. A person's own will for effort, a desire to decide his own life, is something of a fundamental nature to value. That is why, in fact, it is very difficult for me not only on behalf of the group but also personally to vote in favour of this draft. I also find it very difficult to vote against this bill because there are good points. Perhaps with all these recent drafts, a good coalition, why do you do this: you put in a good thing that makes sense to say that the current coalition does something sensible, but sometimes they have something sensible, and then you put some crap on it. Come on in concrete matters or listen to the opposition's opinions. We are talking about social benefits in circumstances where, unfortunately, the Estonian state budget has already gone in that direction every year, that we have the freedom to decide something in this hall. We are already talking about a budget that we cannot practically decide on more than 75% of. Any decision which adds to the 'accounting cost' means that this hall will have fewer decision-making powers. These are the fundamental choices that this hall can make here: either to reduce its decision-making space or to the people's decision-making space. These decisions, which we are now making, unfortunately, will take away the decision-making space of both the people and this Chamber in the future and put all future governments under pressure, because all the so-called "A" costs, which are in the budget, that is to say, the estimated costs have a tendency to grow. We're gonna lock ourselves in, and that's not a reasonable way. Once again: what I certainly cannot support is that we are losing the necessity of being an element of our social system. It can't be done, people need to be appreciated. We have databases, let's just say three. We know exactly who receives income support. We know from the police who their risk families are. We know through the Rescue Board who their risk families are. If we combine these three databases alone, we could focus much more on this support and provide assistance to those who need it instead of sowing it for everyone. That is the fundamental political gap ♪ is it equally little for all those in need or more for those in need of assistance? We support it to give more to those who really need help. Unfortunately, no more can be given to everyone; the Estonian state is not yet so rich. So, unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U137	Andres Ammas wishes to participate in the negotiations on the ground and, in my opinion, he registered earlier than Tarmo Kruusimäe. Andres Ammas, please, speak up!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U138	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Before the vote on behalf of the Free Party, please take five minutes of recess.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U139	But the negotiations are underway. Tarmo Kruusimäe, please, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U140	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm a punk here with you. I don't know much about your clusterware or cuckoo dishes. However, I am saying that one change is good, in my opinion it is not ethical to charge taxes on a child working in the summer. Work education is important to me. Today we have created a generation of tender people who think that money comes out of the wall. We have created such a difficult situation with our own laws. I started working when I was 12. I lived with my grandmother, and in the winter it was just physically difficult for her to push the snow. Because it was nothing, I threw the snow away, and I went to school happily. If we allow children to work in the summer now, I think it's not ethical to cut taxes on it. That's good for this bill. The fact that we are also talking about morbid issues on this bill is of no concern to me at the moment. However, I have seen how complicated we have made the student-creating system more difficult, and this is worrying. Moreover, young people must not pick up a rake, a shovel, an axe, anything they can hurt themselves with in the summer. But the fact that we don't tax students' work in the summer is, in my opinion, a winks-on. I therefore call for this draft to be supported in the name of work education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U141	The President has no right to comment, but I have an obligation to hold a final vote on draft 490. But before that, the honourable Riigikogu, the attention! A five-minute break on behalf of the Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U142	Dear Riigikogu, the recess taken by the Free Party is over. I am voting on the draft law amending the Social Welfare Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws 490. Please take a stand and vote. There were 57 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the adoption of the 490 bill, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Social Welfare Act and repealing the State Death Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U143	The third reading of the Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, follows. I'm opening negotiations. Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U144	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Group of the Estonian Free Party fully supports the objective of the draft proposal initiated by the Social Affairs Committee to enable a member of the company's management board who has lost his or her main job to receive unemployment insurance benefits if he or she is not paid for performing the duties of a member of the board and fulfils the conditions for receiving benefits laid down in the Unemployment Insurance Act. As we all remember, in spring 2014, the Riigikogu adopted an amendment to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, which abolished the possibility for members of the company's board of directors to register as unemployed and receive unemployment insurance benefits. The faction of the Estonian Free Party has twice submitted a draft law to end the constitutional situation based on our opinion at first. I would like to remind you that the first time, the draft that we tabled was rejected. On the second occasion, the first reading was stopped, but that was where it remained. After that, the Chancellor of Justice presented his position to all of us here in the Riigikogu and expected us to change the existing situation. Unfortunately, neither the government nor the Riigikogu did so, and the Chancellor of Justice was forced to turn to the Supreme Court to change the situation. The Supreme Court gave the Government of Jüri Ratas an opportunity to show itself to be business friendly, but unfortunately the Government did not take advantage of this possibility. It must be said that the draft, which we have before us today, is relatively harsh. A member of the management board who does not receive any remuneration for his work but has paid all the necessary taxes must comply with three requests for registration as unemployed. First, he shall not receive any remuneration for the performance of the duties of a member of the Governing Board. Secondly, he has at least 12 months of unemployment insurance during the 36 months preceding the date on which he was registered as unemployed. Thirdly, it has not left the last place of employment or employment on its own initiative or with the agreement of the parties and has not itself caused the loss of work. The bill imposes too strict conditions on a member of the company's management board for registration as unemployed. It still feels like we want to punish entrepreneurship, but that should not be the case. For example, if a person works on the basis of a contract of employment and carries out a small amount of business alongside the main job, being a member of the management board without paying for it, and he/she terminates the contract of employment by agreement between the parties, he/she cannot register for his/her jobless status on the basis of the draft that we are about to vote on, because one of the three conditions for registration as unemployed is not met. In such a situation, a person must stop acting as a member of the board if he or she wishes to register as unemployed. The Supreme Court has also stated that such a forced choice can violate the freedom of business of the affected person, as well as the right to freely choose the occupation, profession and job. If a person is looking for a job and needs state help in finding a job, then a person should have the right to register as unemployed. This right should also be exercised by a person when performing at the same time the functions of a member of the Executive Board free of charge. That is why we have proposed in the past to restore the provision in force before 1 May 2014 according to which no member of the Executive Board, who will be paid for his work, will be counted as unemployed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U145	There is no further wish for negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee, 479. Please take a stand and vote. There were 78 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting bill 479 and 5 against, with no abstentions. The Act amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act has been adopted. Dear Riigikogu, I will take the chairman's break five minutes. We'll proceed at 3:50.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U146	Mr Riigikogu, the break taken by the President has ended. Don't make the chairman of this board an exchange, too far-reaching conclusion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U147	Our 12th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present a speech chair to Toomas Jürgenstein, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U148	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us that seems small at first glance, but it is helping to make sport a completely medium step forward. I would like to say in advance that there was a great deal of consensus in the Committee on Culture on this draft, that is to say, in a consensual manner. But let me remind you a little bit about the contents. This is the draft initiated by the Government of the Republic on 6 November. The draft provides for the possibility of compensating voluntary sports judges for the costs associated with their activities without any cost records. The cost benefit rate shall not exceed EUR 20 per day and shall not exceed EUR 1040 per year. The costs can be reimbursed by a person accredited by the sports federation or who is under 20 years of age and cannot be remunerated for acting as a sports judge in the same competition. Competitions in which reimbursement of the costs of volunteering as a sports judge can be claimed without a cost document must be made public on the website of the sports organisation and in the competition calendar. The first reading of the bill was in this Chamber on 15 November. Neither the political groups nor the committees of the Riigikogu submitted amendments within the deadline. There were no proposals from sports associations or the Olympic Committee addressed. However, the Committee on Culture made two amendments. The first is of a descriptive nature, the second is editorial. Amendment 1: 'The amendment proposed by the Committee on Culture complements § 1 of the Sport Act and adds that the scope of the Sport Act also includes the establishment of the grounds for reimbursement of the costs relating to the activities of a voluntary sports judge when the amendment enters into force. ' The second amendment was editorial in order to improve the legal clarity of the wording. If initially the title of the section to be included in the Sport Act was the 'Sports Judge' cost compensation', the Committee on Culture proposes that it be 'Reimbursement of expenses related to the activities of an optional sports judge'. Some linguistic improvements were also made. On 23 November, the commission decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 6 December for a second reading and to propose that the plenary session conclude the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U149	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Jüri Jaanson. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U150	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You are saying that the purpose of this bill is to help sport take a step forward. According to this draft, the costs of the judges will be covered by a compensation spread over the whole year. But can the full allowance be paid on 52 weekends to cover the costs necessary to maintain your qualifications and basically the form? The maximum daily fee is 20 euros. And we still have four seasons, and consequently most sports are seasonal. The actual annual occupancy of sports judges is between ten and twenty days. They would receive the maximum cost benefit if they acted on 52 weekends. How do you comment on how this really contributes to the activities of sports judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U151	Helps in the sense that the bill helps voluntary sports judges pay expenses without submitting cost documents. However, if some sports club wants to compensate for the costs incurred on the basis of, for example, the cost documents, there is no prohibition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U152	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U153	Thank you. Good waitress! Estonia has set an example with its simple and transparent tax system and we have tried to keep this line in order not to create additional tax distinctions. In any context, did the Commission raise the issue of perhaps better resolving this problem in order to provide targeted additional support to sport organisations rather than creating differences in the tax system?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U154	I can only say that this issue was not discussed in the Committee on Culture. It's probably a wider issue, and I don't know how to comment on it from this line. I repeat, the question was not raised in any way in the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U155	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U156	Thank you. Good waitress! The problem begins when the Committee on Culture discusses the matter. The tax law has never been allowed to be discussed by the Committee on Culture. As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and as a senior financial person, I really do not understand what this is all about. Please bring an analogy from other areas, that is how an envelope is paid for something! And it can't be pay, but there's gotta be a payoff for something no one can describe! Please bring analogys from other areas of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U157	I admit that I, too, feel that this reimbursement is relatively unique. But that 20 euro isn't taken from the ceiling. Together with several sports organisations, the amount of training, licences, uniforms, tools, etc. has been calculated. This is how EUR 20 has been reached. So I will answer the first part of the question, that I, too, find this regulation relatively unique. But since this fee is taken from the ceiling, I don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U158	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U159	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Does this law extend to youth camps if the camp is included in a sports calendar?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U160	The sports organisation that can apply for it must have published its competitions on its website and must be in the competition calendar. So, for example, when it comes to young basketball players or young rowers' camp and the competition is available on the website, this law also applies to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U161	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U162	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I come back to my question. In fact, the occupation of judges in different sports is very different. This also leads to extreme inequalities in covering these costs and it would still be justified to raise the threshold. On the other hand, sports companies are also not very interested in covering the costs of sports judges when they are understaffed. They don't always know if they come out every time they have to. Therefore, the reimbursement of the costs of sports judges remains a major concern of their own. I come back to my question: how, after all, would this law help to reduce this inequality and properly compensate sports judges for their costs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U163	This will make the system more flexible. This law does not preclude some sports judges from receiving compensation on the basis of contracts or expenditure documents. So the system becomes more flexible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U164	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U165	Thank you. Good colleague! It seems to me that you have not spoken very much to the initiator of the bill. Indrek Saar, on behalf of the government of the Republic, who initiated the bill, told us a different story. You said, in answer to the previous question, that this amount has been negotiated with the sports federations, that together with the sports organisations, we have reached a position on how much the judicial equipment costs and everything else. The Minister said, however, that this EUR 20 has been set on the basis of how much money the country has. And there's no more money to pay. I just wanted to make it clear that just this 20 euro is multiplied by the number of weeks per year. This is the amount that is then exempted from the special preferential tax. You might still be wise to explain to yourself where this amount comes from and not to claim that it is the actual cost of the judges. The actual cost of judges is certainly much higher, and since this EUR 20 cannot be deducted tax-free even if you pay more to the judge, it will also be taken into account in full, then, unfortunately, this bill is one small pokazuha.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U166	Thank you. As a Protestant, I trust a letter in a Protestant cultural space a little more than an oral speech. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, I read: the costs of a voluntary sports judge have been identified during the competition season, in cooperation with sports organisations. The exact amount here is 21.98 euros, which would then be one day's fee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U167	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! If this income accumulates a year, will it also be subject to income tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U169	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U170	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U171	Dear waitress, I'm going to use Hanno Pevkur's tactics to clarify this in the form of a question. In fact, the opinion of my esteemed colleague Jürgen Ligi gave the impression that it was discussed by completely ignorant people who did not know anything about finance. Does it seem to you, dear Thomas, that it is right to discuss the financing of the sports law with the Ministry of Finance, as was the case here? There are probably more qualified people than the ones you can talk to in this house in costaars and who are the only ones who know anything about finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U172	It's a philosophical question, at least it seems to me. I remember that at some point when Jaak Aaviksoo was Minister of Education, he came up with the idea that mathematics curricula should not be made by mathematicians and physics curricula should not always be done by physicists. Sometimes the side-by-side, of course in cooperation with experts in the field, is certainly useful and the final result is a little better suited to the needs of real life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U173	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U174	Perhaps we will continue the debate that we held here at first reading. I asked the Minister if it was possible to add up the sums spent. The bill states that the money is intended to compensate for the costs incurred by the sports judge. So it's not a reward for a judge to whistle, for example. If I recall the explanatory statement at first reading, it said whistles, sneakers, clothes, etc., their cost could be reimbursed. I asked the Minister about this, he missed an answer, but I was hoping the Committee on Culture would handle it. Could the sums spent add up in this sense, for example, if a judge presented a check to the sports federation, that he had bought himself a shirt, a sneaker and a whistle, could they pay him a sum of EUR 1040? There was no answer to that. It is still meant to be paid 20 euros per day, and once a week you can go to justice. What is your opinion: could the costs be added together? Would that make sense and help?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U175	I'll answer it a little differently. Actually, there's a question I've been thinking about. Our colleague, Kruusimäe, spoke nicely a little while ago about the work and upbringing of children. Being a judge is one of the very good opportunities for this same work education, as this bill allows cost compensation to be paid, on the one hand, to those who have been accredited in the Union and, on the other, to those under 20 years of age. And in youth sports, it is often the case that younger games whistle or measure their accomplishments just a little older training companions. I see such a pedagogical moment here. If I was the father of a child at my age, of course I'd buy him the equipment he needs. But he works and earns pocket money. But yes, I didn't answer your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U176	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. As this is a second reading, negotiations are open to everyone. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U177	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Any tax distinctions must be carefully considered from the point of view of the state budget. I do not know whether this issue, which is very deeply relevant to sport, should be discussed in the Committee on Culture or in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but this is not a key issue at the moment. Sport itself is maintained by three key players: coach, athlete and sports judge. By its very nature, sport is inextricably competitive and it is essentially the result of competition. The impartial arbitration of the competition is carried out by a judge independent of the parties, which means that unlike an athlete or a cultural figure, the activity and development of a sports judge cannot be financed by sponsors' donations. To cover his expenses, the funds must come from the organiser of the competitions. This draft should be very flexible, but it is not, although the Commission rapporteur argues otherwise. The current draft is necessary, but the question is whether it will actually act as a law in its proposed form or whether it will become an empty law. As we know, we have four seasons, and consequently most sports competitions are seasonal. The occupancy of judges in these areas therefore remains relatively low, with an average of 10 to 20 days a year. But this law takes account of the fact that only 52 days' occupancy could get the maximum benefit. But judges also have to go to training, get a uniform and more. The sub-unions are not motivated to cover these costs because they should, like, do it equally for all judges, but this would lead to an unequal approach. So the judge will first and foremost bear his own costs. In order to receive the prescribed cost compensation, the occupancy of sports judges should be 60 to 80% higher. Yes, there are, in particular, those hall areas where voluntary sports judges are occupied all year round and can indeed receive the full amount of compensation, but this creates very large inequalities between sports judges. To sum it up. The sports judges have told me not to be disturbed by this law, but it's no use to them. In seasonal sports, the fees for judges are already higher, so that this law will in any case go by. So it's nothing but an empty law. This is why the draft, which is intended to support the development of sport competitions, does not fulfil its objective. In order for the law to be operational, it would be necessary to increase the compensation limit up to EUR 50 per day. The limit of the year could remain the same. But as I understand it, the Ministry of Finance fears fraud and opposes such a change. However, this should not be the case. However, since the draft as it stands, without the necessary amendments, remains empty of content and creates inequalities among sports judges, I do not consider it possible to support its further processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U178	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U179	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Whoever initiates such a draft is precisely the key issue of this draft, as we have seen from today's report. Interest groups are not allowed to make separate tax laws for themselves. It is extremely depressing to hear how it is commended that everyone in the Committee on Culture agreed to the proposal and discussed it in broad agreement, so that there could be some way to make something tax-free in their area of administration. I saw Indrek Saart at first reading here on the remote, and I had a bad feeling, but really, there wasn't enough time for the deepening that we're dealing with. I don't think the Committee on Culture even looked into what the Income Tax Act is. How is it, however, that the very narrow activity of a very narrow area is suddenly treated as one of the 10 exceptions that are not taxed on income tax?! This is absolutely ridiculous! It is not clear whether it is a commercial activity or a non-profit activity, whether it is a salary or not. We're talking about needing some sneakers and whistles. I'm sorry! The cost of chains and whistles does not in any way amount to 20 euros a week. No matter how you look, it's not some exact science! It's just an envelope salary you don't want to call it. It's not about the amount of money, it's about the principle. Such an envelope fee must be regulated in accordance with the general principle of how we treat volunteering at all, how we can cover the costs of such people, how to formalise these contracts. The brilliance of the Minister of Culture is, of course, in the sense that if there is no money, then the exemption can still be made. We don't have the Finance Minister for the third year. The Minister of Finance would have said that, come on, fellas, this is not the way to undermine public finances, that everyone gets something free of charge and no one registers income. After all, this sets a precedent that infects other areas as well. And what's all this going to cost?! I understand you have to pay the judges, but it's usually called pay. If it is a voluntary activity, it is necessary to review the sections of voluntary activity and to lay down it in general terms, not to talk about any whistles in a narrow area. This is ridiculous! That's the problem. You don't understand what you're doing. You're gonna do the IRS and start screwing around. What could be the next area? Is there some kind of envelope salary for cultural workers or teachers? What else do you find in your administration? You don't just do that! Read, sign the Income Tax Act and look into its logic! How suddenly there's gonna be a hitch like 'Tittle Hännas', suddenly there's gonna be some sort of paragraph written at the end. Are you kidding me?! I'm embarrassed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U180	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the theme setting is correct: the issue of pay for sports judges has been up for years. I guess it's hurt a lot of people in the sense that they've been paid a scholarship that's not classically correct. The way to move from scholarships to the correct system is right, but unfortunately, I think it's going to be a little wrong. It could be done better. The tax system will be changed, which we have deliberately kept simple and transparent. And this will be changed by introducing a distinction, although this could be done in a much simpler way, leaving the tax system unchanged and increasing targeted support for sport organisations to help solve the problem. However, the current system appears to be more harmful to sport organisations. The reality is that most sports organisations that pay judges pay more than EUR 20. And that means that if, figuratively speaking, you want to pay 21 euros already, you have to pay all taxes on that amount. In other words, the problem of a sports organisation is not solved, but the pressure to find additional money to cover the tax liability arising from the contract of employment increases. My proposal is once again to consider this draft and, rather, to seek a solution in order to increase the amounts of subsidies on an ad hoc basis and to leave the tax system unchanged. I am also concerned that when, at first reading, we drew attention to the weaknesses of the draft and offered to allow them to be corrected in the meantime, these observations were not taken into account. For example, the one thing we have been talking about for years and what we have been trying to keep in mind is the principle that we do not write specific sums of money into the law. 20 euros today is not 20 euros tomorrow. It is therefore not practical to write specific amounts of money into the law; it could be replaced by a coefficient. The second thing that this EUR 20 has come from in the first place is that much has been raised in previous discussions. I also argue that most sports judges are actually paid more than EUR 20. Maybe that amendment wouldn't solve the problems. And another bottleneck. The topic is still that if, for example, a sports judge receives EUR 1000 per year from one sports federation for the work of a judge and EUR 1000 per year from the other, he must declare it. But is there any way to ensure that the judge really does it? I have a feeling this regulation might not work. There are more of these tiny nuances in this bill, and I would advise the initiators to look at it with a critical eye. To sum it up. Of course, as a person closely involved in the field of sport, I would once again like to thank the Government and the Ministry of Culture and other actors for putting this issue on the table and trying to solve the problem. I thank you for this and I think this is the right initiative, but let us consider another option. We are considering this option of ad hoc support and we are not making any distinction in the tax system. This could create an additional precedent and, in the future, create more tax distinctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U182	Tarmo Kruusimäe continues the negotiations on bill 534.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U183	Good front speaker! Good folklore! There's plenty of wisdom here for all of us. Now, if this wisdom could somehow be put together and passed on to the people who are in the Committee on Culture, then everything would be a winch. Yes, the waitress was not eloquent and it is clear that the sports coach is not the most important thing for her. Olympiasangar referred to three pillars here, and I say that one of the most important is will. Our young talent's sport career is interrupted during their teenage years: when they are 14-15, they lose any will to exercise. This will can be boosted by friendship meetings and why not by organising charitable sporting events, and it would be good if a qualified judge could be invited there, but there is no money. Lauri was right the most. In that sense, Lauri, your story was the best and the Olympic hangar got a silver medal, Jürgen's in the first moon. I want to talk about football, football disease, and that a lot of football fans have volunteered to be a football judge. How many goodwill events are being done: we play for this or for the benefit of another, we may be able to send some kind of money to SOS Children's Village. But to this sports judge who actually plays elsewhere, we don't have a fee to offer. At this point in time, this is a small measure, we are talking about EUR 1040 a year. I'm not a sports judge, and I think a woman obviously would tell me, no, no way! All my life, I've only been doing some volunteer work... driving in for my money, driving back for my money. There is simply no basis to reward this voluntary activity of mine. I say again: we must be able to keep them at sport at this difficult time when our sports talents are 14 to 15 years old. But one of the drawbacks is that we cannot afford to hire judges. If we give the sports federations more money, will this change the situation? Yes, it is a public secret that the judges in the Estonian Football Association receive remuneration in the tickets to the games because there is no money. But that's not why the sacred work isn't missed. The fact that this bill is currently being drafted and that we prefer sport to some extent to other hobbies is, in my opinion, a good thing. We're talking about public health. I'm not subjugating any beautiful art at all, but I'm convinced that participation in a graphic design circle, for example, doesn't increase as much vigour as football, where a fighting spirit dominates, and 2 × 45 minutes has to run, because it's teamwork. Yesterday, we were all watching football and we were wondering if Lewandowski was the cool guy. If we could think to some extent about this important problem, that there must be support specialists in addition to the judges. Why am I saying this? I arranged for Joel Lindpere to meet young people four or five years ago. Joel says he's not talented, he's hardworking. But some of the brothers who really had the ball on their feet, and who pointed it where you wanted to, just gave up at one point. Perhaps this measure, which we are currently discussing, will help to get sports judges to pay some kind of remuneration, whether it is a whistle or a chain money or compensation for bus and coach travel to the place and back or some of the gas money. We don't know if this'll help. So if you have all kinds of good proposals, the implementation of which would not create excessive bureaucracy, let me know. Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U184	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U185	Thank you! So the proposals are welcome. But if we're going to go over it, we're going to forget about it. We forget it, we sit in a chair peacefully, we enjoy it when an Estonian athlete brings a medal, but unfortunately we have to admit that we ourselves have not done anything to promote sport. But we're good because ours brought a medal! Let's forget all our differences and think about how we can give our young people more credit! And right now, I'm talking about young people, but I can also talk about seniors who, for example, go to Kristiine district to play table tennis. They need a judge, too. Perhaps an elderly, highly qualified coach would be a judge if he were told that he would get 20 euros for it. At least you can explain to your spouse why he was present. My husband asks why you're going there. He says that I was allowed to pay 20 euros for this because the Riigikogu passed such a fine law that it is now possible to pay a fee free of income tax. See, that's what men were like! Let us be such men and women in this Riigikogu that we understand! It is good to have a sport in a golden, dignified age if we value it as members of the parliament. I propose that we support this draft. Everything I know about it, I'll pass it on to Victoria. I hope that the Committee on Culture will also invite a judge to its sitting. And don't invite the president of the union of judges! He comes and talks about a Euro-Cancelle talk that no one understands: we still improve and promote, etc. Invite a ref! I suggest, for example, that Tom be called Rahula, who is insanely awesome. Besides making a band, he's always whistling. It would be nice if Tom could really get gas money to whistle in Põlva or in Valga for some sports club tryout where little punks play football with each other. This 20 euros does not compensate for the cost of petrol if you have to drive back and forth along the Valga highway in Tallinn, but to some extent the pain will be paid. Most importantly, the Republic of Estonia will be 100 years old. Does the State recognise voluntary sports judges? It is good that we can answer: yes, the Republic of Estonia has noticed you, the voluntary judges, and we have done everything we can. We can't gold you, but we can give you 20 euros a week at a sporting event. And by the end of the year, the hardest of them will receive a total of 1040 euros! It's Christmas time. Christmas peace to you! Let's think about volunteer judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U186	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Half an hour ago, I didn't even think I'd be speaking on this. But when I listened to this debate, there was something I could hear, and so I started to think that I needed to say something. We are discussing similar things in principle methodologically, but one proposal that is considered useful is said to create inequality. And the fact that inequality is being created is a pretension. At the same time, I remember exactly that an hour and a half ago, a representative of the same group criticised the intention of creating equality. At the end of the day, decide what you want! Do you want equality or inequality? What is good and what is bad? It can't be that one time it's good and the other time it's bad. Next, the methods used. I don't do sports much, but of course I know coaches. Is it really right to call this remuneration an envelope salary? Why don't we define what the envelope salary really is? Can an envelope wage be in the law somewhere, isn't it like pulling a rabbit's ear out of a hat? If, at the beginning, it is assumed that this is an envelope wage, then a few sentences later will be categorically stated: this is an envelope wage! What are we talking about? A year ago, when I tried to understand what I had to deal with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I broke all the laws of our sphere in the Official Journal of the State. Open up and see how many times the Income Tax Act has been amended! I don't remember now, and I didn't have a chance to refresh my memory either, but there are 120-130 times, and this major repair took place, if I'm not mistaken, in 2006 and 2007. And before that, it was exactly the same. The legislative process is alive, there are thoughts all the time. They all need to be supported by everyone. Everyone wants to support their sphere. We represent different spheres, and that is why there is a certain balance here, but all the time these changes are coming. So to say that this sets a precedent ♪ this precedent has already been established dozens of times. Dozens of times! You're saying this is a minor change. But open up and see, the tax laws are made up of minor changes! I would also like to talk about one more question that sounded like this: is it right that the Committee on Culture deals with the tax law? I have the same question. Every time, for some reason, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has to deal with, for example, the Packaging Act or the Tobacco Act, I feel that we are taking bread from the Committee on the Environment or the Social Affairs Committee. But we have solved this question. This has been resolved in such a way that when a bill comes in, we have the board of the Riigikogu of our choice who will decide what committee is involved in this matter. If there is a desire to change this mechanism, it needs to be started. If there is a desire to change the lead committees, then we will change the mechanism, and let us not go now to the Committee on Culture to which the draft has been put! It's not like he chose it. Yes, what I said went past this bill and the proposals that are there and which I personally support, but suddenly this debate became much more interesting than could be expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U188	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U189	Ladies and gentlemen, The 'behaviour strategy' of the Committee on Culture has been analysed so strongly that, as chairman of the committee, I simply had to come up with a remote control to clarify a few things. First of all, I fully understand when it is said that there should be no mutiny in the monetary sphere and in tax policy. I remember very well that, a few years ago, it wasn't the current government, it was very fashionable. I remember how we received not only letters in the field of sport, but also letters in the field of science, so don't write in the Euro projects that you have salary, that you have a scholarship, that it is tax-free, etc. There was such a mess, good friends, a lot. And I'm glad it's gone down a lot. Now the second question: we were accused, like we had not discussed the financial side. Hey, we really didn't discuss this! The draft law was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance. We also asked separately what the position of the Ministry of Finance is, whether this may not be a return to some previous government practice, is it really acceptable? We were explained simply and clearly that this scheme corresponds to the Ministry of Finance's understanding of tax matters. It has also been explained to us that if you open a box today and want to improve one point, for example, in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, there will be a group of people who say, for example, why aren't the conditions of navigation being improved on all the seas of the world and all at once? This bill explained that it does not solve all sports problems. But we have a certain number of voluntary sports judges who are indeed less insured and who have a pretty heavy duty to be judges. Also, we are now being proposed to decide whether half an egg or an empty shell. There is no egg filling and it is now proposed that we still pick empty cream, maybe it will be better, cleaner and clearer. Good friends! We do not solve all the problems in the world at once, but we manage the processes and step by step approach to the solutions and better organisation that are more appropriate to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U190	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. Aadu Black was just talking about the decision of the board. As a representative of the Board of the Riigikogu, I announce that we knew in giving this task to the Committee on Culture that this draft had been prepared with the Ministry of Finance. Two proposals have been put forward to amend bill 534. Let's go through them together. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture. Decision of the Governing Commission: take full account. Another amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Culture. Decision of the Governing Commission: take full account. The amendments to draft 534 have thus been examined. The commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 534, but in the meantime the Chair received a statement from the Group of the Estonian Reform Party proposing to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act 534. This leads to the need to vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Sport Act and the Income Tax Act 534. Please take a stand and vote. [[Baby crying in the hall.]] We already have one vote. 23 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 51 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 534 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U191	Today's 13th item is the second reading of the Bill 357 on Amendment to the Tobacco Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Viktor Vassilyev, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, would like to present the speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Tobacco Act and the Amending Act are not the most burning problems that would directly jeopardise the existence of the Estonian people and the state. However, it is an important matter because nearly 20% of our people who directly violate their health and a large number of people who are forced to ruin their health as passive smokers without having any fun at the same time. Therefore, some reasonable restrictions on tobacco consumption and sales are fully understandable. The amendment of the Tobacco Act was initiated almost a year ago. My task now is to describe what has happened between the first reading and the second reading, i.e. how the commission, or the Committee on Social Affairs, has dealt with the draft law amending the tobacco law. The first reading of the draft act took place on 8 February this year, with the deadline of 15 March 2017. The Riigikogu members Madis Milling, Aivar Kokk, Tiina Kangro and Einar Vallbaum submitted their amendments within the deadline. Madis Milling tabled 14 amendments and then withdrew four of them. The Social Affairs Committee asked for the opinions of the interested parties involved and its opinions on the draft were sent by the following organisations: NGO Child Protection Association, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Association of Tobacco Producers, Estonian Traders Association, The International Network of Nicotine Consumer Organizations, Consumer Protection Board, NGO E-cigareti Sellers and Users Association, Law Office LEXTAL, Law Office Ellex Raidla, Dannemann Cigarrenfabrik GmbH, Estonian Small Traders Association, Cigari Maja OÜ, World Health Organisation European Regional Bureau, Estonian Patent Attorneys' Society and RRLektus AS. Individuals have also submitted a large number of written submissions and comments on the draft. The draft law amending the Tobacco Act was last discussed by the Commission on 23 November with representatives of the Estonian Small Traders' Association. The proposed ban on the display of tobacco products and products related to tobacco products was a discussion. Small traders were concerned because the state has put in place and is putting in place a number of regulations which, in their opinion, call into question the preservation of small shops. The precise way to ensure compliance with the requirements of the display ban is left to the discretion of the specific retail shop and does not require the remodelling of the whole store. In order to facilitate compliance, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Traders' Association will draw up guidance materials for retailers in cooperation with the Estonian Traders' Association. It is possible to use different technical solutions, such as closed containers on the counter or under the counter, sliding doors, closed dispensers, lockers, closures, etc. A price list showing the name and price of the product in verbal form may be displayed at the point of sale. The Commission found that the memo of the Estonian Small Traders' Association "31000 signatures were collected for the protection of land shops' contains a number of very complex issues which must be addressed in cooperation with the Committee on Rural, Financial and Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. On 3 November, the Ministry of Justice proposed to supplement § 1 and § 29 (1) 191 of the Tobacco Act, which prohibit smoking in prison and its restricted area. The Commission discussed this proposal of the Ministry of Justice at the meeting and decided unanimously not to bring this issue into the draft, as the issue of banning smoking in prison is currently before the Supreme Court. In the course of the procedure, the Social Affairs Committee addressed the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to get their views on whether the ban on exhibits is constitutional. According to the Legal and Analytical Department, the ban on exhibits is not contrary to the Constitution. In the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the ban on exhibits constitutes a certain violation of the Constitution, but there is no contradiction with the Constitution. At its meeting on 23 November, the Commission also discussed the proposal made by Maxima Eesti OÜ on the provisions for the entry into force of the draft law and decided to amend § 2 "Entry into force of the Bill' by replacing 1 January 2019 with 1 July. Maybe it should come into effect six months later. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft for the preparation of the second reading at eight sessions, so a lot of work has been done and hard work has been done. The Commission has heard all interested parties. There were quite interesting debates within the committee itself, opinions were presented, but in the end we discussed all the proposals and decided to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary for the second reading, i.e. by 6 December, today, and to propose that the second reading be stopped. That's all for me at first.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U193	Aivar Chef opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U194	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! It's a simple question. The Small Traders' Association has submitted its proposals as well as a letter of formal notice with 30,000 signatures. There is also a letter on my desk that four committees should discuss this on 9 January. How, then, will it be possible to conclude the second reading today if we discuss this issue again in January?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U195	Good colleague! I can say so much that the Commission has discussed this issue, the vote took place and the Commission took the relevant decision, considering that this is possible. I am responsible for the decisions of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U196	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! In essence, regular cigarettes and electronic cigarettes are treated as equivalent to the draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs has decided that electronic cigarettes are as harmful as regular cigarettes. However, no studies have been carried out in Estonia. How can we adopt a law based on assumptions and assumptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U198	Thank you, dear colleague Madis Milling. Your proposals, which, in my opinion, concerned exclusively electronic cigarettes, have been discussed and taken into account by the Commission in doing so, both the opinions of foreign specialists and the opinions of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Commission has voted on these proposals as it has decided.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U199	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U200	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There were quite a number of amendments tabled and behind them is the voice of a very large number of people. Could you mention an amendment that takes into account, for example, the wishes of small traders or the wishes of other interested parties involved? I have not found that any of the proposals have been taken into account when examining the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U201	Thank you for this question. If the Commission takes a negative decision in the course of the procedure, this does not mean that the opinion of the grouping has not been taken into account. Stakeholders were mostly represented at Commission meetings, they had the opportunity to speak and they did so. These opinions were taken into account, but the Commission's decision was the same as it did at the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U202	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U203	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Has the Commission also discussed how this sale of hidden cigarettes should start to reduce the purchase of cigarettes in the future? As a former, very keen smoker, I can tell you that it doesn't matter whether these packages are hidden or not. This is bullshit. When I still needed cigarettes, I woke the neighbor up at midnight to ask for cigarettes. Is there a study on this, or is there just some subjective opinion that if we hide cigarettes in a closed closet or under the counter, the buying of cigarettes is gonna go down a lot?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U204	Thank you! Hidden selling is a bit of a weird expression. But those restrictions that impose a legislative amendment are not total restrictions. They do not prohibit the sale of cigarettes, they do not prohibit the notification. A list of available tobacco products with their prices may be displayed at the store. In general, when a smoker comes to the store, he knows what he wants to get, and he asks for two packages of Marlboro Light or Camel, or whatever, and that limit doesn't stop him at all. But there is a world of experience in the way tobacco products are collected in one way or another and taken into account. As I said, the Commission has been working on this bill for almost a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U205	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U206	Dear Chairman, thank you very much. Good co-worker, waitress from the Commission! To ensure that this does not sound wrong, I want to clarify one thing, in the light of the question of Aivar Koka concerning the strange decisions of our committee, and I will finally ask you if that is the case. When small merchants came to the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee, they were surprised that the issue was tobacco law. They wanted to talk about smuggling, cross-border trade, they wanted to talk about the disappearance of shops, post offices and parish houses, the possibility of life in Estonia at all. With regard to the amendment of the tobacco law, they said that a curtain or the fact that we already have a piece of cigarettes in the drawer wouldn't disturb them. Consequently, on the 9th day, the Commission decided to convene a number of committees, all of whom are concerned by the concerns of small traders. In fact, they were surprised that the Committee on Social Affairs was doing this. So the advisors who advised them and supported them in submitting such a petition probably misdirected a little. Is that why the Commission decided this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U207	Thank you, good Helmen, for a good question. And I have to say that it really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U208	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I realized that despite no studies on e-cigarettes have been carried out in Estonia, the Commission decided by vote that e-cigarettes are as harmful as regular cigarettes. Agreed, the Commission is the Commission. But I ask you, as a doctor, which is more harmful, is it regular cigarettes or electronic cigarettes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U210	Thank you for your excellent question. At the meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs, which took place between the first reading and the second reading, there were no votes on my opinion as a doctor. And I do not have any paper at my disposal to confirm that the Commission has taken a decision on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U211	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! To begin with, I am very anti-tobacco and I am certainly not in favour of smoking in one way or another. But on 1 May, we began to have an amendment that says that cigarette packs have 'ugly pictures' that draw people's attention to the recommendation to make smarter choices. Companies have made quite a lot of money to change tobacco and smoke packages. Now we're gonna say we're gonna put these ugly-picture packages in a drawer. However, this gives the impression that this first cost made by producers was unreasonable. How do these two measures support each other and how much do we reduce smoking when packages with ugly pictures are out of sight? Is it wise to put them in the drawer now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U213	Thank you. This is an excellent and very fundamental question and, in fact, much wider than the context in which you put it. It may as well be asked whether the costs incurred to develop the Pentium V processor were targeted. You've come with more powerful and better computers. Apple's gonna come up with a full-on. It was a time when these ugly images were considered important. The concept that it is more sensible to hide tobacco products has now come. One of you isn't really bothering me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U214	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U215	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Both coalition and opposition ambassadors smoke. My question is why in the Commission are you repressing our dear little coalition partner, IRL, whose three proposals from the three members you have sent to the trash bin. One of them is the good colleague Aivar Kokk, who is the chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U216	Thank you for your excellent question. We have not repressed Aivar Kokka because he is the chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs. We have knowingly based on the proposed amendments. The Commission discussed them several times and adopted its decisions by voting. And voting didn't always take place like 100% of the proposals went into the trash. The voices were split. So they did some pretty serious work. The Commission does not want to repress anyone. We are still talking about the content of the matter, and we will come to decisions on the basis of disputes and discussions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U217	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U218	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Has the attitude that electronic cigarettes are as harmful as regular cigarettes come from the Ministry of Social Affairs? It is not treated as an alternative. In that case, I ask your opinion as a passionate smoker: do you also think that an electronic cigarette is as harmful as a regular smoke? You're a medic, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U219	Thank you for a good question. Again, my preferences have not been discussed by the Commission and there have been no votes or decisions on this issue. However, with regard to the question of whether tobacco products and tobacco-like products have an equal impact, no one has claimed that. It is obvious that electronic cigarettes have a lower health-damaging effect, but they have some health-harming effect, and that is why it has been decided to limit its use.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U220	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U221	I will continue on the subject raised by the last two questions. In short, if the rapporteur is a doctor, if he has taken an oath from Hippocrates, it does not matter whether he is a member of the Commission or a chairman, whether he represents the Commission's views or not. The doctor is a doctor 24/7 as long as he's breathing. So any answer you have to the style that I don't answer because it wasn't discussed in the committee is a direct violation of the medical oath. That's why I'm asking you, the doctor who took the Hippocrates oath, if e-cigarette is as dangerous as regular cigarettes. Can we say that by protecting e-cigarette, we are avoiding tobacco risks to some extent? You're obliged to answer that because you have a diploma.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U222	Thank you, my good colleague. Not only do I have a diploma, I have a license. The most important principle of the doctor is noli nocere, or do not cause harm. And when you listened carefully to my reply to Mr Kruusimäe, you heard that I said that they were not of equal health concern. However, electronic cigarettes are a relatively new thing, but tobacco, at least in European opinion, has been consumed for some 500 years. Thus, the risks associated with tobacco are known with far greater precision than those of electronic cigarettes. But in this I agree with you, and I have never kept it from anyone, nor in the Committee on Social Affairs, that electronic cigarettes are much safer than other tobacco products. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U223	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U224	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! Can you tell us what kind of message we give to society if we knowingly tax less harmful products at a higher rate so that they reach the same price level as the more harmful ones? Is the message that we want to measure everything in one measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U225	Thank you. A person can kill himself by throwing a gun, a gun or a machine gun or under a tank. Neither one nor the other nor the third is good. Electronic cigarettes, like tobacco products, are not essential goods. Smoking is a free choice for a person, and if he decides that he wants to do so, he can pay more for it. To a certain extent, electronic cigarettes also have such a trendy taste, and such things cost a little more. Just so I ask you more about what? The bread or the bread or the milk? This is a behaviour which is harmful to health, and since the State has decided that harmful behaviour is subject to excise duty, it is subject to excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U226	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U227	Thank you. On the one hand, it is, of course, nice to hear these encouraging speeches, which call for improvements in public health. But was it also discussed in the committee that the Riigikogu could set an example here and that smoking could be banned in Riigikogu buildings and territory?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U228	Thank you, that's a good question! This has been discussed in the Commission. In particular, each authority has the possibility to limit tobacco consumption on its territory, as prisons have done, for example. The ban on smoking in prisons was an initiative of the prisons' own management, and no law was needed. In general, prison officials, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, consider smoking bans in prisons to be necessary, because smoking is a risk not only to their own health but also to the health of their guards and their fellow prisoners. It is precisely in the interests of health that smoking is banned in prisons, just as in the interests of health, prisoners receive free dental care, which is very nice. The Riigikogu is also an authority and, as a person is sent to prison for a certain time by the decision of the judge representing the people, people are sent to the Riigikogu to represent the people for a certain time. It is sometimes possible to get rid of the prison before the deadline and this possibility is quite often used, and the Riigikogu is rarely left before the deadline. But like in the prison house, it is possible to regulate smoking procedures in one way or another at the discretion of the administration of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U229	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U230	Let's go back. Machine guns, guns, etc. According to my knowledge, all people in the world have died of something. No man has gone to the grave in health. There's always been something wrong. One of the peculiarities of a liberal society is that a person has a free choice to choose how and how he dies. I do not accept the position of any government or any committee on how I have to die. I'm gonna die differently anyway. In this respect, I would like to emphasise once again that I am not at all in favour of completely banning smoking in the Riigikogu. That could be allowed again at least in the second floor cafeteria. It would restore the cozy and cozy that's always been here before. Smoke up, there's nothing wrong with it! This "passive" smoking is unscientific bullshit. Therefore, in the light of what you have done so far, would it be more liberal regulation for e-cigarettes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U231	Thank you. Your question actually consists of two sides. First of all, of course, no state power can prevent a human being from dying. Except that no matter how happy a person is to break his or her health, before he or she dies, he or she usually asks for medical care and thus causes additional costs for society. However, as far as the Riigikogu cafe is concerned with smoking, talking about stupid anecdotes, harassment of women and other such fine things, they are governed by other laws and do not concern this bill. Smoking has long been banned in a place where food and drink are distributed. There's nothing we can do about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U232	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U233	Thank you. Honourable performer! Doesn't it seem to you that our fellow lawyer is a little wrestling, especially by claiming that you have to present the positions of the committee from the Riigikogu's speaking board as a doctor? I think the lawyer's wrong. If he fell down here, you'd have to act like a doctor and help him, do CPR, but I don't think the Commission's views need to be presented by looking through the prism of a doctor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U234	Thank you, good Heimar! You put me in an extremely difficult position. Indeed, I have taken the oath of Hippocrates, and I must help my colleague, Mr Gräzin, in his troubles. But he just made a statement that he didn't want to be resuscitated. But as far as a respected lawyer's point of view is concerned, that's what the lawyer's point of view is. They're exactly the way a lawyer always presents them. It all depends on whether he represents one side or the other in court. Which is why a lawyer represents one side or the other in a particular case, and I'm not going to stop here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U235	Thank you, honored waitress, for the enjoyable debate! Now the negotiations will follow, and the negotiators will inevitably give their diagnosis of the draft legislation that we are currently discussing. Please, Madis Milling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U236	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Smoking is a bad, horrible bad thing, no one doubts it. For the rest of my life, I'm sorry I started smoking in college first year. Now I haven't even picked up a cigarette in three years. I've found a replacement for it. It's an e-cigarette. No one has ever claimed that e-cigarette is a health product. Nobody! There are millions of people in the world who have tried to quit smoking. Statistics say that about 30%, or even less, will succeed. Most people don't, most people start smoking again. In order to make quitting smoother, there have long been a variety of helpful products on the market: nicotine chewing gums, nicotine patches and now also e-cigarettes in recent years. They help you quit smoking. Many people have decided to improve their own health as well as the situation of their loved ones, who have otherwise been passive smokers, and have started to consume e-cigarettes. Now, in the light of this bill, they discover that it doesn't matter, that everything is equally bad and harmful. No studies have been carried out in Estonia to deal with e-cigarettes. However, many of these studies have been carried out in Western Europe, Great Britain, and also in New Zealand. Britain has been relatively conservative in its health policy, but it has presented e-cigarette as a very good alternative to normal smoking and a tool for quitting smoking in public campaigns. The New Zealand Department of Health has announced that their plan to make the country tobacco-free by 2025 will play a very important role in e-cigarettes. We equate e-cigarettes with regular cigarettes. VAT is not the subject of this bill, but I note that by adding value added tax to e-cigarette products, the consumption of e-cigarettes has been made more expensive than the consumption of conventional tobacco. But what does a man do? Man chooses. The smoker, who has given up regular cigarettes whose children are no longer passive smokers at home, now sees that wow, e-cigarette is more expensive than regular cigarettes, and makes his choice. I am not talking about excise duty now, because it is not the subject of this draft. The three main points of this draft law are as follows: Point 1: Put e-cigarette products under the counter. Okay, I'm not even gonna argue with that, it's okay. However, regular cigarettes do not need any publicity. As Mr Vasilyev said on the remote, when a person goes to the store, he knows what to ask, such as Marlboro Lights or Camel. However, e-cigarette products are less known as alternatives to conventional smoking and the smoker may not know that there is a safer alternative. Next, point 2: Prohibition of distance selling of e-cigarette products, i.e. online sales. The e-cigarette shops in Tallinn can be read on the fingers of two hands, and you can buy regular cigarettes in any place. It's worse on Earth. There are no e-cigarette shops, people order these products online. Cigarettes are sold at every gas station, burger stand and shop. In essence, let us put consumer concerns aside for a moment! After all, this also means encouraging the ordinary tobacco industry. Third point: we prohibit the tastes of e-cigarette fluids. Look, it would be like banning beers, ciders, wines and cognacs to fight alcoholism and selling only green vodka at the store. It's basically the same. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U237	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U238	This is not a measure. Main postulates. The Ministry of Social Affairs has not carried out an analysis of e-cigarettes and is based on a Green Paper which barely deals with e-cigarettes. E-cigarettes are at least 95% less harmful than conventional cigarettes, according to studies conducted in other parts of the world. According to studies, e-cigarette consumers are almost exclusively adult former smokers. The use of e-cigarettes does not harm the health of people standing by; e-cigarette does not involve passive smoking. I'm not going to talk about underground trade right now, and if we ban the tastes of e-cigarette fluids, people will mix them themselves. My final message is: do not harm those who have decided to quit smoking regular cigarettes. As a result of the far-reaching effects of this bill, they return to regular cigarettes. And it doesn't add up at all to the alleged purpose of this bill to improve public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U239	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U240	Good President! Good folklore! I can't say that Madis took the words away from me because I always have enough. I'll pick up where Madis left off. In spite of all of you who want to pass this law, I will not smoke normally. In spite of you, I've decided to love my family and my loved ones. I don't have to come out of the mouth of a tobacco sword, so my people at home should suffer. In spite of you, I love my family, and that's why I use e-smokers. You can deny it. I've survived the occupation, and as you can see, I'm here, alive and well. You're gonna leave me a chance to bring some e-smoker liquids across the border, and that's what I'm gonna do, of course. And I'm not ashamed that I'm gonna ask the acquaintances to be good and bring them to me. Because I'm one of the 101 cops who forbids something they don't know much about. Right now there's only two people in the hall who know what e-smokers are, others think they know what it is. A couple of colleagues here have secretly tried mine and said that really, quite interesting thing. I have told people that understand, in the Ministry of Social Affairs, absolutely all things that they have no understanding of. I recall that in 1917 when the Socialists came to power in Russia, they forbade God because they did not understand God. At the moment, they find no coherence between e-state and e-smoker. And since it's incomprehensible to them, it's easier and more convenient to ban it. However, the message to consumers is confusing. The chairman of the party and the minister, who is himself a chain smoker, speak very convincingly about the importance of public health and how much he thinks about the fact that fellow smokers are all suffering because they have somehow remained passive smokers. The Royal College of Doctors in England has conducted over 400 such studies. The Estonian Ministry of Social Affairs has carried out a cellular study. And in order for the result to be appropriate and to serve the declared goal, the quantity was increased 16 times, according to some data, 25 times. So simplified: we know that kefir may contain alcohol, and when we talk about one-and-a-half-billion drinks, we could ban kefir. The only thing is, we forget to tell you how much kephir you have to slop in to make this one-and-a-half-billion drink. In general, this test will be completed prior to the fatality of the human being. The Royal College of Doctors in England has concluded that e-cigarettes pose a 95% lower risk than regular cigarettes. E-cigarette may be equated with nicotine-containing rodent gum and nicotine patch. I'm only speaking for myself right now and for those friends who have quit smoking thanks to e-cigarette. And the case of e-cigarettes at first and after regular cigarettes, I don't know, although I'm moving a lot in the company that smokes both on and on. But I do know the examples that a person has gone from a regular cigarette to an e-smoker... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U241	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U242	Thanks! My own exposure to e-smokers started because I went to oral surgery. The doctor said, "Don't smoke for four days, please, because hot steam can damage growing cells." I borrowed an e-smoker from someone, went to an e-smoker store and bought a plum-flavoured smoke. I suck and I suck and I wonder what the hedge is like some kind of plum soup steam. And I feel like I have a need. If there's a person passing by who may have smoked for five minutes, I can feel the drool running. I understand, I have a physical addiction to nicotine. But I bought myself this liquid and I smoked a regular cigarette next door. I've noticed that a lot of smokers have one particular rule: no matter when you buy it, a pack a day always goes. Come on! The popular brothers, of course, say that it's going to be two or three packages, and lucky for me, it didn't go that far. Now I've gone on an e-smoker and I don't feel the need for normal. At the same time, I had already reduced the amount of nicotine when, in January of this year, news came that the Riigikogu wanted to ban e-smokers or equalise them with the usual ones. One of the first funny thoughts was that they want to ban e-smoker like a normal smoke: it must not be done on the window and on the balcony. E-smooth machine costs 47 euros. I can see why you can't smoke a cigarette on a window or throw it under a bong, the wind could take it downstairs, it could go into the curtains, and there could be a fire. Can you really imagine that a person gets paid so hard that after using every e-smoker, he throws it out the window? No, it's re-usable. Good banners and masters and hangers! Maybe you don't have a personal experience right now. I think if you asked in today's session whether to ban smartphones, you'd obviously ban them too. Let's face it, a lot of bad things are born of smart phones! Young people are not moving, they are no longer doing sports, and we can still find these arguments. Give us two liters of hot brand coffee, and we'll give you 6,000 arguments why you should ban smartphones! Similarly, women's spears could be banned because they affect me very differently as a man. We cannot rely on a personal perspective if we do not have a personal experience. I do not support this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U243	Please, Maris Lauri! Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U244	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, As soon as this bill to amend the tobacco law came, I felt like I wanted to talk about it. Why? I have a very personal and very unfriendly relationship with tobacco. I've never smoked a single cigarette in my life, but I've been forced to be a passive smoker for 18,5 years at my youngest age. And, you know, maybe the scariest part about it is when you hear your loved ones cough, and then after coughing, there's silence and you wonder if he's still alive or dead. It was when I was a kid. You don't know how the mechanism works, but it was ugly. And that's why I'm asking you to think about it! The second thing is that two people who are very close to me have left us because of lung cancer. And I assure you, this is not a very pleasant way to leave. It's painful. Hunger and suffocation last for days, weeks, and sometimes for months. Think about it! I wanted to talk about it because I think tobacco is a harmful substance and I really hope that we will eventually get to the point of no tobacco being consumed. But I don't like this bill. I'll explain why. I understand that the drafters prepared it with good will, but their approach is a bit narrow-minded or kind of twisted in a different way. There was an issue that came up again and again in several debates in the Commission, and I could not get this disturbing attitude out of my mind. It was always argued that this bill and all these restrictions were needed because young people would not start smoking. I also want young people not to smoke. As Mr Madis has already said, and as we ourselves know, one time you will take it and it will be very difficult to leave behind afterwards. The problem is that the draft has forgotten people who are already addicted to tobacco. I deliberately use the word 'dependence' because tobacco use is addictive, just as excessive alcohol consumption or drug use is addictive. To get rid of addiction, a person must first realize that he has a problem, that he is addicted. And then he has to have the will to get rid of that addiction, and then he's going to take action. I don't remember how many times the ministry officials asked the Commission what the state was doing to help get rid of the addiction. The first minister's answer was perhaps the most relief. He said we had pharmacies and there's Band-Aids. There can be no more incompetent answer! Luckily, on the third or fourth time, I got some material, and I talked to the officer. He agreed with my conclusion that we are doing very little to help people get rid of this addiction. That's a shame. That is the biggest problem with this draft: one thing is being dealt with, the problem is not being looked at in a wider, more comprehensive, complex way. Moreover, it was also very difficult to deal with this draft. When you asked a question that might have been interpreted as a question of some claim, you were basically told that it was sometimes hidden behind words, but in attitude it was certainly discernible that you were either stupid and could not understand things or that you were bought, affected by cigarette and other tobacco manufacturers. It was insulting, because it's not! It cannot be that one person is always right and others are never right. It cannot be that I have no right to ask and question claims that seem unconvincing. Unfortunately, that is the feeling I had repeatedly experienced during the procedure for this bill. It is a fact that we had, in principle, two interest groups represented there. First, manufacturers and so-called their satellites, i.e. their affected groups. The attitude of the Ministry of Social Affairs was, in my opinion, rigid. There were no substantive answers to a lot of questions. The answers were a little bit arrogant, a little bit undertone, so how can you not understand that this is the case? This was especially felt when the question was one for which they did not actually have a substantive answer. And there was also the so-called other side that fought for life so that no change would come. This is the part where you can tell me it hurts to visit. There the border was crossed, and this made it difficult and almost impossible to discuss within the Commission at certain moments. In my opinion, there was only one substantive Commission debate. There were comments about one or the other, but there was only one discussion where we were essentially discussing. And unfortunately, the thoughts expressed there did not come to any of the amendments, or at least to a substantive discussion, that suddenly, however, we should make a difference in this draft, so that suddenly we can make something better. I have no conviction that this bill is the best of all possible. We really see dangers that will hurt at some point. A few previous speakers have spoken about this: smuggling, etc. And that is why I think we could discuss and think about this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U245	Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U246	Honourable Vice President! I'll be very brief. The real situation in the world is that people smoke less and less. I don't think that's why you shouldn't feel sad, even for smokers like me. It's good when people smoke less. It is not healthists that are concerned about this, but the tobacco industry, which is trying to introduce new products that are different, of a different nature, new and interesting instead of traditional tobacco products. And there is actually only one question before us: are we going to let them on the Estonian market or not? The position of Estonian health guards is that we should not do this. This is the real point of dispute. But the fact that the interests of the tobacco industry are violated shows their powerful lobbying. The best lobbyists in Estonia, the full professionals in their field, also work in the interests of the tobacco industry. They can influence both shoppers and delegates. But I came here on the remote because I want to congratulate my colleague, Mr Kojaman, on his successful speech. The statement and the item on the agenda were drawn together, and this is already a good achievement. But second, I want to recall the history of Estonia. The Constituent Assembly, which came together and began to represent the Estonian state, was mostly socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U247	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U248	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The previous performer was a passionate smoker, but I'm not a smoker, absolutely not. And I wouldn't have come here at all if I hadn't heard this passionate talk on TV in my room, as if e-cigarettes were a health product that was good for health and all that goes with it. I also remembered the dozens of e-mails that were all taken from one vault, literally the same, but sent by different people. This is nothing more than obvious lobbying and the desire to protect these tobacco products, even e-cigarette, is still a tobacco product. Question: are we now dealing with some kind of very harsh ban? On one side of the hall, it's like they're complaining. I'm sorry, e-cigarettes aren't banned! Smoke all you want! Whether it's regular or e-cigarette, it's not forbidden! Indeed, as legislators, we here, who are responsible for the Estonian people, take a certain position, saying that yes, in our opinion tobacco products, whether they are strong or a little lighter, are not useful to our people. It is not wise to tempt young people, I don't know, with plum or cherry or any flavored liquid, to try and get used to going from there to other products. Those who are passionate pullers of e-cigarettes will find their tastes anyway, and it will certainly continue to be possible to do so. You'll pay a little more if you want to be friendly to your family. Maybe it's just a little bit more to pay for that benefit, and maybe later you'll stop really. In society, the trend is a little different. I remember the discussions in this Chamber. It is probably now over ten years ago, when all pubs, cafes and restaurants go bankrupt in Tallinn and elsewhere were discussed passionately here. This was a very passionate debate. Similarly, dozens of letters came to be able to smoke, and if you cannot smoke in the big hall, you must be able to smoke in the next room nearby. Well, that was exactly the same debate. And then there were a lot more smokers among the members of the Riigikogu and in society as a whole. We all remember that. Now the proportion of smokers has fallen dramatically, and we members of the Riigikogu, who are responsible for the Estonian people, are also behind it. Targeted action to ensure that there are fewer people involved with evils, so that the Estonian people are healthier. This determination has borne fruit, and it is very important. It is only natural now that no one in the tavern wants to smoke anymore, and they don't. A little over a year ago, we went to Prague with the Committee on Economic Affairs, which is also a city with a very beautiful old town, and we sat there in a pub on the Town Hall Square. And goddamn it, it was really disgusting to sit on the other side of the table. It was awfully unpleasant! The proportion of smokers is much higher in this society and this is not a pleasant sight. It is wise for us now to take the next step. There are fewer smokers among us, and it is our duty to continue to do so. However, we do not forbid it, it is such a growing soft pressure not to smoke. To be honest, there are also countries that are one step ahead of us. Take, for example, Norway, which soon wishes to declare itself a non-smoking country. A little talk about e-cigarettes not being available at all. A good colleague said, as he reached the end of the world revolution, that they could hardly be reached anywhere in Tallinn. In my constituency of Viljandi, there are three whole shops where you can buy e-cigarettes all you want. Availability is certainly not a question. You can get them anywhere. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U249	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U250	That's not a problem. One waitress, a good lady from the Reform Party, started by starting out that smoking is evil and finally came up with it to make sense to interrupt the procedure for this draft and not to take the next step to curb tobacco consumption. It's not constructive! Let us look at what we have done and take the next step! This step will certainly benefit us, our children, and future generations. This is not some kind of command or ban, it is very clearly soft pressure to reduce the pressure of smoking. I think the descendants thank us for making such decisions. So let us make good decisions and take these steps in the name of our people!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U251	Tarmo Kruusimäe has the right to object on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U252	Thank you! I mean, it doesn't sound very adequate when they say I'm a lobbyist when I'm talking about personal experience. I also said I had nicotine addiction. Rather, ordinary smokers are those lobbyists of tobacco companies who fear alternative products. I want to remind you that the e-smoker business is destructive. Thanks to e-smokers, the number of smokers is also decreasing, because people are constantly reducing the amount of nicotine, and in the end it feels like what you're still pulling in this soup steam, and they're giving up completely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U253	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U254	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not have any statement on this subject, but simply because there are so many wrong things put together here and it turns out that those who are in favour of this new law do not have a clear idea of what they want Maris said about it, so I am forced to fix some things. The others have already spoken. First of all, I didn't hear it once said that smoking at all and e-cigarette were useful. By the way, I did it to the maximum, and I'm gonna stick to the fact that a good smoke, a drink of vodka, and a sandwich of sprat are always pleasant. I'm sorry, I don't smoke anymore, but there's something to remember. It wasn't bad times, it wasn't bad times! Another thing was nicotine, tobacco, and other such things. Once again, deep incompetence! Tobacco manufacturers and e-cigarettes have nothing to do with each other. It would be comicical to assume that the U.S. Central Western tobacco lobby extends to Estonia to promote the non-use of tobacco in the form of e-cigarette advertising. In fact, there is no smoking of tobacco in e-cigarette, which is the basis for smoking. It's a nicotine product just like a patch and stuff like that. We will wait for the accent to be applied on the patch. Finally, when we live on earth, we do not have to choose between hell and paradise. You have to live here with the people we have. We do not have a choice between smokers and non-smokers; we have a choice to do if people want to limit their smoking. Question: What if it is not possible to quit smoking? By the way, actually, there's your tricks. Basically, alcohol consumption must also be monitored, for the desire to smoke begins to come back when you drink vodka. But if you can give it up, you'll lose smoking by yourself. I can confirm that. In short, if our goal is to make society healthier, which the creators of this law really do not want, then we should leave the e-cigarettes alone as a means of transition. And it's very good to have the right word in your constructive sense: e-cigarette is destructive. It's in the bison, which, without getting into our necks, leads to smoking less for smokers first and then even less for e-smokers and their children will not smoke at all. This is the dialectical path of social development, using Engels' words.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U255	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U256	Thank you. Hi, my name is Mikhail, I'm a tobacco addict. I guess that's the way it works, isn't it? Given that the last two presentations are mine today, I do not like the fact that this debate is slowing down, but I would like to say two things if I listened to you. There's one thing I understand. I understand that very often we don't think with our heads, but there are some trends in the world that are being taken over and they're spreading and they're just becoming some kind of fashion. Well, Chubby Checker sings his tvist once on the radio, and for a few years the whole world only dances tvist and listens to that music. It concerns both music and art. It's exactly the same in society. Somewhere somebody decides that one thing is harmful, the other one is harmful, but we're fighting this one, we're not fighting it. I've lived in a utility apartment for years, and I was that passive drinker. My neighbors were drunks. But this is one of life's inevitable facts. Sometimes you just can't choose and then you go and start changing a stranger's life. And it's getting fashionable. Today's democracy and liberalism lies first and foremost in the fact that we first decide what is right and then push it into everyone's head. And since it's inevitable, I'm not even going to protest here. I know it's not gonna work. But I have another thing. The first one I understand, the second one I don't understand. Every time someone starts talking about tobacco being harmful, I wonder: is it a single substance or a single product that is harmful? Some people here have said that everyone who smokes dies sooner or later. And I have to believe it because it really is. But that depends on smoking tobacco? I cannot agree with that. Some people die for a different reason. If I, who am paying a huge amount of excise duty and this supports our country's budget, gets a pack of cigarettes in front of my nose that makes me depressed, then I open it with my eyes closed, I take out cigarettes and put it in another package. But somebody's ever decided that the body on the deck was creepy, wasn't it? I'm gonna quit smoking. No, I'm not! I'm gonna make sure people don't carry cigarettes anymore. They've got cigars. That's the right move! I'm only sorry about the aunt who sells cigarettes around him in R-Kiosk. He doesn't smoke, but imagine how depressed he lives all the time! Why has the same method not been used for example butter? It's pure cholestatic. Anyone who eats it gets an extra batch. Put these crazy pictures on the butter carton so people know it's bad to eat. Sooner or later, we'll put the excise on. I mean, there are things that are absolutely impossible to fight. I understand that this has become fashionable, and so we fight smoking violently and without offering people a second perspective. We do not offer, as is the case in Japan, for example. If you do not smoke, you will receive a salary supplement, not paid by an entrepreneur, but paid by the state. We are not looking for such measures; we are doing what most do: raising excise duty, crazy pictures, banning, etc. It's just easier. And by looking at our whole lives, it also seems impossible to fight it. By the way, I must admit that much of what Mr Milling was talking about here is true. I've been doing this e-cigarette for a couple of years. In one month, you won't be breathing like this when you go up the hill. It really is! And maybe sometimes it's best not just to get information from one source to make some or other decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U257	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U258	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I have to admit, sadly, that I have no experience with cigarettes, tobacco or e-cigarette. No, it's not! And no tobacco company has called me, and no lobbying has been done. I'm waiting, but there hasn't been a single call. No one's bothered. Small merchants haven't called or written either, even though I know the men of all three chains very well. I haven't talked to them about it. But we're making laws here. I'd like no tobacco at all. I have to admit, when I was raising my daughters, I told them one thing: the boys you bring home are not allowed to smoke. Thank God none of my sons-in-laws smoke cigarettes. But if we ban, order and label, we should always see if it has an effect or not. I remember very well the debate that broke out in the Committee on Social Affairs when these ugly pictures were put on packs. Then the Green Paper was brought as an example: it was said that 30% of smokers would be reduced. The ugly pictures have been on smoke packs for a year and a little more, and it is claimed that 10 to 12% of smokers have fallen. But now we're gonna hide these ugly pictures, and the green paper says that the number of smokers is gonna fall by 0.12%. Only 0.12%! Look, we are in the European Union's open market and we need to see what colleagues are doing and neighbouring countries are doing. The impact of the increase in excise duty has already been felt: the Finns visited Estonia before, the Estonians now go to Latvia. Latvian and Lithuanian packages of cigarettes have not yet been hidden in shops. Finland has done so, and now I am waiting for someone to find out what has happened in Finland. I have to admit, I asked for it. Just as I asked about the six pack beer, when it was about changing the alcohol law and the advertising law, I asked about it. In Finland, this study has been carried out and it has been shown that hiding cigarette packs in the shop has not led to a reduction in smoking by an ounce.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U259	Good waitress! For a moment, I am interrupting and asking, above all, the attention of those colleagues on the left of the chair who are not listening to the waitress right now. If you have something very important to talk to each other, maybe you can do it outside this hall, otherwise it will be very difficult for even the manager to hear what the waitress says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U260	All such decisions should be based on research. I generally don't disagree. Once again, I don't like it when someone smokes next to me. My father smoked with varying success. When he was 45, he started smoking when he turned 75, then he quit smoking and lived for another 20 years. We never had a cigarette in our house, and Dad wasn't allowed to smoke in the car. There must be no passive smoking. Decisions will be taken in the Commission and also in this Chamber. At present, each one has to make a decision based on his conscience. But if we ban and order, it should be demonstrated that the solution will benefit people's health. If this has not been proven, there will be problems. Previously, there was a letter from small traders and a proposal that the four Commissions could discuss this issue on 9 January. The waitress in this bill was asked if it was true that this letter did not mention smoking. I ran into the room and took this petition with me. I must admit that about 80% of the text says that the problem of small traders is also that... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U261	Please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U262	I don't want to waste your time reading all this stuff. At the end of the letter, however, it is clear that we are asking for the ban on the display of tobacco products to be lifted and we propose that we find a more sensible solution that does not require so much investment from small shops. The whole subject of this petition is this. Yes, I admit that when small traders went to the Commission to talk, they were weak. I don't think they understood where the Commission came from. But we must clearly consider one thing: if we have a 30% reduction in smoking, which is the best for the Estonian state, just as the smoking men said that everyone would most likely want to abandon it, then we will hold 30% and show these ugly pictures! Let some of us keep our cigarettes in a cigarette shop, but let's not do anything stupid! 30% versus 0.12% I believe 30% is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U263	On behalf of the Socialists, please, Helmen Hunter! As a member of the Riigikogu? But still as a Social Democrat. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U264	Hello! Good evening to all good colleagues, including the President-in-Office. I certainly do not speak on behalf of the Socialists. I will perform as a member of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütina, but today, unfortunately, as head of the Social Affairs Committee. I would like to say that although Aivar, a good fellow official, said that small merchants were weak, there was no real occurrence. A deep bow to the small merchants, the three people who were on our committee! They were talking about their concerns, they were talking about smuggling, they were talking about cross-border trade. They were talking about the disappearance of postal services, they were also talking about the chain trade invasion of the country and their survival at all. They were really surprised that we were only talking about the curtain or the blind and some restrictions under the tobacco law, but not the wider problems. As head of the Social Affairs Committee, I am so sorry, Aivar! You put the bill on self-employed persons and board members just standing there and didn't process it for a year. And then the Chancellor of Justice went to court. Unlike you, the Committee on Social Affairs, and not on a party basis, but on a totally cross-party basis, decided that we should discuss this issue more widely and listen to small merchants. That is why we sent letters to the chairmen of these committees to hold a joint session, not only in the context of the amendment of the tobacco law, but to listen seriously. One skateboard or one cardinal, a small merchant who had arrived, said that he had cigarettes in his drawer anyway, otherwise they might be stolen. This requirement is not a problem for him. But he wanted to talk about smuggling, he wanted to talk about what other problems small traders have. I do not agree that you are objecting and saying, as I would have said, that the issue of smoke was not at all affected in their petition. Yes, of course, as part of the amendment of the tobacco law, they were able to give their opinion and talk about their concerns in the context of this law, but the problems were much wider. That is why we addressed three other committees. I would very much like to congratulate these good colleagues from the various committees to whom we have informed that representatives of small traders went to our committee to talk about their concerns. Once again, small traders were not weak. Read what we talked about in the record! We have always listened to all the opinions at the meetings of the Commission where we have talked about the tobacco law. And I thank the Members of the Commission very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U265	During the negotiations several members of the Riigikogu have found mention and these people will be able to speak in response. First, Madis Milling has a chance. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U266	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Stalnukhin for his very good speech. I am pleased to say that, for a long time, I agree with my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin, one hundred percent. Thank you for this understanding speech. But since an earlier speaker twisted my words, once again: I have never said today that e-cigarette is a health product and a horrible healthy thing. I've always said it's a safer alternative to smoking. Let's not assume, let's not assume! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U267	Aivar Chef wants to be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U268	Thank you. I just want to be more specific, and I'm very sorry if I was understood by the small traders to be weak. I meant it so that they may not have been able to deal with the issue of tobacco as it is today in this debate. However, the petition of small traders, which has been sent to the four committee chairmen today, clearly and fundamentally speaks of the problem of hiding tobacco products, and nothing else. I've got this petition on my desk. I'm not going to read it, but if anyone wants to, they can come and see who's telling the truth and who's not. However, the complaint that one draft had been standing in the Commission for a long time, in this case, must be looked at by two ministers. One of your parties, one of our parties. Since there was no agreement from the government, we could not discuss it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U269	All members of the Riigikogu have expressed their opinions during the second reading. The amendments now also need to be examined. The first amendment has been tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu, and the commission has ignored it. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U270	I am asking for this motion to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U271	Okay, I got it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U272	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your attention now. We will start voting on the amendments. The first amendment, made by Madis Milling, a member of the Riigikogu, has been rejected by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. 17 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 43 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second amendment, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. The proposal of the commission is disregarded, but it is not voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act. The third amendment, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. The Steering Committee has disregarded this and the proposal is also not to be voted on because of this section. The fourth amendment, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. The commission has disregarded this and unfortunately this proposal is not voted in accordance with the Riigikogu Home and Working Procedures Act. The fifth amendment was tabled by Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaum and Tiina Kangro, members of the Riigikogu. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U273	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U274	Got it! Let us begin the vote on the amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, how does it feel, can we go to the vote? We can go, there's no objection. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the fifth amendment tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Aivar Kokk, Einar Vallbaum and Tiina Kangro, which has been neglected by the leading committee. Please take a stand and vote. 19 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the amendment, 40 against and 3 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The sixth amendment is made by the Committee on Social Affairs and has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The seventh amendment, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. This was not taken into account by the commission and is not subject to the vote pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The eighth amendment, tabled by the members of the Riigikogu Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaum and Tiina Kangro. The commission did not take this into account, and we cannot vote on it in accordance with the paragraph already mentioned. The ninth amendment, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. The commission did not take this into account and we will not vote on it either. The tenth amendment, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. The Supreme Committee of the Riigikogu rejected this and the proposal is not to be voted in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 13, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, was fully taken into account by the lead committee. Amendment 14, tabled by Madis Milling. The commission did not take this into account, but according to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, we will not vote on it. Madis Milling also tabled the 15th amendment, which was rejected by the commission and which is not subject to the vote under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Amendment 16, tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. The commission did not take this into account and, in accordance with the paragraph already mentioned, it is not to be voted on. Amendment 17, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 18, tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs, was fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. Amendment 19, tabled by Aivar Koka, Einar Vallbaum and Tiina Kangro, members of the Riigikogu. This was not taken into account by the commission, but this amendment is not to be voted on in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Home Affairs Act. The commission has proposed that the second reading of the draft 357 be completed after examination of the amendments. The amendments have been examined, but we have received the proposal of the Riigikogu Reform Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft law amending the Tobacco Act. It needs to be voted on. Can we go to the vote? There are no objections. Dear members of the Riigikogu, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal 357 interrupting the second reading. Please take a stand and vote. 21 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal to interrupt, 44 members of the Riigikogu were against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 357 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U275	We will proceed to agenda item 14: Second reading of the draft law amending the law on bailiffs initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like a speech from Raivo Aegis, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U276	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, So let's start with the second reading of bill 280. The purpose of the bill is to amend the law of the bailiff and other laws in this regard. Compared to the first-reading text, the draft has changed considerably. Between the first and second readings, a part of the draft has been withdrawn from the draft proposal by the IRL Group concerning proposals for amending the Notarial Law. The draft has become more attractive and less discordant. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U277	May I have your attention, please? Looking at me, the left wing is very loud. Please, let's respect the waitress and listen to what she's saying! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U278	After the first reading of the draft law, the Committee on Legal Affairs met four more times to discuss the draft law: on 16 January, 7 February, 13 November and 21 November. To remind you, I repeat why this issue has come to the agenda at all. In fact, since the beginning of 2017, the rates of remuneration required for enforcement proceedings have been significantly reduced, as the Supreme Court has pointed out in several of its judgments that they are too burdensome for those who collect the debt. In this respect, it could be predicted that the revenues of bailiffs could be reduced by 30 to 50%. At the Legal Affairs Committee on 13 November, Mati Kadak, President of the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators, pointed out that since the beginning of the year, the remuneration of the trustees had decreased by approximately 30%. For information, there were 46 bailiffs in Estonia as of 1 January of this year, whose network covers Estonia's territory more or less evenly. It is important that the number of claims on bailiffs has decreased by about 50%, which in turn is a very important factor in reducing their income base. Since it is crucial for the state to ensure the service of bailiffs throughout Estonia to the extent necessary, we are faced with the task of finding a solution to the problem. Since the law in force imposes quite strict restrictions on bailiffs, the solution can be to relax these restrictions and create additional services for bailiffs. At the same time, it is understandable that simplification must not allow the situation of unfair competition between, for example, fillers and companies providing collection services to occur. Conflict situations must also be avoided as a result of the conflict of interests in the activities of the executives themselves. The procedure for the draft has attempted to eliminate these possibilities to a maximum extent. Now the most important decisions adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs in preparation for the second reading. The original draft gave the contractor the opportunity to engage in economic activities and to hold the offices in the form of a private limited company. In the Commission's view, this would be an unnecessary and insular regulation of the market for collection services. Enforcers will also be given the opportunity to act as liquidator without doing so in a court-appointed manner, which was a requirement to date. The claimants will be given the opportunity to act as arbitrators and mediators, as the draft will create an arbitration panel to deal with financial claims in agreement with the parties as an out-of-court settlement body for bailiffs and the Chamber of Bankruptcy Administrators. However, a bailiff who has taken part in an arbitration panel cannot carry out his enforcement proceedings in the same case at a later stage. The bailiff's actions shall be terminated if he fails to comply fully with the claim for compensation which he has been ordered by judgment within a reasonable period of time. Compliance with this requirement will then go to the State. This obligation goes to the State if the Chamber of Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Administrators has also proved insolvent. In such a case, the bailiff has harmed the reputation of his office to such an extent that it is no longer possible for the State to continue in that capacity. Within the framework of the same subject, the possibility of taking out insurance for the activities of the fullerholder was also discussed. Let it be said that the trustee has compulsory occupational insurance, but its size may be smaller than the specific requirement. Insurance companies do not agree to provide a bailiff with higher insurance cover in their activities. Therefore, an advance fee of EUR 6 shall be imposed for bailiffs in cases where the amount of the claim is up to EUR 65. Previously, the advance payment started with a €65 claim. The problem has been that, in the case of claims below EUR 65, the bailiff must also carry out certain actions which involve costs. The proportion of claims up to EUR 65 is quite high, estimated at 100000 per year. It is the state's requirements that are mostly involved. A very important point, which has been discussed at length, is the plan to give bailiffs the right to request statements from credit institutions on the debtor's account and other information about the debtor. The bailiffs can also request information on third parties from credit institutions, but in such cases, the court will authorise such information to be collected. The bailiff shall first address the court and, if he is authorised to do so, inform the third party that the court has promised to issue an extract reflecting his financial activities. It also defined the period during which this can be done: it is no more than six months before the opening of enforcement proceedings and is valid for the entire period of enforcement proceedings. The procedure will be simplified when the enforcement proceedings are handed over to another person. If the claimant has been dealing with the claim for a period of four years without quite any results or satisfactory results, the claimant shall have the right to refer the proceedings to another bailiff in the same area of work. In such a case, the executor can only ask for the payment of the starting fee and the costs of meeting the requirements which he has been able to recover. The executor taking over the proceedings can only ask for an advance fee for the bailiff. The e-Arest information channel is currently only used between the enforcement register, the register of taxable persons and the information system of credit institutions. The draft will also create an additional possibility for other government bodies and institutions in their area of government, who will also be able to use the services of e-disclosure if necessary for the performance of their statutory tasks. In particular, it is the case that the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Defence Police Department are given additional opportunities under the Money Laundering Prevention Act. The draft removes a restriction that does not allow claims to be respected by persons receiving a minimum wage. In many cases, it is an act of maliciousness to fail to fulfil its obligations. It has been found that the debtor worker agrees with the employer on terms and conditions of pay that allow them to circumvent or fulfil their obligations to a lesser extent. According to the draft, the debtor's income can be withheld by up to 20%. Income cannot be seized if it falls below the subsistence threshold of less than 130 euros per month. These were the main points of discussion that were considered in greater depth by the Commission. There were some technical changes, but I wouldn't stop them right now. The Commission decided to propose that the second reading be placed on the plenary agenda by today, 6 December, that the second reading be closed and that the second reading be sent to the third reading when the second reading is closed, by 13 December, and then that the final vote be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U279	Thank you, good waitress. Colleagues have at least one question for you. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U280	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Five years ago, the Police and Border Guard Board turned to the Ministry of Justice, where you were then working, saying that it is not wise to demand an advance for claims below EUR 65. Right now, you represent a completely different view. Where'd you get all that lighting and waking up from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U281	Thank you, good questioner! Well, it's usually said that the position depends on the seat. But the point is that the Ministry of Justice, along with the House of bailiffs, looked at this problem and found it really justified. In such cases, too, where the requirement is below that limit, the bailiff must carry out the minimum procedures, such as sending out registered letters by means of notifications. The advance payment is reduced to a minimum, that is EUR 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U282	Peter Ernitsa has another question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U283	Yeah, there's another question. I read a study that says that Estonian bailiffs swim like melt fat compared to their French colleagues. I'm not going to read these numbers right now, but in any case they're much bigger than our bailiffs. Until now, for claims up to EUR 65, an advance payment has been avoided for some reason. At the same time, you said that about 100,000 are claims that are less than EUR 65, and according to the current system, EUR 6 is the lowest advance starting from EUR 65. So, what's the actual amount of money they're gonna collect? Well, in a difficult time, the devil eats flies too. Does this advance amount to EUR 3 for a claim of up to EUR 65 and EUR 1 for a claim of EUR 35 50? Where do these rates come from, and what are they in difficult times?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U284	Thank you. This is not a decision of assessment. The amount of the advance shall be EUR 6.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U285	No further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U286	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U287	It is now possible to negotiate. Anyone? No, it doesn't. Then we go to the amendments. The first amendment, tabled and accepted by the lead committee; the second, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the third, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the fourth, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the fifth, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the sixth, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the seventh, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the eighth, the lead committee and fully accounted for; the ninth, the leading committee and fully accounted for; the ten, the lead committee and fully accounted for; eleven, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica; the sixteenth, the lead committee, taken into full account; the seventeenth, the lead committee, fully taken into account; the eighteenth, the commission, fully taken into account; the nineteenth, the lead committee, fully accounted for; the fourteenth, the lead committee, fully taken into full account; the fifteenth, the lead committee, fully taken into account; the sixteenth, full account; the commission, fully taken into account; the seventeenth, the executive committee, fully taken into account; the eighteenth, the full account; the nineteenth, the executive committee, the nineteenteenth, the executive committee, the executive committee, fully and twenty, the executive committee, fully taken into full and the executive committee, fully taken into account, the twenty, the executive committee, fully taken into account. There is no proposal to suspend the procedure for this draft, so we can say that the second reading of the draft has ended.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U288	Today's 15th item is draft law on civil status proceedings initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 511. For a second reading, I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U289	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and other related acts was on the agenda of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 20 November. Amendments 14 were tabled. All of them came from the Ministry of the Interior and Mari Käbi, Legal Adviser to the Ministry of the Interior, came to the Commission to present these proposals. Let me briefly outline why these changes are needed. As is well known, the performance of the state's duties in the field of civil status operations has shifted from rural governments to local authorities, and the various activities involved and the organisation of reporting need to be put in place by somebody's decree. It is not considered appropriate for the Minister to do so by means of a regulation or a government regulation. The minister can use his order to put it in place for the technical side. That was the content of the three amendments. One amendment reduces the transmission and mandatory retention of paper copies of documents in the Ministry of the Interior or ends it in practice. It is precisely the original or underlying documents of a foreign country. They shall be kept electronically and the underlying documents shall also be available in the foreign country from which they originate. Amendment 6 concerns the period between the submission of an application for marriage and the marriage of a civil status institution. From now on it will be 1 to 7 months, before it was 1 to 6 months. The same amendment extends the term of validity of the certificate of matrimonial capacity to 7 months in order not to force people to obtain twice the proper certificate. It saves money and time. This amendment also gave rise to a longer debate. They asked me to explain what a marriage certificate was. Karin Kask, Member of the Management Board of the Estonian Civil Status Officers Association, explained that the certificate of marriage is a document issued in the country of residence or citizenship of the married person, by which the competent authority of the country of residence or citizenship confirms that the person does not have any impediments to the conclusion of the marriage under the law of the country of residence or citizenship. A marriage certificate must be submitted by a married person from abroad; Estonian residents do not have to submit it. Interested in why the validity of a certificate of marriage could not be longer than seven months. Karin Kask explained to the members of the Commission that the proposed deadline is due to the fact that the law now provides for the possibility of filing a marriage application six months before the marriage, which was three months earlier. They do not support a longer deadline because, during this period, situations can change for people. They also asked what people from a country where a marriage certificate is not issued should do. Ingrid Sarevet, the representative of the professional association, explained that such a person can apply to the Estonian court to obtain permission to enter into marriage without this proof. The Ministry of the Interior also informed that the Estonian Professional Association of Civil Status Officers has proposed to waive the requirement for this permit, but the Ministry does not support it. Enel Pungas, Head of the Department of Population Operations at the Ministry of the Interior, stated that the Ministry of Justice is of the opinion that the court must authorise an alien to enter into a marriage without a certificate of matrimonial capacity because the official does not have the authority to decide on its matrimonial capacity. Karin Kask pointed out that 20 cases were brought to court in Estonia for the reason in question last month. There was also the question of the length of court proceedings in these cases. Ingrid Sarevet explained that this was very different: the decision could come in two weeks, but also in two months. The remaining amendments are relatively technical. However, I will explain Amendment 13 in two sentences. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the right to freedom of religion guaranteed by the Constitution of persons is adequately protected. From now on, the religious association is not required to transmit to the registrar, together with the documents on which the entry is based, with a declaration of modification of the data entered in the register, as they may contain data on the religious belief of persons. It also excludes the possibility of finding out through the e-business register who participated in the general meeting of the religious community and how he voted. These documents are transferred to the registry file and not everyone can look at them in order to obtain information about persons. Although the Hatter, a member of the Commission, did not support the introduction of the amendment in this future law, the subject is not covered by it. This amendment concerns the communication of the business register with the church and does not concern civil status procedures. That's the opinion. All these amendments, with the exception of No 13, the last one I presented, received consensus approval from the Commission. For Amendment 13 everyone was in favour, Küllik's Hatter opposed. The members of the committee who attended the meeting were Karilaid, Kaskpeit, Time, Ivanova, Kübarsepp, Oviir, Tiidus, Vitsut and Volmer. Procedural decisions were also taken: to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 6 December and to close the second reading, to send the draft to third reading when the second one is closed, by 13 December and to hold a final vote. There was absolute consensus in all procedural decisions. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U290	Good waitress! Krista Aru wants to be more specific. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U291	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! How much was the Commission discussing, or was the Commission even interested when our municipalities are ready to take over these activities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U292	Dear Krista Aru! I don't remember anyone asking like that. That's not in the record either. But I think the local authorities are pretty good, they'll do it. After all, they've been involved in all kinds of processes. These technical amendments simply regulate some uncertainties. I'm 100 percent convinced they can do it. And there are people who can be consulted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U293	No further questions. Thank you. Now everyone has the opportunity to say something about this bill. There is no wish for negotiation. We can go to the amendments. The first amendment, tabled by the lead committee and taken fully into account; the second amendment, fully taken into account; the third, the lead committee has taken full account; the fourth, the lead committee has taken full account; the fifth, the lead committee has taken full account; the sixth, the lead committee has taken full account; the seventh, the lead committee has taken full account; the eighth, the lead committee has taken full account; the ninth, the lead committee has taken full account; the tenth, the lead committee has taken full account; the eleventh, the lead committee has taken full account; the twelve, as well as full account and the thirteenth and fourteenth in the same way. We have examined the amendments and we can conclude the second reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U294	We will proceed with item 16, which is the draft law amending the Securities Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and related to the amendment of other laws, by number 507. For the second reading, I would like to ask Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U295	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs at its meeting on 14 November, 20 November and 4 December. It should be said that the aim of the draft is to increase transparency in the markets, promote competition and clarify investor protection rules. No amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu by the deadline for amendments, but the Financial Affairs Committee prepared 13 amendments with the involvement of the Financial Supervision Authority, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Banking Association. They are mostly technical in nature. In the Commission, all these amendments we have tabled received consensus support, and I would not dwell on any of them. The Steering Committee, of course, asks for all 13 amendments to be supported and has also taken such procedural decisions. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft and, when the second reading is closed, the Commission will propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda for the third reading by 13 December. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U296	Thank you, good waitress. Colleagues don't have any questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish to negotiate; we can go to the amendments. As mentioned, 13 proposals have been made to amend this draft and all have been submitted by the lead committee. Therefore, they have also been taken into account. We go over them quickly: one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, and thirteen. All the amendments were supported. Second reading of the bill is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U297	We will proceed to item 17 on the agenda, which is the draft law amending the Social Tax Act, Income Tax Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 499. I would like to ask Mr Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U298	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated this bill on 11 September. In short, the content. The aim of the draft is to make the tax environment more favourable to the self-employed. These thirteen points, which must do so, have been developed in cooperation with self-employed associations and have also been approved by the Chamber of Commerce. So there was no problem with the preparation of the draft or at first reading. The second objective is to increase the income tax base of local governments. The first reading took place on 27 September. By 11 October, when the deadline for amendments was met, no proposals were received from any committee, political group or member of the Riigikogu. Nevertheless, we dealt with this draft at six meetings of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. On 6 and 14 November, we reviewed the amendments submitted to the Commission by the Ministry of Finance. They are in the form of amendments 2, 3 and 6, all purely technical. In a very timely manner, the question arose of what must be done by a person who earns income from two sources, one of which is the Social Insurance Board. Let me remind you that this is the subject of two statements and all that goes with it. We have made this change beautifully, it is set out in Amendment 5. In the meantime, there were two specific proposals. These are set out in Amendments 1 and 4. For example, it turned out that we were able to increase the local government's income tax share by 0.02% compared to the plan that was in the draft. At the meeting on 4 and 5 December, we tried to resolve the issue of reducing the growth of alcohol excise duty on an ongoing basis with this draft. On 4 December, we had a finance minister who answered the questions for 45 minutes. The amendment was then drafted. Another amendment concerned the Forest Act in order to obtain the necessary source of cover. However, in yesterday's session, making excise duty half the increase in alcohol was not supported, nor was the eighth amendment supported yesterday. These two amendments are not presently in the table, so I will not go into any more detail with you on what we talked about with the Minister. All the more so because we still have this debate ahead of us, because today my colleague, Mr Onions, handed over two draft laws that already reflect these issues separately. There are seven amendments in the current table. Proposal No 7 would need to be voted on for a common objective and not supported, as it proposes to change the title of the draft law, but it no longer corresponds to its content. And now procedural decisions. It was decided to send the bill to this room for discussion. It was also proposed to suspend the procedure, but this was not supported. If the votes in the Commission are 6: 6, no proposal is likely to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U299	Thank you, good waitress. There are no questions for you. Now it's time for negotiations. Please, ladies and gentlemen. There are no requests, we can go to the examination of the amendments. All the proposals have been made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as the lead committee, have all taken full account of them. But let's take a look at them one by one. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh... Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U300	I ask for this amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U301	Then the seventh?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U302	Yeah!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U303	Got it! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention, we are currently discussing draft 499. Mr Tõvi asked for the vote on Amendment 7 made by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Governing Commission has taken full account of this. Please take a stand and vote. 1 member of the Riigikogu supported the proposal of the commission, 47 against, 6 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. We have all examined the proposals to amend draft 499. The Governing Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of the draft. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U304	Today's 18th item is draft law 535 on ratification of the Final Acts of the 26th Congress of the Universal Postal Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. The first reading is presented by Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U305	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu and good members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic submitted to the proceedings of the Riigikogu draft Act 535 on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 26th Congress of the World Postal Union. The World Postal Union, or UPU, is a UN special organization with 192 members. UPU was founded in 1874, and the Republic of Estonia has been a member of this organisation since 7 July 1922, and its membership was restored on 30 April 1992. UPU coordinates worldwide cooperation between postal service providers, establishes rules for the provision of international postal services and makes recommendations for the development and quality improvement of international postal services. The 26th UPU Congress was held in autumn 2016. The purpose of the Act is to ratify the Statute and the Additional Protocol to the General Rules signed by the Congress and the Postal Convention. The need for ratification arises from national requirements. The Additional Protocols to the Statutes and General Rules of the UPU and the Postal Convention shall enter into force on 1 January 2018 for the Member States of the UPU. Such congresses are held regularly every four years. Congress is the highest body in the decision-making process of UPU and it defines the main policies of UPU, adopts the UPU strategy and financial plan for four years and selects the senior UPU officials. The UPU 26 Congress amended the UPU Statute, the General Rules and the Postal Convention. The amendments to the statutes and general rules consist in clarifying and updating postal concepts. The Statute is an act which contains the basic rules of the Postal Union, but it does not impose any additional obligations on the Member States. The General Rules are a document that organises the work of UPU and, like the Statute, does not impose any additional obligations on Member States. However, the Postal Convention contains rules applicable to all international postal services and is binding on all Member States. Member States shall ensure that undertakings designated by them comply with their obligations under the Convention. The Convention now regulates more clearly the use of UPU documents and the right to transfer personal data electronically between designated economic operators for the unhindered operation of the international postal service. Changes were also made with a view to facilitating e-commerce and making the processing of consignments faster and more efficient. The changes will have an impact on the Estonian universal postal service provider, or AS Eesti Post, who will have to comply with new requirements in their activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U306	Good Minister, Martin Helme wants to clarify something. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U307	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. If this does not come up with any commitments and nothing changes, why do we have to ratify it? First of all, it is a question. Secondly, the question: do these new rules entail additional costs for Estonian Post? Can we see the need to change the prices of postal services in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U308	Thank you. The state of Estonia has granted the obligation to provide universal postal service and the right to the state company Eesti Post. We are a member of this international organization, a membership fee paid from the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. At the Congress where these amendments were adopted, a senior official of the Ministry of Economic Affairs took part in the communication area. But these changes must also be approved here in the Riigikogu. I didn't say there were no changes. I said that changes will have an impact on the universal postal service provider in Estonia, i.e. AS Eesti Post, who will have to follow new rules in their activities. So we have to approve these rules adopted by Congress and then Eesti Post will be able to comply with them. You asked whether, as a result, postal services would become more expensive. As a result, it is not currently apparent that postal services should become more expensive. I can make it clear that the major amendments made to the Convention are as follows: First, to define more clearly the UPT, or universal postal service provider, and its subsidiaries' right to use UPU forms and documents. It is not related to the extra cost; it simply specifies the matter. Secondly, to create more flexible opportunities for the unhindered operation of international postal services to mark stamps. These are administrative or, let's say, regulatory measures. More clearly, rights to transfer personal data electronically between UPT providers were established (Article 10). Further, encouraging the development of e-commerce. Specific provisions were adopted in view of the increase in the number of consignments in e-commerce. We know that universal postal service, or mail delivery, is decreasing, but parcel delivery, e-commerce is a growing business. The number of letters is decreasing, it is a global trend, but the number of consignments is increasing and Estonian Post is preparing for this with its entire network. We know that Eesti Post has parcel terminals and construction of an intermediate warehouse is under way to provide services for the delivery of goods from other countries, such as China. It's a profitable business. Between 2018 and 2021, the Postal Board aims to improve the efficient and secure delivery of consignments, resulting in a further increase in the volume of e-commerce. According to the amendment, the postal company will be able to process and move letters and consignments more easily and more efficiently and ultimately deliver them more quickly. And last amendment: improvement of the system of payments of the final balance, which is dealt with in Articles 28 to 32. The aim is to compensate for the costs incurred in service of an international postal consignment in the country of destination. This system was created in 1969 at the Tokyo Congress. In order to compensate for the imbalance in postal communications, very thorough work has been done to improve the system. The focus is no longer on reducing imbalances, but on covering the costs of postal flows. The 24th Congress adopted the foundations of the target system, with which all countries should join by the end of this year. This should lead to the adoption of a national cost-based payment system at the end of the transitional period. In general, it is already the case that, when we talk about postal items, it is a cost-based activity. So if there are more packages, they can be delivered more favourably.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U309	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U310	Good manager! Good waitress! UPU has 192 members and we pay 36800 euros in membership fee. I ask for purely interest, what happens if I send a letter to 193rd country, for example, if there are other countries that do not belong to the UPU. Is it gonna make it? Does this membership fee guarantee the arrival of letters and packages for countries that do not belong to UPU?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U311	Honestly, I don't know how to answer that question. If you wish, I can clarify this and send you a written reply. But generally, developed countries have joined the UPU. Estonia joined the organisation a hundred years ago, already during the so-called first Republic of Estonia. Estonian Post just celebrated its 100th birthday. It is a very old organisation, and the developed countries are part of it precisely because the rules on postal items are coordinated. People must be able to be sure that any package sent to a Member State will arrive and that someone will be responsible for it. It's not a stylish business, it's a regulated activity. But who are the countries that are not included in this 192 ♪ 192 is still quite a lot ♪, I can specify if you want to, and send a written reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U312	Martin Helme, another question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U313	Thank you. I can tell you that no one will be responsible if we do blindmail during the elections and about a third of our campaign materials do not arrive. But that's the kind of thing I want to ask. Given that Amazon's trade and all e-commerce, which you have talked about, has become massive and ordinary correspondence is fading, how relevant is this whole convention activity at all? We know that most of the goods today pass through the Estonian Post, but through other companies operating on a commercial basis. How meaningful is all this activity at all, what are we going to regulate in this convention?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U314	I think that makes a lot of sense. But as for the election ad, I'll share that sadness with you. It is true that pre-election ads may not arrive. They will later be found in places where they were not meant to be sent, including highway ditches. But this distribution is not a universal postal service; it is a commercial activity for both Estonian Post and other domestic carriers. It is not regulated by the UPU's universal postal service rules, so unfortunately, there is no help in distributing the election advertising. However, we can get help when it comes to universal postal services, such as simple letters and panderrolls. And if you're saying that most of the packages are being sent by someone else right now, not by Omniva, that's not exactly the case. Omniva has a very large market share, I think it dominates the market in this area. I don't dare say the percentages, but in any case, this piece of work is a very large and growing area for him, as I said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U315	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U316	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This bill has been accompanied by a funny legend. This is about ratification, which will change nothing in practical life. Did you push it over a little bit? But I'm going to ask you this for clarity. Would there be anything that the Estonian Post could not or should not do if we did not ratify these final acts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U317	Estonia is a full member of this organisation, UPU, and has been involved in adopting this whole set of rules. It's a little similar, I'd like to bring you a parallel like this to the European Union. If we belong to the European Union, then we will follow the rules that we have agreed there. And it is often necessary to accept their additions here in the Riigikogu. We've been a member of the UPU for a hundred years, and so we follow its rules. Or we may decide that we are no longer a member of the UPU and do not comply with these rules. However, given that it belongs to 192 countries and that it is an organisation that regulates the universal postal service as a whole, it is nevertheless in our consumers' interests to be part of it. The aim of these regulations is to protect consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U318	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U319	Thank you. Good minister! Let me ask you briefly: will the membership fee change for us or will it remain the same? Maybe you can tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U320	The size of the membership fee will not change and Estonian membership fee will be the smallest possible. None of the smaller countries have.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U321	Good minister! No more questions for you. Thank you for your very thorough answers. Deniss Borodich will make a presentation on behalf of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U322	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 20 November. The bill was presented to us by Tõnu Nirk, Head of MKM Communication Department, who made a very thorough review. There was no major discussion on this draft. The chairman of the committee had the same question as my colleague, Mr Kravtšenko: will this ratification change the amount of the Estonian membership fee. We were also assured in the Commission that the amount of the membership fee would not change. Finally, the Commission took a number of consensual decisions: to propose a draft on the agenda of the plenary session on 6 December, to propose that the first reading be closed and, if it were to be closed, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 13 December 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U323	Good waitress, no questions for you. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 535 be terminated. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 535 amendments on 13 December at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U324	The next item is the draft Act 537 initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion. On behalf of the initiators, the Secretary of Finance, Toomas Tõniste, will make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U325	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of double taxation agreements is to encourage transnational investment, prevent discriminatory taxation and prevent tax evasion. All Estonian tax treaties are based on the OECD Standard Agreement. The Agreement between Estonia and the Kyrgyz Republic was signed on 10 April 2017. The important points of the agreement between Estonia and Kyrgyzstan are as follows: Where a company receiving the dividend holds at least 20% of the voting rights of the company paying the dividend, the State of the source of income may not retain more than 5% of the gross dividend and 10% in the remaining cases. In the case of interest income, the withholding tax rate on interest paid to a resident of another country may not exceed 10% of the gross amount. The State of the source of income shall not be entitled to tax interest received by another State, its local authority or its central bank. The agreement also provides for the right to split taxation when it comes to the taxation of royalties. In the source country, the royalty withholding tax is capped at 5% of the total royalty. The agreement between Estonia and Kyrgyzstan contains a provision on a permanent establishment for the provision of services. A permanent establishment shall be established where services have been provided in another country for at least 183 days for a period of 12 months. The agreement also provides for investment funds established in a Contracting Party as a resident and thus also provides for contractual benefits for investment funds. The agreement between Estonia and Kyrgyzstan provides for the exchange of comprehensive information on the income of persons. This obligation to exchange information is not limited either to residents of the Contracting Parties or to the taxes specified in the Agreement. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U326	Good Minister, members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U327	Honourable President! Honourable Minister, forgive my curiosity! At the meeting of the Monetary Commission, I didn't notice to ask. Perhaps your good advisors have provided you with information on the amount of income tax, profit tax and personal income tax on legal persons in the Kyrgyz Republic now? Is it much bigger than ours?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U328	The overall tax rate of the company is 20%. The withholding tax rates on the income of a non-resident legal person are 10% on the dividend, 10% on the interest, 10% on the royalty. The resident individual income tax rate is 10% and the withholding tax rate on income of a non-resident natural person is 10 on dividends, 10 on interest and 10 on royalties.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U329	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U330	Thank you, good manager. Good performer! There are already 57 similar agreements in Estonia. I read that there are 13 Kyrgyz companies that are related to Estonia, but Estonia's, which are related to Kyrgyz companies, as it is not. I'd like to know where all of a sudden this deal with Kyrgyzia came from. The crow doesn't just fly. Anything planned or where did this Kyrgyzia suddenly come from? It's been a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U331	Thank you. Since it was the only country in the region with which there was no such agreement, I think it was simply a matter of getting it over with. But in this sense, you are right that Kyrgyz companies have invested some 75000 euros in equity capital in Estonia and 13 companies have done so. None of Estonia's investments are currently known there. But on the next point, I'm talking about Japan, and there's already somebody interested in this agreement. We hope that it will improve the business environment and encourage investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U332	Good Minister, there are no more questions for you. Thank you. The presentation shall be made on behalf of the Committee on Finance by Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U333	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance dealt with this draft at its meeting on 13 November. Tiina Hansson, chief specialist at the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, introduced this project to us. One question that was put to him was exactly the same as Mr Ernits asked the Minister. Mrs Hansson replied exactly as the Minister replied. It was clarified that it is, yes, in order of 58th type of contract. Procedural decisions were such: to propose a deadline of 13 December at 5.15 p.m. for amendments and to close the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U334	Good chairman of the committee! You don't seem to have any questions. It is now possible to negotiate. That's not what you want. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 537 be completed. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the 537 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 13 December.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U335	Our last item on the agenda today is item 20. This is the first reading of the draft law 549 on the prevention of double taxation of income taxes between the Republic of Estonia and Japan initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the ratification of the treaty on tax avoidance and prevention of tax fraud and related protocol. The Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste will make a presentation on behalf of the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U336	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The agreement between Estonia and Japan was signed on 30 August 2017 in a new building in Tallinn, where the Ministry of Finance is now located. I had the honour of doing it myself. I am all the better pleased that this Treaty is now here in the Riigikogu. The essential points of the agreement between Estonia and Japan are basically the same as those discussed in the previous paragraph. The source country has a limited right to tax dividend income: the withholding tax ceiling is 10% of the gross dividend. In the case of interest income, the withholding tax rate on interest paid to a resident of another country may not exceed 10% of the gross interest rate. In the case of licence fees, the contract also provides for a split right of taxation, with the royalty withholding tax in the source country being capped at 5% of the total amount of the licence fee. The agreement also treats the pension fund of a Contracting Party as a resident and thus also applies benefits to pension funds arising from the agreement. The pension and other such remuneration shall be taxed in the country of residence of the pensioner. The agreement between Estonia and Japan provides for a comprehensive exchange of information on the income of persons. The obligation to exchange information is not limited either to residents of the Contracting Parties or to the taxes specified in the Agreement. In addition to the exchange of information, this agreement also regulates the cooperation of tax authorities in the recovery of taxes. The agreement does not provide additional tax opportunities for countries, but limits the existing tax rights established by national law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U337	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U338	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! You guys were talking about the contract, but why don't you say a few words about the protocol?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U339	What can I say about that? Okay, in principle this Protocol creates more favourable conditions for investment, free movement of goods and services. The aim is to eliminate double taxation, which may result from the combined effect of the laws of two countries, in order to prevent discriminatory taxation and prevent tax evasion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U340	The questions of the members of the Riigikogu are now exhausted. Thank you. On behalf of the Committee on Finance, please, Chairman Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U341	Mr President! This agreement, in order of the 59th, was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 21 November. The draft was presented by Lemmi Oro, Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance. More interest was shown in this agreement than in the Kyrgyz Treaty. For example, they asked why we were seeing this agreement so late. Lemmi Oro said that we have actually had an interest in this since Estonia regained independence. To be honest, the Japanese country's interest was lukewarm. But this March, this agreement was initialled in Tokyo, and then it was also signed in Tallinn. If we process it as usual, it can be used as early as 2019. Interested whether there was anything specific about this agreement compared to others. The answer was that the Japanese party very much wanted to ensure that this agreement would specifically benefit those engaged in economic activities and not any third parties. I asked about pensions, but the answer was normal: according to the individual's retirement age, the pension can be received either from one country or from another, and from both. It's regulated. Procedural decisions were such: to propose that the draft be submitted to the Chamber today, to be appointed as rapporteur, by the chairman of the committee and by the deadline of 13 December at 5.15 p.m. for the amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-06_U342	There's no questions. Thank you. Colleagues, you have the opportunity to speak on this issue. There is no wish for negotiation. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 549 be terminated. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting the 549 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 13 December. Ladies and gentlemen, we have successfully passed today's agenda. Have a good night. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 7.15 p.m.
