ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the session of the 18th working week of the V plenary session on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, now you have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. First, I'd like a colleague of the chair, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the control of the state budget on behalf of the Commission to our work report. Shocked hard, from July 2016 to June 2017, and here it's all written.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U3	Is there any further wish to pass on the drafts or inquiries? Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U4	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, After waiting for my order, I will present an inquiry to the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. This topic concerns Paide State Gymnasium. On 20 March, I asked the Minister a question on the subject of why the more expensive thing is being done with a worse result. He lied that he didn't know anything about it becoming more expensive, and he didn't say anything about the results. The consequence of this decision is essentially the appropriation of public money for purposes other than those for which it is intended. Järvamaa receives a state gymnasium that is more than twice in comparable numbers, not to say three times more expensive, but at the same time less expensive and without opportunities for sports. There is also no way to combine the quality of vocational education and upper secondary school education by providing better applications for upper secondary school education and better generics for an applied school. So this is a cynical decision at every turn, the only goal of which is to get a house in Paide for money, but it's all at the expense of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U5	Thank you. Any more calls? No, it's not. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one report and one inquiry. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U6	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the second reading of the draft law amending the radiation law initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Kalle Palling, vice-chair of the Committee on the Environment, to speak as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U7	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Radiation Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 15 May including. The first reading was closed on 31 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 2 June. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. During the period between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft was dealt with once at the Commission meeting on 6 June. A representative of the Ministry of the Environment also took part in the meeting. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications which in no case alter the content of the draft. At its meeting on 6 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 June and to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, that the draft be referred to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U8	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks to the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the commission of directors is to conclude the second reading of draft 463, the second reading of the draft has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U9	The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Ms Terje Trei, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to be the rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U10	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Atmospheric Air Protection Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 15 May inclusive. The amendment is based on two EU directives. The aim of the amendment is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector in order to improve overall ambient air quality. The first reading was closed on 31 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 2 June 2017. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft. During the period between the first reading and the second reading of the draft proposal, the draft was dealt with once at the Commission meeting on 6 June. A representative of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the meeting. The Committee on the Environment tabled one amendment to the draft. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications which in no case alter the content of the draft. The decision was consensual. In addition, the Committee on the Environment decided to submit a draft for a second reading and proposes that the second reading be terminated. If the second reading is completed, the draft must be sent to the third reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U11	There are no questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? Yes, they do. Speaking on the spot, March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I just wanted to ask you this question: what movements or views have been taken about the United States wanting to get out of this global warming and all the other things, but the waste materials, the gases, they difuse uniformly around the world. What's the use of our efforts if someone else is completely contaminated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time to ask questions is until the President announces the negotiations. Then, after that, it is possible to give a speech either from the remote control or from the speaking point of view. Unfortunately, in this case, the President cannot answer the question. Let me ask you another question: would anyone like to make a speech, participate in the negotiations? That's all I'm suggesting, in which case, I'm closing the negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft, which is from the lead committee, and the position of the Committee on the Environment is to take full account of it. Is that what we want to vote on? No, I don't. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 462. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U14	Today's third item is the second reading of draft Act 415 on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of the Environmental Management System Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Mr Valeri Korb, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to sit as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U15	Ladies and gentlemen, On Monday, 5 June, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act. Representatives of the Ministry and Chief Specialist Rainer Persidski, Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment were invited. The chairman of the committee noted that the first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act was completed on 10 May, including. The deadline for the amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 16 May 2017, but they were not received by that time. Ms Elle Kaur, Chairman of the Council-Secretariat, presented the Commission's linguistic and norm technical proposals on the basis of which the Commission could table amendments to the draft. All nine amendments have been fully taken into account by consensus. The Commission's consensual decisions were as follows: to propose that the second reading of draft 415 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is terminated, to refer the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U16	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? There are no requests, so I will not open negotiations. There are nine amendments to the proposal 415 for a second reading, all of which are from the Committee on the Environment and, for all of them, the position of the lead committee is one: take full account. We will examine these amendments. First, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 415. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U17	The fourth item is the Act amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, i.e. implementing the Nagoya Protocol. The number of this bill is 444 and it is a second reading. I would like to ask Valeri Korb, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to be the rapporteur for the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U18	Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act (Implementing the Nagoya Protocol) was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 May 2017. The first reading was completed in this Chamber on 17 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 25 May 2017. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. During the period between first and second readings, the draft was dealt with once at the Commission meeting on 5 June. A representative of the Ministry of the Environment also took part in the meeting. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications which in no case alter its content. The Commission decided to propose the second reading of draft 444 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 14 June (consensus decision), the second reading of draft 444 (also consensus) and, if the second reading is closed, to propose the third reading of the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 15 June 2017 (consensus) and to put the draft to the final vote of 444 (also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U19	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. No amendments were tabled and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 444. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U20	The fifth item is the second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Environmental Monitoring initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Metsoja, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to be the rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act was indeed initiated by the Government of the Republic on 2 May 2017. The amendment of the draft is in fact driven by the context of changing the national organisation of environmental monitoring. This initiative has also come partly from the National Audit Office, which has drawn attention to such a need. The first reading was completed in this Chamber on 17 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 25 May. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees on the draft. During the period between first and second readings, the draft has been dealt with once at the Commission meeting on 5 June. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications, which in no case alter the substance of the draft. The procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee are as follows: At its meeting on 5 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading and to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to a third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U22	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? No, I don't. Since no amendments were tabled to the draft and the proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 443, the second reading is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U23	The sixth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask again Mr Metsoja, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to hold a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U24	Hello again! Draft 452, second reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act. This draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 4 May 2017. The first reading took place on 17 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 25 May. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party tabled one amendment to the draft, but later withdrew it. The Committee on the Environment has tabled four amendments to the draft. During the period between first and second reading, the draft has been dealt with twice at Commission meetings: 6 June and 12 June. Representatives of the Ministry of the Environment took part in the meeting. The Commission decided to table the following amendments: Now, more specifically, the amendments. The first concerns, in a sense, all of us who like to engage in recreational fishing in the summer, spring and autumn, or even in winter. This proposal has been discussed at length with both professional and recreational fishermen in the context of temporary restrictions on recreational fishing. The problem has been up for quite a long time because those who catch ice in the winter have done it or are doing it in a way for the purpose of disposing of the fish. But, as you know, in the case of recreational fishing, fish can only be fished for their own use, not for sale. Consequently, and also because of the constant visits of our neighbours, or Latvians, to fishing, we have been jointly found to be able to harmonise certain restrictions and to provide for a catch limit. This draft provides for the possibility of a regulation to limit catches in recreational fisheries to 15 kilograms, which may be held by a single catcher. The second amendment concerns sanctioning, i.e. what happens if the quantity is higher, i.e. the quantity exceeds the permitted amount. For this, a natural person can be punished with a fine of up to 300 fine units. The third amendment clarifies § 2 as a new point replacing the text in subsection 11 (5) of the Environmental Charges Act with the text in section '30.50%'. This section details the waters of the eel and the introduction of these eels. The water bodies of the eel are Võrtsjärv, Saadjärv, Kaiavere, Kuremaa and Vagula, where fishers are also wanted to contribute to the restocking. In particular, this point is regulated. The fourth amendment complements the entry into force of the law and the rules under discussion. The text of § 3 of the draft is inserted after the figure of 8 number 13; this is also a bit of a technical change to the norm. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. At its meeting on 6 June, the Committee on the Environment decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 14 June and to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, to refer the draft to a third reading. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U25	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, As they say, better late than never, that is why I am asking about the exchange of fishing opportunities with other countries. There will be a gap and all these amendments. Will they improve, improve the opportunities of Estonian fishermen, or will there be an alternative? In particular, some border countries are quite free to adopt their attitude or regulations towards fishermen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U27	Thank you. Yes, there have indeed been repeated meetings on the subject of salmon at the former Minister for the Environment, Marko Pomerants, which is particularly relevant to our neighbouring country, Finland. The new agreement should broaden our options. It has been agreed that salmon stocks are one context and that understanding of salmon fishing is consistent with neighbouring countries. So the tension has been removed in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U28	Any more questions? Doesn't look like it. Thank you very much for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? There is no wish to negotiate. We have received four amendments, all of which are from the Committee on the Environment, and for all of them the position of the commission is to take full account. Let's go through them. Amendments 1, 2, 3 and 4. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 452. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U29	The seventh item is the second reading of the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection initiated by the Government of the Republic and the general part of the environmental code. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Mr Metsoja, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to sit as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U30	As they say, it's a court order three times. 464, the draft law amending the law on atmospheric air protection and the general part of the environmental code has been to the Commission for a second reading. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 15 June 2017. The first reading was closed on 31 May and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 12 noon on 2 June. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose any amendments to the draft, while the Committee on the Environment tabled three amendments. During the period between the first and second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been discussed once at the Commission meeting on 6 June, and representatives of the Ministry of the Environment also participated. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications which in no case alter the content of the draft. Amendment 1 deletes from § 1 of the draft clause No 8 which amends the title of § 127 of the Air Protection of the atmosphere Act and adds the words 'and, if necessary, the provision of additional data' to the text in force. The Commission considered that such an addition was not necessary since the current wording of the title of the section corresponds to the content of the paragraph. Amendments 2 and 3. Amendment 2 amends the text of point 23 of section 1 of the draft, the new numbering of point 22 and worded as follows: '22) in paragraph 249 (1), the text part '245.2471' is replaced by '245.2471'. Amendment 3 of the Commission complements Paragraph 1 (24) of the draft, which is similarly a new numbering point 23. Both changes are of a technical nature. Procedural decisions and proposals of the lead committee. The Committee on the Environment decided at its meeting of 6 June, including the second reading, to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 14 June and to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to refer the draft to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U31	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. We will go to the examination of the amendments. As the rapporteur said, three amendments have been tabled. These are all the proposals of the Committee on the Environment itself and, for all, the position of the lead committee is the same: take full account. Let's go through them. First, second and third. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 464. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U32	The eighth item is the first reading of the draft law amending § 178 of the Penal Code, initiated by Oudekki Lone, Igor Gräzini, Barbi Pilvre, Eerik-Niiles Krossi, Artur Talvik, Valdo Randpere, Remo Holsmeri, Helmut Hallemaa, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Toomas Vitsuti, Heidy Purga, Marianne Mikko and Hardi Volmer. In the name of the initiators, I would like to ask Oudekki Loone, Member of the Riigikogu, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this short amendment is to clarify the legal order of Estonia. If we look at paragraph 178, of the Penal Code, the point is to protect the normal sexual development of a child. When a child, a child actually present, is depicted on pornographic material, it damages his sexual self-determination, his normal development into a free and healthy person. Moreover, such a crime lasts for an indefinite period of time, as long as it circulates. Damaged legal rights are the protection of the rights of children who actually exist. For ten years now, lawyers in Estonia have indicated that the current wording in the law is too broad and therefore weakly linked to the legal benefits directly affected. Moreover, this is also problematic from the point of view of the Constitution, as it is contrary to the principles of freedom of art and science. § 178 of the Penal Code interferes with artistic freedom because certain widely used works of art, whether written, video or in any other form, may, according to objective characteristics, meet the characteristics of the Law on the regulation of the distribution of works promoting pornographic content and violence or cruelty. It defines pornography as a way of portraying other human relationships aside or in the background, leaving sexual activities vulgarly and prominently at the forefront. In this regard, there is an interesting difference between the general definitions of the world where pornography is associated with the objective. According to the European Parliament and Council Directive on combating child pornography, child pornography is also an example of the depiction of a child's genital organs for sexual purposes or the visual representation of a person who appears to be a child, particularly for sexual purposes. Estonian law has no such purpose. When we look at the Estonian Constitution, Article 38 of the Constitution states that science, art and their teachings are free. Freedom of art is a fundamental right without reservation by the law, which means that it can only be limited to the protection of the fundamental rights of other persons or of other constitutional values. Public morality and morality are not constitutional values. People's rights are constitutional values. Protecting the fundamental rights of others is what the Constitution deals with. Therefore, if we have such a text that no real people have been used to create, i.e. the fundamental rights of any other person, its criminalisation is not justified or even constitutional. There are things that can be solved by penal law, and there are things that can't be solved. Punishment cannot take on tasks that he cannot handle. Punishment cannot teach people to behave properly; it cannot guarantee the morality of society as a whole and it cannot keep society in fear. Penalty only intervenes to the extent that is indeed necessary to protect the most important legal benefits. Punishment is not the easiest culprit we use to solve any social problem. There are problems that penal law cannot and must not solve, and one of them is the question of proper morality. The law cannot establish the right morale. Morale is something personal. The moral question is how am I supposed to behave in any given situation. The law, which is a political agreement, solves situations where we have to live together and we have different ideas about how to live together, but we have to reach some kind of agreement somewhere. We cannot impose morals in this way by means of agreements. When the law says something immoral, people choose, they rely on their own inner moral law, not on what the law prescribes. When the law starts to prescribe morality, our country will become authoritarian, and we certainly cannot allow that. Now that we are looking at today's text, we have found that when we define as child pornography a purely text-based literary work, it actually means that the works of the Markii de Sade or Nabokov's Lolita will also become such crimes punishable by imprisonment. That's a little ridiculous. And also, it's another thought check that the state can't do. A democratic justice system punishes acts, a democratic justice system does not punish thoughts. Of course, if we have a written text and there is a suspicion that it describes some real situation in which children have been exploited, then, of course, this written text can be But the text itself is not a crime, i.e. the creation of a text is not a crime. The current wording of the law allows, in addition to, say, literature, situations such that when two 14-year-old children exchange SMS with sexual content, it is punishable by imprisonment. This, however, again deviates from the idea that this law is actually written to protect children from using paedophiles. It is clear that, as it is now formulated, it is a burden of the legal system in cases that have no connection with real children. Sometimes it is claimed that such works and their distribution, the distribution of porn texts, can make latent pedophiles active, and this can encourage them. It can be said that if we allow pornographic materials, it somehow normalizes this kind of attitude, for example, they can be used to convince children. That is why we have found that the fear of using visual material may indeed have a basis or, more importantly, it is very difficult to draw a line where, for example, purely electronic means have actually been used to create images and where the ordinary freedom of art goes. But written texts have a different nature. First of all, the written text is the writer's fantasy. It's basically a writer's fantasy. Second, when reading the written text, a person must make an effort; he must exert himself spiritually. I can't quite imagine any paedophile who makes children read the Kaur Kender novel Untitled 12, for example, and by doing so normalizes it, i.e. says yes, they're perfectly okay with each other. Absolutely not. In general, the world has also shown how images that use normalisation or persuasion are generally of the kind that show children happy and happy in sexual situations. There is, in fact, a convincing goal, a promotional objective. It is also one piece which is missing in Estonian law, namely the purpose of the act. We should definitely do that later, too. This is also problematic in many other points of the Penal Code. The behaviour of latent pedophiles has actually been studied, but it has not been conclusively proven. Even within the limits of rational doubt, it has not been demonstrated that it activates pedophiles that would otherwise not activate. It is true that paedophiles use pornographic materials, but it has not been shown that everyone who uses pornographic materials even if they are paedophiles will do real things after that. Some start, not all start. There's no one connection, at least so far it hasn't been proven. That is why we cannot rely on the law at the moment. Our proposal is firstly to punish only a person under the age of 18 for producing, possessing, holding, transferring, displaying or making available a pornographic or erotic picture or other visual work or reproduction of a pornographic or under 14-year-old person. I stress that this changes the fact that the creation of a text is not punishable by imprisonment. Text-making. It may also go too easy to ban arbitrary texts, but it is not good either if Estonian penal law has a kind of malaka that can be used arbitrarily. Secondly, we propose to exclude from this section works which have important artistic, scientific, historical or political value. This is an exception which, once again, the laws of most countries in the world do, because if we have, for example, a medical textbook, then no one will be maliciously able to complain to anyone about it or to take advantage of the legal system. It may seem strange, but in general, if the legal system is too wide, then at some point there is a person who abuses it. It's up to us to make sure this doesn't happen. The same is true of historical values. The Commission was asked what the difference between historical and political. Let's say politics is what will become history in the future. Artistic value. Again, it includes, for example, the Pasolin film Salò, which very clearly shows and condemns the sexual exploitation of children by those in power in Fascist Italy. After watching this movie, you're gonna be disgusting. You're gonna realize how scary it was. This is why it has always been regarded as an art and has never been regarded as an advocacy. It's a very nasty movie, and a lot of people can't watch it, and a lot of people have said it's playing on a moral level. But in Estonia it has also been shown, for example, in the Sõpruse cinema, without any questions. This means that our society actually accepts that it does not go under any section. That is why our paragraph should also reflect societal expectations more clearly. We certainly don't decriminalize the exploitation of children. On the contrary, we are clarifying the situation so that our legal system can focus on protecting against the exploitation of real children, so that our penal code punishes acts, not thoughts that we are not based on the abstract idea that everyone must be guided by one moral claim, but we are a republic in which no one is punished for being something, but is punished for what they are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U34	There are also questions for the rapporteur. First please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U35	This is an extremely fundamental law, even though it concerns a very specific area of pornography. The content of the proposal is, as I understand it, to maintain the penalty for visual pornography. I believe that pornography, as such, is an artificial fiction from 1870. This is undoubtedly linked primarily to the atheist worldview and promotes atheism by claiming that the state must replace the church and everyone must submit to the morals established by the state. That is why I would actually ask one more step forward, saying that, in my opinion, any form of nationalisation of morality is, by its very nature, immoral. Is that it? Could this be the first step towards a state becoming a state and morals becoming morals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U36	Thank you. Absolutely. Certainly this idea, which has been supported, among other things, by the Estonian Writers' Union, is based on the principle that the state does not impose morals. Similarly, pornography can be unpleasant for many, but it can be pleasant for many. Pornography in general cannot be prohibited or unacceptable. The only thing we really need to do is to make sure that the sexual development of children makes sense so that adults do not abuse children who have not yet reached the point where they accurately account for the consequences of all their actions. We have to protect children, but real children. The law doesn't have to protect imaginary children. If we are going to protect imaginary children, it means exactly what Mr Colleagues said that we are going to establish some kind of proper morality. The state becomes a moral beacon and there is no need to even take any steps towards authoritarianism from there, because then it is already authoritarian.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U37	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U38	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You really have the roots of a great philosopher, but you mentioned at least twice that you should punish actions, not thoughts. Is there a problem in the Estonian legal space? Please tell me, where are the thoughts currently being punished in the Estonian legal space?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U39	Thank you. If we criminalize the text, i.e. if we allow a person to be imprisoned for writing a text, it is pointless criminalisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U40	Barbi Cloud.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U41	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! In my opinion, this is also a fundamental draft for the protection of freedom of creation, as creation often feels the limits of society's tolerance. As the draft is probably intended to be rejected at this stage, I ask this question: do you see the possibility that, in the future, texts that describe other types of violence, such as violence against homosexuality, animal torture, domestic violence or even road violence could be banned in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U42	Thank you. Since I clearly believe in such a very delicate issue that the state cannot and cannot criminalise thoughts, this is also true of any other form of violence. The thing that can be regulated is a direct call for violence, certainly. And that's the line we should keep. It is probably reasonable to ask how to regulate the availability of texts that very clearly describe violence, especially their availability to children. We actually have it in the legal order right now. I think that we could discuss, in such borderline cases, whether if a person is creating some kind of text, but creates it for himself and does not share it, there is any reason to punish it at all. We can ask this again only to protect some real people in order to protect the development of children. If someone thinks that violence is disgusting and should not be protected, then we can ask how to limit the availability of texts or how to analyse texts in the education system, for example. Our debate could be there. But banning texts is very dangerous. I really hope that no member of the Estonian Parliament will go this way, that no texts, no thoughts, no ideas in themselves are prohibited.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U43	March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm going to continue with Barb's mindset and what you said about protecting the children. I mean, those people who are paedophiles and raise children for the purpose you were talking about, they just have to be defined very precisely in the Penal Code, and they have to be isolated from this world, sent to hell or somewhere else. But I wanted to ask you how to view descriptions and all the other things where children are made happy, for example in so-called gender-free kindergartens. The Kalevipoeg must also be rewritten. How are writers of texts punished who rape a person's spirit by describing things that may not make a person happy at all? What will happen to this child who has been raised by such an understanding? Maybe when he's 15, 16 or 17, he'll realize he's very unhappy because he's been raised like this. Then who's responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U45	Thank you. There is a very beautiful song that says don't teach children your morals, it's old and tired, it's sick and it can do bad things. Love them, show them the magic of life, and they will be happy people. I think that's a good answer, Mr. School Papa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U46	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U47	Thank you! Good waitress! I understand you when you treat a child as abstract, but I ask you this: if you hear the word'mother' from such a work of incitement to violence, do you first view this mother as an abstract image or do you still somehow associate her with your mother?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U48	Thank you. I have a relatively advanced sense of art, so I realize that if someone says the word'mom', he doesn't necessarily think of my mother.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U49	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U50	For drawing his pictures, Egon Schie was closed for 48 hours because his pornographic pictures were in the studio, where children also visited. After that, he was fired with excuses. I mean, idiocy has no bounds. Writer Mikhail Veller has said that today you're refusing to talk about sexual relations, tomorrow you're denying a dog nail in your ass. What does that mean? Can we just say that all evils here are, say, crocodile tears, etc., for which children need to be protected and actual crap does not come from the Internet as such? Mikhail Žvanetski has said that he remembers how Mílos Venus gave him erotic interest. Are we going to ban Mílos Venus now? I'm saying that the base of evil is sitting on an uncontrolled computer that could be anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U51	Thank you. I am not sure that the debate on what is evil should at all be the subject of this Chamber. Because what is evil and what is sin becomes the subject of the church. This may also be the subject of philosophy lectures, for example. But it's not the legislator's issue. What role does the Internet play in the spread of such things is certainly an interesting issue that should be resolved in precisely this form to see how to limit the availability of things. Similarly, if we change it, leave it as a visual work, it is important to ask what is being made available. When we say that we allow adult pornography, for example, but in such a way that it must be provided in such a way that children find it difficult to reach it, we may ask which websites are those that are difficult for children to find and what are those that are easy to find. This is a subject that will also be discussed in the courts. In such cases of distribution restrictions, court decisions have been found to be marginal in the world. A lot of people don't think so. The definition of this is, of course, problematic and, in my opinion, what is a marginal Internet site, we cannot solve as a legislator. It can be settled by the court, and here we can trust the court, there is nothing else left. We can't just write everything into law like that. But the subject of vice, once again, is not a matter of penal law. Punishment doesn't punish vices. It does not punish sins or immorality, but it punishes actions that violate the fundamental rights of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U52	Raivo Põldaru, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U53	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, In your second amendment, you are saying that one part of the law should be deleted where it is mentioned that the work has important artistic, scientific, historical or political value. I understand that before this work appears, someone could decide what value it is. How do you see it work? Who then decides what value the work will have before it begins to appear or, essentially, before it appears?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U54	In the case of a problem, it goes to court. If anyone has a question that we have some kind of visual work that doesn't have one of those four values, that's where the decision-making must be given to the court. Nor can the law describe this very well, as these cases are specific. But I think it's a good institution to judge this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U55	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, We all know that there is a term like 'political correctness'. We also know that on this basis classical works, such as Mark Twain's Huckleberry Finn, are rewritten, where the word 'nigger' is taken out, and things related to slavery and slavery are softened. Do you think all this fits well in the protection of the freedom of creation you stand for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U57	There was a case like this recently. If you happen to know, there's a bull on Wall Street in the United States that was once created by an Italian-American immigrant, and it was supposed to symbolize the size and power of America. Recently, a group of women made a new shape to the shape of this bull just like a little girl standing around with her hands in her hip and calling it the Fearless Girl. From this moment on, the meaning of the first work of art changed. Because the bull was no longer such a big and powerful male who moved the world forward, but someone who attacked a little girl. The designer of the statue of the bull was very evil and said that this little girl had to be taken away from here because it changed the original meaning of her work of art. However, the authors of the shape of the little girl found that they had the right to continue to make new art in the public space. Society is evolving, art is evolving, it's just a new meaning. Moreover, one can reason that, listen, when the size of America is symbolized by a bull, it is already an example of a patriarchal society. They said that we didn't change the meaning of the work of art, but we merely indicated what its hidden meaning was. Such discussions are interesting; they lead to further thought and art. There is no solution to penal law here; that is the solution to public debate. Certainly the author has the right to demand the protection of his or her text; he or she also has the right to withdraw his or her text from dissemination. In the case of this bull, the author could also have said that I'm taking this statue home now because it was still his, he rented it to New York, but he didn't do it, just to keep the art discussion up. I think that, in itself, any text, written in its own time, is valuable just as it is. If we look at Markii de Sade's work too, it's actually pretty badly written and pretty scary, but we're still publishing it and maybe not paying so much attention to it, precisely because it's a book in its own time and gives a sign of how it was thought and done. So I think that this kind of ex-post censorship is bad in itself, but I don't think it's something that should be punished for. This is again a matter of social debate. This is something we should be talking about, but maybe outside this hall and definitely outside courtrooms. Mark Twain is also a very strange story, for his works are written very clearly for the protection of the black population, i.e. questions about the word 'nigger' come from where Mark Twain actually exposed the hypocrisy of the United States' society at that time. All the more reason to keep it there. I feel very sad when there are such trends that people do not understand literature. I am afraid that the very large and wide scope of this section of the Penal Code is also due to the fact that people do not understand literature. That's sad. However, we do not regulate literature under the Penal Law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U58	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U59	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Oudekki! Well, that's awkward. But I'm asking you about a theoretical construction, because there's been an emphasis on a visual work. Is it possible that a certain pornographic work is okay as a book, but the procedure can be started when it is made into a film?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U60	Thank you. Yeah, right now it basically allows it, unless the film has a high artistic value. This is indeed the current design.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U61	Tarmo Kruusimäe, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! On what do you rely on the fact that Pier Paolo Pasolini's Salò was screened in the cinema of Friendship? I'd like to ask you about that first. Secondly, you told me about this movie, but have you seen Jean LaFleur's 1977 film "Isa the Tigress of Siberia"? Perhaps it would open your world view that not only the Nazi regime was anti-human, but also the Communist regime. So I suggest you watch this movie as a big art enthusiast, it's available online. My question, however, is: what fact do you rely on when you claim that Pier Paolo Pasolin's "Salò" film was screened in the cinema Sõprus?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U63	Thank you. Kinos Sõprus was a retrospect of Pasolin films a few years ago, and this film was actually screened there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U64	Tiit Terik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U65	Thank you. Good waitress! You just mentioned that people often don't understand literature. In recent days, the news has seen and heard about police winnings in catching sick people. People have a very lively fantasy. Is this a legislative amendment of yours a request to justify writing obscene things about children?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U66	This certainly does not justify writing obscenes about children, but simply says that if a person writes obscenes, including children, but at the same time does not take advantage of any child, he cannot be imprisoned for writing it. This does not mean that writing like this is good or right. But again, the law doesn't impose morals. The law is not art criticism. The law doesn't say it's beautiful, and we should all start doing it. No, it just says that if someone writes obscene things about a child, but doesn't harm any real children, you can't put him in jail.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U67	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U68	Thank you. You said morals and laws have nothing in common. You're very wrong. Morals are a system of norms characterized by compulsoryity, and a large part of moral standards is enshrined in the law. European moral standards are based on Christianity, mainly on ten commandments, and our laws and moral standards stand on this very foundation. You have claimed to be a communist, so you should know that communist builders also had a moral code to follow. But it seems that Communists today do not have it anymore. Do you really not understand that I am deeply interested in what follows when you break down the door between normality and pedophilia and open Pandora's box to all kinds of perversions and pedophilia? Aren't you afraid of the consequences?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U69	Thank you. I have not argued that morals and laws have nothing in common, but laws are under-qualified by morals. Morals do not deduce what the law must be. Indeed, the Koran does, and it has brought quite a lot of problems to today's world, because such a law cannot be changed by man. That would actually mean that we should all disperse from here. The fact that we have not disbanded Parliament suggests precisely that the law, the policy, is always under-determinated by morality. We have different moral positions, but we are making laws here, even though we each have our own morals, so that we can work together in one society. That is the principle of legislation. And the legislative amendment will certainly make it easier to protect children, because it will remove the burden of analysing texts that have nothing to do with real children. This has actually happened in the Estonian legal space. The purpose of this amendment is to protect real children from exploitation and normal development of children. We're not punishing anyone for writing texts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U70	Barbi Pilvre, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U71	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We're talking about restricting the freedom of creation. One of the creative areas whose artistic quality is questionable is cartoons aimed at young people and children. How are they? Do you also see the possibility that we are trying to regulate violent films in Estonia that target children and where they actually kill each other, they turn their necks around, they smack the animals, even though for some reason they rise up again? After all, films with this type of content can actually have an effect on violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U72	Thank you. This is also one of the discussions that has been held in Estonia in the meantime. Here is exactly the danger that Pandora's box will be opened, thank you for that expression! ., which leads to thought control. The way we should educate children is not really a matter of the Penal Code at all. Rather, I see the role of a very large school and family in solving this problem. Children generally look at cartoons to which they are directed or made available to them. Can we ban cartoons containing too much violence? I say again that we cannot ban them, that is, we cannot put their makers in jail. Can we say that they wouldn't be on TV when children were watching first and foremost? This is definitely a debate matter, which we could discuss here, but it is not directly relevant to this legislative amendment. I'm sure we could discuss whether it's reasonable to limit the time for movies and programmes to be available on television. The second question is to which Mr Gräzin drew attention, namely that very young children also quickly get their own pleasant things from the Internet. There's a very wide range of problems here. And that is why we have not come into this whole system of problems in this legislative amendment at all. This whole issue needs both a long social discussion and a wider discussion in this Chamber. I encourage all of you: these issues must be taken up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U73	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U74	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Hell's way is covered with good intentions. I see you're marching down this road at a very proud step. You're happy to talk about Mark Twain, talking about Sade. Good thing you're not talking about Pooh bear and donkey Eeyore yet. In fact, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, you said honestly that the only motive for this draft is the work of Kaur Kender, for which he is under trial. But somehow you don't want to talk about the descriptions or the art he was talking about. Maybe you're such an honest and brave person that you'll tell us about the rape of a one-year-old baby Kender was talking about and what you call art.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U75	Thank you. Please don't put words in my mouth that I haven't said! I have not said, either in the Committee on Legal Affairs or anywhere else, that the sole purpose of this draft is somehow to resolve the case of Kaur Kender. No, it's not. The case of Kaur Kender is being dealt with by the court. At present, the Court has found that this is literature that aims to disgust and is not covered at all by this section. Let's see what it gets when it gets further dug up and what happens to it in the justice system. Indeed, the case of Kaur Kender brought up this section in a social debate. So I noticed it, too. Many writers approached the public when the process began and said, "Hey, do something. " That's when I discovered that this section has actually been discussed by lawyers. In Juridica Abstract, there has been a long analysis of this paragraph, precisely in the sense that it is too wide and very weakly linked to the legal rights to be protected and that it should definitely be reviewed by the legislator. Therefore, the debate is, in fact, longer. The case of Kaur Kender gave the impetus, but our law does not aim to solve it. Kender's case is one of the cases that is currently pending in court, but the law is wider. Since this law is originally too widely defined, it is up to us to correct it, no matter what brought it to our attention. If any case draws our attention to the fact that a certain law does not fulfil its purpose as it should, then it is our duty to change it, regardless of what it was that brought to our attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U76	Mart Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U77	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You know, children's guards, according to our records, are strong with fear and fear that this bill will be adopted. They see very clearly that this is paving the way for the legalisation of paedophilia. There's nothing we can do to support it, and neither can they. But my question is actually the continuation of what I asked about political correctness earlier. The left has a strong urge to criminalize hate speech. How does it fit into the logic of not banning anything, not banning thoughts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U78	Thank you. I don't know exactly who you're referring to now with this hate speech ban. Estonian law indeed bans calls for crimes. And I think that calls for crimes should continue to be banned. This is one exception to freedom of expression. If you go to television and say that now all Russians have to be shot, you can't say that, that's the limit. Personally, I do not see that we need more clarification. Maybe Mr. Helme will convince me. I understand that you have a concern, because the Estonian law does not protect you enough from the hate speech directed at you. We'll talk after the hearing. Let's point out these problems, maybe we can do a bill together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U79	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U80	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! With the previous question, we came to the case of Kender, which I wanted to highlight. You have said that this amendment is wider than the Kender case, but these things are still connected. Would it not have been more reasonable to come up with this draft if the court had made its final decision? To date, the court has said that Kender's work is not punishable. Perhaps it cannot actually be said that art or freedom of speech are at risk. Protecting children is supreme, and it would be very difficult to accept it in any way that would result in their abuse. Couldn't you wait for the court settlement to come up with a bill? Then we would have been much clearer, and we would also have known whether our law was too widely defined or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U81	Thank you. Certainly, child abuse is something that cannot be accepted. Of course. And that's the point of this legislative amendment, that we deal with real child abuse cases. When will this change be introduced? In itself, it is not so important which court comes to judgment. It is rather a question of the fact that we are dealing with some text for years, for example, and we are burdening people who could at the same time study real paedophilia cases. I can see the problem. Of course, if the people in this Chamber find that we are waiting for this solution, we will be able to finish the first reading today and wait. We can do that if we have such will. But I wouldn't recommend that, precisely because the Kender case really stands out, but again, we've already seen the problem of this subject. The fact that we spend our time and money talking about a text is already problematic in itself. In any case, our penal code needs to be clarified, whether Kender or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, [[Someone's phone's been ringing for a while.]] I don't think it's downstairs in this hall, but... Okay, now the phone's turned off, and we can continue. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U83	Good vice chairman! Good waitress! I'll continue with the question of the previous questioner. As I understand it, you claim that freedom of expression is restricted in Estonia. You do not want to admit that this is related to the current court case, but then please provide examples of other Estonian literary works or works of art that are restricted by the current law. Have you also sought advice from, for example, the Chancellor of Justice or an institution such as the Child Welfare Association? Have any of them said that yes, there are restrictions on freedom of expression or creativity in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U84	Thank you. In fact, I was referring to the fact that this point is more at odds with the freedom of science and art than with freedom of expression. There has also been some debate here as to whether this subject will be subject to freedom of expression. I see that in theory it is also possible to use it against freedom of expression, but more so than that is the case with the freedom of science and art enshrined in § 38 of the Constitution. It is a matter of law, as I said before, that although one, two or three cases can and must draw our attention to problems in the legal system, we must do so with a sense for the future when we write some kind of law. We are not making laws to solve a single issue, but to resolve certain classes of cases. Here I see precisely this class of cases, where the current wording, which also allows the text to be criminalised, can lead to problems in the future. They could be cut off with today's change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U85	Tiit Terik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U86	Thank you. Good waitress! How many times have you mentioned that your application protects children and does not actually harm anyone's interests? I am still drawing attention to the speeches made by the policemen on the news yesterday, where they described the living paedophiles' thinking, fantasy and where they could get their inspiration. You're talking about freedom of art and freedom of speech, but the positions of an ex-subject are different. As a parent, I have a radically different opinion and categorically opposed your request, and that is because those people who are currently in the police interest have been very clear about where and how they get their inspiration. You are actually endangering the life and health of my children as well as of many other children. Don't you see that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U87	Thank you. I suggest you read the news that we have probably both read more attentively. In fact, there, too, these people describe the film they're imagining. They mention visual material, not text material, they don't talk about reading novels. There's a big difference. The second question, which I have already touched and which I have answered, is overly clear. For example, I think that if you, a good colleague, look at a large number of pornographic materials, you will not take advantage of children. Pedophiles can get their kicks out of a lot of things. They can get a boost just by seeing a kid on the street. We can't stop the kids from going out because maybe the pedophiles can see them. There are many of these beginnings. No single connection has been shown. Some people are known to feel this urge, but they can control it, and we don't put them in jail for it, even though they do. That's the difference, we put a person in jail when he's using someone, that is, if he's really hurting someone, or we catch him before we know clearly that he's gonna commit a crime. But if he thinks of anything, we can't punish him for it. And once again, there is no evidence that the distribution of such porn texts makes paedophiles active who would otherwise not be active. The fact that paedophiles use materials, yes, use them, does not mean the opposite. That is why the decriminalisation of writing texts does not harm real children in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U88	My colleague, Mart Helme, now has a reply or a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U89	Since the speaker mentioned my name and gave the impression that I would have called on all Russians in Estonia to kill and to perform systematically with hate speech, I strongly protest against this kind of tagging and abusive behaviour in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U90	Thank you. I can assure you, I didn't hear you say anything like that either. But I didn't hear Oudekki Loone give you any such call either. He brought, as I understand it, just a specific, extraordinarily bad theoretical example that shouldn't be done. I did not notice that Oudekki Loone had tied you to this, and there is certainly no reason to do so, because you have really not said anything like that in this Chamber. Now please, Liisa Oviir!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U91	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress and initiator of the bill! Since this particular draft is very unambiguously linked to the subject matter of child protection, it would be à priori elementary that you have interacted with child protection and the Alliance for Child Welfare on this issue. Please tell me what their position is on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U92	Thank you. At present, the Alliance for Child Welfare has not supported this change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U93	Henn Põllamaas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U94	Thank you. You are here to support pedophilia in a so-called artistic form, but certainly a cartoon is also one of the art types, it is a sub-form of film art. It is possible to combine both the text and the visual side and to make pornographic cartoons in the world. So, according to your understanding, when a cartoon, a pedophile cartoon is made, where children are used and where you can add all kinds of texts as subtitles, including pedophile texts, it's probably perfectly okay, so let's go. Like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U95	Thank you. It's not quite accurate. However, this change currently leaves a visual work punitive. Multifilm is a visual piece. If the cartoon also uses text, it does not make it a visual work. It's still some form of picture material. Now, the question of whether hentai is something that should be criminalised has given rise to many debates in Western society. In Sweden, this case has even gone up to the Supreme Court and it was decided that most hentai still do not go under child pornography, even though something might go. Finally, man was not punished, precisely because he was a hentai translator, and he was found to have collected hentai for artistic purposes. But there's a much more precise definition of purpose in the law than we do. Secondly, I would like to improve that if we do not put people in prison for writing a text, that does not mean that we will approve everything they do. It doesn't mean that. This means that we do not believe that this is an act that violates someone's fundamental rights. There's a big difference. The law does not prohibit many things that I personally find very unpleasant and disgusting, and about which I say in public that they are disgusting. But I don't think they should be banned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U96	Toomas Jürgenstein, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U97	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I admit that I am among those who think it would be beneficial for society if Kender's texts of this kind spread as little as possible. However, how do you feel about doing one theoretical construction, whether this text would have spread more than the current law that we see, or if the bill that we are currently working on were in force? In which case would this text have attracted more attention?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U98	Thank you. It's a theoretical design, so I can really only hypothesis here. But I suppose that if the written texts were not criminalised in Estonia, then Kender would not be court-martialed either. I don't think any of us in this Chamber would even know that this text exists. I think it would have appeared like so many other articles, or on an Internet portal like Nihilis. There are some articles that spread very much, and others that have a few hundred viewers. So by looking at this text, I think it would have been almost overlooked. In this sense, surely this law may even help to make such texts less widely distributed. But of course we don't know that. This is only my theoretical response to your theoretical design, which is in itself very interesting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U99	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U100	Thank you, good vice chairman. Across the world, the problem that we call Fake news is increasingly being dealt with. These are false news whose mission is to stifle our society, create panic and confusion. How does your proposal prevent the spread of false works and their informed production? There must be a value limit that would let us know that this is really an artistic work, not a deliberate panic and a break in values, morals, which is at one point a violation of the fundamental right of every human being. Your argument is that this amendment will change the situation and that fundamental rights are currently being violated. In fact, on the contrary, your amendment raises even more questions and brings more court cases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U101	Thank you. I really have to admit that now I'm in a bit of trouble because I don't know exactly what false porn is supposed to be. Is that something that looks like porn, but it really isn't? Or something that's not really porn, but if you read it a lot, it becomes porn? This is gonna get a little crazy for me. I don't see fake news like that. This is, of course, a problem in itself, and there are also such questions as whether we put people in prison or what is a person's responsibility for the facts, etc. It's also a big problem, but it doesn't really concern me here. The second question is whether the state should say that, look, we have one moral that we defend, and the other morals are not allowed. No, the state should not do that, at least certainly not by means of the Penal Code. The Penal Code is not the place where we solve moral issues. There are other methods in society for this. That doesn't mean we don't have to talk about morality in public. Surely we must also talk about this just about each and every one of us has the right and freedom to talk about our morals, to express our moral beliefs to others and to explain them, but it must not be punished. The state must not say that one morality is in any way very good, i.e. we must not impose only one acceptable morality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U102	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U103	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! There has been much talk here about freedom of expression. I am an absolutist of freedom of expression; I do not believe that there can be democracy or freedom of conscience without freedom of expression. However, freedom of expression is not entirely borderless, just as slander is not allowed under freedom of expression or as it is not allowed, for example, to commit a crime or to commit suicide. These things do not go under freedom of expression. Anti-state propaganda, where there is no direct beneficiary, because no child is suffering, is also prohibited. It doesn't go under freedom of speech. What Kender does is that I don't really want to go into this specific case, and what this bill does is normalize paedophilia. This cannot be put under freedom of expression. All normal people have to protect children, and they have to, by the way, protect morals. So what I'm asking you is, why are you doing paedophilia normalisation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U104	Thank you. I'm definitely not dealing with paedophilia normalisation. I would like to draw attention to this, even though we have really discussed freedom of expression in this Chamber today, and it also concerns freedom of expression in some corner, that the reason why this law is problematic in the sense of the Constitution is the freedom of science and art. The freedom of science and art, however, is actually wider than freedom of speech according to the Estonian Constitution, because the freedom of science and art can only be restricted for the protection of fundamental rights or other constitutional values, not for the protection of public morality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U105	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In one of your responses to a good colleague, you mentioned that you are sorry if people do not understand the text. In my opinion, one of the privileges of art is that we have a personal opportunity to understand the text differently and no one can condemn it. Tell me if I am wrong, but I have the impression in this whole debate that if we are just talking about a text or an audiovisual/visual image, we are somehow drawing a clear line where one influence is greater or less. Does that make sense in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U107	Thank you. Indeed, we have now drawn a border in such a place, precisely because visual materials are generally much more provocative, i.e. they are easier to monitor. And visual materials are generally used by real people, even though there are exceptions, such as the same hentai or even purely digital images. Why have we drawn this line right now? That is precisely because the written text is obvious: it is fiction. In the case of visual material, the point of proof is much more direct. If I show a movie where the baby's used, there's a real kid out there. If there's a computer graphics film that looks like there's a real kid, but it's not, then I think we're gonna have a too dangerous uncertainty problem. Whether we should raise this border somewhere is definitely something that we could discuss between two readings. In the case of written text, the limit is simply very clear: it is certainly a writer's fantasy. There's no such thing as a child on paper. If this is proof of something, it is another question, but the text itself does not contain a child. That's another thing. Reading the text requires much greater spiritual effort than viewing visual material. This is also the reason why we found that decriminalising the text is easier, but the image, for example, of these same hentai, should be discussed in greater detail and see if there is any need to clarify it. Perhaps we could also include the theme of the purpose of creating images in the Estonian legal system. That is also one thing to think about in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U108	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U109	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You repeatedly used two combinations of words in your presentation: "Fictional Child' and "Fictional Child'. Who are they? Are these kids that don't exist? Or is it? When will an imaginary child become real according to your approach? Is it only when a precedent arises when real and irreversible consequences arise and medical and legal intervention is needed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U110	Thank you. Fake kids can't become real. Real kids are out there somewhere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U111	Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U112	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I think everyone in this Chamber thinks that freedom of creation and freedom at all are good, but certain limits and norms have always been in place in society. Yesterday, when our very long day's work went out almost overnight, several child protection workers approached me. I spoke to a couple of juvenile policemen myself. The boundaries between where the act has taken place and what it is motivated about are often quite thin. They read something, exchange SMS, fantasize, and start running the picture. I don't think it's strange to you either, that reading some very good books, really to the top of the art, runs in front of your eyes a story and a picture of it. Here is the distinction that one is like just a book that requires effort, and the other is visual, extremely complex. Have you also met and talked to, for example, the youth police or child protection workers? The Alliance for Child Welfare has made its position very clear. Believe me, they do share their field.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U113	Thank you. Here's again the question that, from the moment a man imagines something, we're not going to put anyone in jail under the law. That is precisely the question of thought control. The same thing about the text is also: that is the point. It may be a picture that runs in front of you, but if you write a text, you won't harm a real child. We're going to draw that line right there. The visual side is excluded, precisely because, when the text is mostly fictional, visual material is usually used to record activities performed by real persons there using real children. That is why it is set aside, not because of what people may or may not think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U114	Marianne Mikko.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U115	Thank you very much. We've had a lot of discussion here at times. I have to admit that I joined the initiators of this bill precisely because, in my understanding, this is a situation where freedom of expression and freedom of creation versus censorship and punishment. Oudekki Loone, please confirm that this is the key issue that these 14 people gave their hand to and that we stand for here!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U116	Thank you. That's right, that's what the explanatory memorandum says. We have been referred to there that Article 38 of the Constitution states: science and art and their teachings are free. This is a fundamental right without reservation under the law. If the work contains only fictitious characters, its creation does not violate the fundamental rights of any person. We also have it in the explanatory memorandum. The purpose of our legislative amendment is not to normalise paedophilia in any way, but, on the contrary, to formulate more precisely those rules that help to combat paedophiles who exploit children. What some people are able to do with small children is indeed extremely disgusting, it is horrible. I think that no one here is questioning: every such act should be punished and these acts should be prevented. But this must all take place within the framework of our constitution. That is why writers, for example, have expressed very clear support, because they see that their constitutional law is not well formulated here. Actually, we're not gonna change anything, we're just going to specify.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U117	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U118	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good performer! Look, this may have been the main issue for the drafters, but for all of us, the main issue is protecting children. I would like to come back to what you have repeatedly said here, 'laws must not be dealt with or'moral'. This statement is absolutely wrong and misleading! All laws are moral, starting with Hammurabi's laws and ten commandments and ending with all our laws. They stand on morale. So killing isn't wrong because it's forbidden, it's still forbidden because it's wrong. It's the same with other things. Pedophilia is also prohibited, not because it somehow causes economic harm to someone or because it involves some kind of complication, but simply because it is wrong. In this sense, misuse of children is the deepest foundation of moral decline. Now I would like a clear answer from you. Why are you promoting this depth of morality?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U119	Thank you. This amendment certainly does not promote the depth of morality. It is based on the idea that we all have rights, and the state is also designed to protect those rights. We have agreed together and, in a referendum, adopted a constitution which says that everyone has rights and very clearly defines where these fundamental rights and other rights may be restricted. Still, it comes from the idea that taking another person's life also violates his right to life. This can also be justified in this way. And that again shows what I have already said: laws and politics are underlying morally. Morals can't be clearly deduced from laws. Which laws to pass, we must argue through. And that's the big difference. Therefore, the state must not establish one true ideology, one true morality, on the basis of which we would then immediately do all the laws, because then it would no longer be a democracy, then we would no longer be free. This does not mean that we promote or should promote all things that are not prohibited by law. This means that we do not believe that these are acts against the fundamental rights of other people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U120	Urmas Kruuse, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U121	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! There has been a lot of talk here about freedom, although it could be said that freedom is also not about doing what I think is as important as the fact that I can do one work. But this line is getting more and more vague when we're still talking about visual and audio-visual representation, because the movie is always playing some roles. So where's the line between the role and the real person? You're talking about being real people. But in movies, minors can also be embodied by adults when taken from this perspective. I certainly do not agree that the Riigikogu should not discuss moral and ethical issues, because if it does not do so here, in one way or another, it will be very difficult for it to establish moral and ethical standards that are important both visually and communicatively for the whole of society. In the end, however, it becomes more important that it does not matter whether visual or textual representation is a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U122	Thank you. That was more of a comment now. Section of the Penal Code states that a person under 18 years of age in a pornographic or under 14-year-old person for a pornographic or erotic picture, etc., is punishable. Actually, it doesn't matter if we have a grown man. In the same Pasolin movie Salò, all actors were adult, though minor in their role. Full - grown people understand their role sometimes with what's really happening. Adults are able to turn away from the role, so it is more difficult to take advantage of them, even though it happens. If we find that someone is forced to play in a movie, whether porn or not, it's definitely a violation of his freedom, but it's all governed by other laws. It is precisely because we protect children because they cannot stand up to their own freedoms. Here, the state protects children more than adults. I think it should definitely be kept that we are restricting what movies children can perform in. Pornography should definitely fall under it, precisely because it can mean making very horrible crimes for children. There are real children here that need to be protected. Real children must be protected and protected by the law, and we will not change that. This will be the written and visual distinction. There are no real children in the written text, there are words in the written text, just words.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U123	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U124	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would first like to comment that there is a party on the left side and a group that takes all the assessments very painfully, but that is where the comment on child protection came from, as if we did not take it into account as draft authors. There might be fewer such black and white assessments in this hall. Surely I too consider child protection and child protection to be very important. But my question will be a little broader. Estonian society is highly criminalised at all, if we compare ourselves with Europe and the world, then at some point we had more than 51% of those who were subject to criminal penalties. The United States of America we know there wouldn't have been a crime in the so-called Kender case. Can you compare how this issue has been resolved in European countries and in some other countries of the world?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U125	This textual issue of child pornography has been discussed in several countries. The texts have indeed been criminalised in a few countries, such as one in Australia, for example, for prisoners, i.e. prisoners are prohibited from creating child pornography material. In Canada, it is analogous to textual, but they are also in the process of discussion, and their starting point was precisely 14 year-old SMS. It may be that they too are moving towards a change of laws in this regard. When we look at Europe, we also have the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the explanatory memorandum. I'm not going to read it here, but I would point out that child pornography is also defined by visual and sexual representation in particular. These two principles will solve very well the problem we are talking about, where art goes and where science goes, where the chronicle goes and where children are exploited. It is likely that this visual representation for sexual purposes will also give some worship to morality, even though it is indeed very clear that we are talking about acts, that is, we are punishing acts. So the general trend in Europe is rather to formulate laws as far as possible so that they punish acts, i.e. do not punish thoughts, do not punish people, do not defend morals. That doesn't mean we don't have to talk about morality. But we can't tell each other morale. We can only find some kind of agreement in the law about what this common rule might be, which is more or less satisfactory to both of us, i.e. to me and your moral laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U126	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U127	Good manager! Good waitress! After yesterday, today's debate here seems like a hangover time. But I have a specific question. If the work has a great artistic value, then okay, I'm trying to understand. It says here that it will be released from the use of the paragraph if it also has scientific, historical or political value. Does this mean that, for example, if some sort of pornographic material were found on President Kaljulaid's computer, or the esteemed Eiki Nestor would send a picture of this, say, to the Commander of the Defence Forces, Riho Terras, or if President Tarmo Soomere of the Academy did something like this, they would have important political or scientific value? What is the background to these things? Where does this great political, scientific, or historical value come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U128	Thank you. These are the exceptions that are generally used in the legal practice of the world for such laws. This certainly does not mean that everything a politician does has a great political value. Absolutely not. This means, however, that if, for example, someone bombards a country with a chemical weapon and a picture is taken of it, such as naked children, and it is published, it has great political value and should not be prohibited under such an paragraph. It's a political value.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U129	Marianne Mikko, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U130	Thank you very much. The idea of the freedom to write a text and how we all read these freely created texts has sounded a lot in this Chamber. My question to you is this: does every text created mean a priori that it is mandatory for all of us to read it? How do you feel about this relationship?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U131	Thank you. Surely the fact that we are right does not mean that everyone has an obligation to listen to you, nor does freedom of speech. That means you can't be prevented from talking. Similarly, as my colleague said earlier, we have the freedom not to create such texts. Nothing obliges these texts to create or consume them. Indeed, I think that if the creation of these texts is not prohibited, they will be consumed considerably less in a paradoxical way. That's my personal opinion. It certainly does not prescribe that we should now do more with child pornography. It just leaves a very small niche free from people who write things of this kind and so free that we don't put them in jail. This does not mean that we do not condemn them in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would point out that it has become so high that it is difficult to listen to a waitress. I'm asking you to keep an eye on the loudness of the conversations. Next please, Andrei Novikov!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U133	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I believe that if today in this Chamber, in the Riigikogu, a draft writing was put to the vote, most of this House would have voted in favour of condemning the text, as it really contains something that is not normal and would also send a signal to society about the limit of tolerance. Does it not seem to you that this draft would rule out such an opportunity by giving, in some respects, indulgence to what it should not be given?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U134	Thank you. I hope that this hall will never take decisions on a text, i.e. whether a text is condemnable. We have lived in a country where such decisions were made for too long. I do not want us to go back there, because Parliament is going to condemn the texts. No way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U135	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U136	Good manager! Good waitress! I did not get an answer, however, which is the important scientific, historical or political value of child pornography in today's Estonian society, where no bombing is taking place. If I read here that the text isn't visual, it's been a long time since I heard such nonsense. The text is visual. And the purpose of the creator of the text is to create a visual image, so that everything is as real as children, animals, women, men, or anyone. But still, answer me. What is the important scientific, historical or political value of child pornography?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U137	Thank you. The point is to say that child pornography is not a work that has an important artistic, scientific, historical or political value. For example, medically scientific value may be the representation of the sexual organs of a child in a medical science journal for medical research purposes, including, for example, the representation of sexual organs of used children. This must be demonstrated, for example, to medical students, and why not also in training children's guards or social workers. It has to be shown, that's the point. The reason why there is no more of this, more specifically unwritten, and I have not seen it being more defined by law, is that it is a case-by-case issue which is for the court to decide. As for whether or not Estonia is being bombed, Estonia's news is not limited to what is happening in Estonia. We also know what's going on everywhere else. We should not open up any road to censorship, because we can all say, very simply, that indeed all the people in this Chamber, both those who are the initiators of this bill and everyone else, have today expressed their absolute condemnation of the exploitation of children. We all have this knowledge that this is something we can't do. If we formulate a very broad paragraph to that effect, its abuse will become very simple. We must not allow the disgust that comes from protecting real children to be used in any way for bad purposes. That's the point of this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U138	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I would like to ask Liisa Oviir, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to be the rapporteur for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U139	Good vice chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! During this rather long and passionate debate, several mistaken and misleading facts were presented. I hope it was all because of ignorance. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft on 5 June 2017. Uno Kaskpeit, Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Valdo Randpere were also invited to the debate by the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu and Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice. Draft § 178 of the Penal Code Amendment Act 422 was introduced by the initiator Oudekki Loone. He spoke about the content and objectives of the law and estimated that the provision of the Penal Code in question was very widely formulated and was allegedly brought to the attention of a number of lawyers. He said that the wording of § 178 of the current Penal Code defines child pornography in a way that includes written texts and does not allow the focus to be placed on a particular materially damaging problem, but allows the creation of cases where morality is protected. The performer's assessment was that criminal law cannot guarantee morality; immoral acts can only be condemned by society. The rapporteur explained that the relevant provision of the Penal Code protects the normal sexual development of the child. The acts described in the provision are punishable primarily because they should protect children who actually exist, but because the wording in force is too broad, it deviates from that objective and is too weakly protected by the damage to the law. In addition, the rapporteur confirmed that this paragraph was unconstitutional because it was contrary to the principles of freedom of art and science. The current Penal Code also identifies a written work as a threat, but the children in the written work, according to the author, are always fictional. According to Oudekki Loone, the current wording of the Penal Code places too much pressure on the legal system in cases that have no connection with harming real children either at the moment of creation or at the time of use of the text. A discussion in the Commission followed. One of the initiators, Valdo Randpere, expressed the view that in this case there is indeed a legal gap that could be regulated. In his view, it is important to support the idea that thoughts are not punished. The Randper family wanted to announce that the draft should be specified in a way that makes it clear that the work must be fictional. Liisa Oviir quoted former Attorney General Margus Kurm, who, as a practitioner, said that no pedophile would immediately start the rape of a child, that the pedophile would have to mature, or that if Kaur Kender's words were used, then psychologically disintegrate. Sadly, such ripening or decay usually occurs in the midst of child pornography works and with their help. I also added that the abstract depiction of a child in a pornographic situation poses an equal risk to children as it normalises child pornography to a significant extent, normalises the activities depicted and encourages pedophiles to abuse children sexually. In doing so, it is wrong for the initiators to consider that only real damage is punishable in the case of § 178 of the Penal Code. In fact, there is also a risk of real damage. A similar example is that of drunk driving, which is punishable in any case, regardless of whether it caused a real accident or not. I also pointed out that, as a result of technological developments, such works are quickly made available to a very large number of people. It thus affects even more and more people's understanding. As a result of the introduction of new technologies, one of the objectives of the European Parliament's policies to prevent child sexual abuse is precisely to reduce the increasing prevalence of child sexual abuse and exploitation, which is actually at the top of its spread and has already left a mark on real behaviour. So this is a conflict of fundamental rights. By putting freedom of expression, freedom of science or freedom of art on one side and the right of children to grow safely on the other side, priority should be given to children's health, their right to normal development. The same choice has been made both by the Constitution and by the European Convention on Human Rights. Oudekki Loone stated that there was really no knowledge of how much and what material would make people take advantage of children, but he did not deny that there could be a certain effect on such texts. Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu stated that the government will certainly not support the draft under discussion. Firstly, because the international commitments we have made to other countries do not allow such support. Secondly, it is a question of morality, which is very clearly in the area of protection of the Penal Code. According to the Minister of Justice, the Penal Code is aware of so-called verbal crimes, such as incitement to hatred, threats, appeals to terrorist offences, and also calls for the betrayal of the Estonian state. According to Reinsalu, any word that can be created against the universal legal benefit of society should be in the area of protection of fundamental rights. Hardi Volmer pointed out that computer graphics can process unfamiliarly any basic material, and another matter is the painting, which may be based on a real child, and it is expected to be thoroughly investigated and proved. However, it can be difficult. According to Volmer, the nature of the problem is to the extent that such materials can stimulate perverts to act in an appropriate direction. Following this, the chairman of the committee proposed that the question be put to the vote as to whether the first reading of the draft should be completed. Toomas Vitsut, Valdo Randpere and Hardi Volmer voted in favour, against Raivo Aeg, Liisa Oviir, Jaanus Karilaid, Külliki Kübarsepp, Uno Kaskpeit and Urve Tiidus. Consequently, the Commission's proposal to reject the draft at first reading and appoint Ms Oviir as rapporteur was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U140	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. First please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U141	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You're an education lawyer. Much has been said today about morality, in many ways. I have this question: does the Penal Code still have moral standards that are regulated there? Perhaps you can give some examples.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U142	It has sounded through this debate that morality is not in the area of application of the Penal Code and the Penal Code has nothing to do with morality. It's a completely baseless misunderstanding. At one point, a large part of the formations currently in the Penal Code have been the result of precisely moral standards. Even now, only morally sound compositions, such as human cloning or the taunting of the memory of the deceased, and the blasphemy of the official symbol of the international organization, are very clear. There's actually quite a few of them. So a lot of the paragraphs and compositions that are in the Penal Code are directly related to morality and ethics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U143	Raivo Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U144	Thank you. Good waitress! My question is also motivated by the fact that you are a lawyer, and today we are dealing with law, not morals, because we have a draft law in this debate. If we look at this directive of the European Parliament and of the Council which defines the content of child pornography, there is a very clear distinction between visual representation and realistic representation. What do you think is the difference between them? In their explanatory memorandum, the drafters state that the text is not visual, although it can be argued and that the text cannot represent a child or a person who appears to be a child as being realistic. How is it possible that nothing in the text can be portrayed as realistic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U145	This can be answered on a number of sides. I believe that it is best to come back to the debate in our committee. There the Oudekki Loone Jaanus somehow answered Kariladi's question in such a way that the same Kender text is one of the underlying reasons for this draft. I think that when you read this text, the accuracy of the description and the visual image that arises are much stronger and more vibrant. No picture material could pass it on like this. It is therefore clear that written texts are designed to make fantasy live, so that very clear connections appear in a person's head and a filmlike material begins to run.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U146	No further questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. First please on behalf of Estonian Conservative People's Party Raivo Põldaru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U147	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, It was good to hear sobering thoughts from the Commission's representative, because at the beginning it came to me that there were only those ideas brought here by the author of the draft and that were really as thorough and as confusing as the Kört-Pärt shirt on Sunday morning. I would take back what I said on my question, that there was something philosophical about it, because in the end, everything got really messed up. We were supposed to go to church for moral reasons, not to go to the country anymore, and everything else. My thoughts were already discussed in many respects in the speech of the Commission's rapporteur, but I would point out that the legal system in Estonia is punishing acts, thoughts are still not being punished. Obviously, that's the way it is right now. To manipulate someone's thoughts by punishing them is not right. After all, the thoughts spoken or written and made available to others are not just thoughts but already words. We have a number of paragraphs about written or spoken words. Otherwise, our words could no longer be tempting, threatening, insulting, influencing, blackmailing and all that. It is suggested that the law enforcement system should not spend resources on investigating thought crimes, but focus on actions that cause real children to suffer. Indeed. The rapporteur's statement was that there had been no talk about those people who were specifically involved in protecting children and in legal matters and the crimes that were being committed against children. I guess it would have become clear that this legislative amendment that is being proposed today does not really protect children in any way. Maybe it really protects the man of letters. And it was said that the writer himself would not commit violence against children. Indeed, the writer does not deliver, but others do the reading of the scripture. The acts of sexual abuse of children always begin with the thinking of a criminal long before action is achieved. A lot has been said and will continue to be said about the necessity and effectiveness of prevention. So, in any case, it is also necessary to do the most to ensure that people do not dare or want to go beyond thoughts. This could even be the most important objective. Their freedom of thought remains with them, but it should not have any real or legal expression in words or other artistic expressions. If the legislator makes concessions here, i.e. wants to declare the depiction of the sexual abuse of children in words and pictures, that is to say, literature and art, the use of these materials for the purposes of 'education of children' would be acceptable in the sense of § 179 of the Penal Code. It would no longer be to tempt children, but to introduce art and literature to the legal possibility of normalising abuse and removing barriers from children, so that they would actually be easier to abuse. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Since the clock was going on and my future thoughts are very much in line with those of the Commission, I will just say one more thing: perhaps it would be more reasonable for us to deal with another paragraph and talk about § 145 of the Penal Code, which allows children, minors, to have sex with each other. But that is not what we are talking about in the framework of today's bill. I am pleased that the Commission has made such a proposal, as has already been said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U148	Next, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to ask Jüri Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U149	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is once again one of those times when I formally use the speaking time given to the group, because we are not allowed to do so to individual Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but I am actually speaking on my own behalf. I am grateful to my group for being allowed to do so. The subject of my speech is the Penal Code and the question of the honour of the Penal Code. In the Riigikogu, there has been a repeat of the fact that, if there has been some kind of act in society, some Members feel that it is their duty to respond to it. How else could it be, because the work of the Riigikogu is to amend laws and make laws. A bill will be presented in order to change the criminal law in any way. The first such case was during the VII Riigikogu. I can't remember the details, but there was a murder committed by a 13-year-old kid. Then a member of my group, then a member of the ERSP Group, found that it was necessary to lower the penalty for murder in the criminal code to 13 years. And that's what happened. As far as I am concerned, there have been no cases in Estonia since the murder was committed by a 13-year-old or younger person. We have had rapid and inadequate responses over and over again. We have also had different situations where we have not wanted to supplement the Penal Code because of some unusual crime, but rather to protect and release someone who is indicted. At the time of the Penal Code, we had a very energetic member of the Reform Party in the Riigikogu, Kristiina Ojuland. So far, he's left his party at the time. At the time, however, for some reason, which I do not remember exactly, he considered it necessary to delete the crimes, insults and slanders of so-called private accusations from Estonian law. He backed the whole Reform Party faction behind this idea, and those things were taken out of the code. In retrospect, it's caused some very bad problems. This means that protection was lost in Estonia against such acts. At present, this is only possible by civil action, which is, in fact, impossible for a person who is a little less rich than a millionaire. My main appeal is that because of one case, especially if it has not even been completed, such as the current Kender dispute, it would not be worth hurried to change the Penal Code. It doesn't make any sense. Now a little bit of the penal code system. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U150	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U151	Our Penal Code is structured according to a scheme that every chapter is an offence against a particular offence. But since we live in modern times, we do not have such an object of wrongdoing as public morality. We have not treated offences against public morality as a separate chapter in the Penal Code. That doesn't mean there's no such thing as accusations. They exist, but they've been scattered elsewhere. The paragraph under consideration is quite typical. It is in a chapter where there are offences against minors. Actually, it's a moral paragraph. It's put there, and you have to figure out why it's like that. Morals are a phenomenon that is constantly changing. One of the important changes of the 20th century has been that historically, traditionally considered pornographic activities have been raised to at least the acceptable level of European culture and have thus been decriminalised. However, there are some specific forms of pornography that have been excluded from universal acceptance. In any case, there will be borderline cases. However, the problem with cross-border issues is that they can never be resolved under the general law, but must be left to deal with by chance, case by case. Therefore, in situations where there is a sharp conflict between opinions and cases in society, the final decision must be left to prosecutors and judges. That is their business, and the reason why we keep them on the payroll of the Estonian state is that they can come up with a solution for such matters. It is a matter of course whether it is a general solution acceptable to everyone, but at least from the point of view of society as a whole, to some reasonable compromise solution. My main appeal is that, in the light of the case in question, I do not see any error in the Penal Code which makes it necessary to supplement or delete something from it. Let's let this evaluation process go its own way. It's a moral assessment. Only when the moral issue has been assessed can we speak of punishment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U152	Next, on behalf of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U153	I would point out that this draft has not been submitted by the political groups; it has not been submitted by the government; it has been presented by individual members; three people from the Social Democratic Party; four from the Centre Party; five from the Reform Party; and one from the Free Party. This shows that the question is in some respects not directly related to any of these fundamental ideologies, in particular whether the Penal Code must defend morality or not. In the Central Party Group, too, when we discussed this, our own members differed in their views on this amendment. Some found it very clear: it is not possible that the law would establish morality. The law may protect morals, but it cannot establish one true morality. Some of us had the impression that this is exactly what this paragraph is doing, and it is dangerous, it is dangerous for all of us. Others found it dangerous for children to write pornographic texts. They thought it could affect paedophiles too much, it could normalize them. Indeed, it is better to be tougher than not. The third found that since Mr. Kender's writing is so horrible, it would be better not to touch it at all. That argument was also true. We found that the real question is that there are some things in this Chamber that could come from individual members of the Riigikogu. Things that aren't identifiable on the real left-right scale, like we're dividing here. And this is where individual members can vote on the basis of their conscience. Especially when there is a question that has something to do with morality, because we cannot tell each other what kind of morality we have to support. That is why the Centre Party has decided today that we are going to celebrate such a democracy. We hope that everyone will vote according to their conscience. We appreciate it when all our delegates can always vote in harmony with their conscience and never conflict with it. Since we did not have a common position, we did not shape the joint decision. Everyone votes as he sees fit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-15_U154	Any more calls? No, it's not. Then I'll finish the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 422 at first reading. I will put the proposal of the commission to the vote, but before that, we will call our colleagues to the Chamber. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject 422 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 52 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal, 9 against, 2 abstentions. By doing so, the draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. Closure of the sitting at 12.27 p.m.
