ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U1	Honourable Riigikogu, hello and strength! We will begin the 4th working week Thursday session of the VI session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? It is. Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U2	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Last night, ETV had a very moody show called 'Smooth Clean', where I too could get involved. It was intellectually interesting, but, of course, the most colourful of Mikhail Korb's Centre Party was there, who, among other things, expressed the opinion that the Crimean referendum was okay. Since this position was expressed by the Secretary-General of the Centre Party and in the past, several politicians in the Central Party have thought that the Crimean referendum was okay or legitimate, we are quite concerned about how this position is exactly the case in the Prime Minister's Party of the Presidency of the European Union. Several members of the Reform Party have some questions for the Prime Minister in this regard. Firstly, is the Central Party's position on the Crimean referendum still at odds with the position confirmed at the highest levels of Estonia, the European Union and the UN that the Crimean referendum was illegal and an infringement of international law? Secondly, does the Prime Minister acknowledge the results of the Crimean referendum? Thirdly, whether and when does the Centre Party intend to harmonise its position on the Crimean referendum with the position of Estonia and the European Union or, on the contrary, Estonia, as the Presidency of the European Union, intends to initiate a change in the policy of the European Union on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U3	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U4	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! I am submitting a draft law amending the Financial Management Act of the local government unit to the procedure on behalf of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. This draft provides for the improvement of audit controls in local authorities, which in the meantime became more relaxed due to legislative changes, without this being the will of the legislator. We believe that municipalities should also have a form of public-interest entity report that is more comprehensive than currently allowed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U5	No more wishes. I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. We will continue to act with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 74 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U6	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first is of crucial importance to the national... Oh, the news! I'm sorry, I was inconspicuous! There is one message. Today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting of the Estonian-Egypt parliamentary group in this Chamber. The caller is Oudekki Loone. And now we can... Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U7	Thank you, good speaker! Since you are trying to keep quiet again today about the birthday of one of our colleagues, namely Anne Sulling's birthday, I would like to know what is the policy of the board in congratulating the members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U8	Anne Sulling, happy birthday! [[Let's hear it.]] And now, at last, we will begin work on the points on today's agenda. Debate on a crucially important national issue of 'the future prospects of East-Viru County'. Now for this procedure. The initiator of this item has proposed that we process it in such a way that the presentation by the company, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of AS Kunda Trans and the chairman of the Supervisory Board of AS Lajos, Lembit Kaljuvee, will last up to 20 minutes, the questions and answers will last up to 30 minutes. The report by Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, then lasts up to 20 minutes, questions and answers last up to 30 minutes. Then Mikhail Stalnukhin, a member of the Centre Party Group, will have a presentation lasting up to 20 minutes, and the questions and answers will last up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. As always in such negotiations, there is a desire for the representatives of the political groups to speak first. Let's get started. I invite the speaker of the Riigikogu, the chairman of the Supervisory Board of AS Kunda Trans and the chairman of the Supervisory Board of AS Lajos, our former colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U9	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, It's really homey and enjoyable to stand here and talk to you today. When Kersti Sarapuu called me exactly two weeks ago and asked if I'd come here to talk to you today, before he finished, I was able to say yes, I'm coming. Kersti stopped talking for a long time and thought. After all, he was ready to start telling me that you had to come and come anyway. It was also a surprise to me how I answered so quickly, because I have been quite often invited to talk there and there lately, but then I've taken some time to think. When I put the phone away, I started thinking, really, how did I answer so quickly? Then I realized that I had this will to talk to you about Ida-Virumaa, to talk to you about my thoughts and experiences. These thoughts and experiences that I have sometimes hurt me, and sometimes I think about these things one way or the other. Why do I want to talk in front of you? Because I believe in you, good members of the Riigikogu, I believe you can make the right decisions here. What your decisions should be, you know that. They don't answer questions here, they give directions here. I believe that with your decisions, you will be able to give Ida-Viru County the right direction for its development. It is precisely this right direction that this potential, which has been spoken about in this Chamber and which has been very much discussed at a number of development conferences, should be realised and recorded in any development plan that deals with the whole region or some sectors, such as the oil shale sector, etc. There have been many papers and studies. I would not say that these studies are bad or very inadequate. But there has always been one very important part missing in these studies. I'm not saying it's the most important part, but it's a very important part of the money. There's no money on these programs. That's one thing. Why else would I want to talk to you about this? I had a happy childhood in Kohtla-Järve. My home was between Järve Manor and Kohtla-Järve City. This house was 250 years old at the time, and now, unfortunately, he's gone. It was my great-grandfather's farm, and we lived there. My happy childhood school years began in Kohtla-Järve High School 4. I was the only one in class who wasn't a October kid or a pioneer. I wanted to be a October child and a pioneer, but Dad wouldn't let me. The father simply said that he would not enter the party and that his children would not become a October child or a pioneer. He was an educated man, he had graduated from the upper secondary school in Jõhvi, studied forestry in Tartu and construction in Tallinn and Moscow. He led four major construction organisations in the Kohtla-Järve district for 40 years as chief engineer. He was also at war, went to Courland. But he had these principles. When he left 12 years ago, before that, he told me you had to fight for the land of our fathers. Today, our hands are not well run; our land is free, but we do not know how to do the right thing with this region; we cannot exploit the potential that this region has for our people and for the entire Estonian people. If we look at what we have tried and managed to do in these 25 years in Ida-Virumaa with you and the entire Estonian people for this region, we should look at three important components. Only a few or three weeks ago was the Narva Development Conference saying that the most important potential there is is the people, the 150,000 people who live there. That's all that matters. It is very important that these are technically highly educated, smart people. There are not only dozens and dozens of Soviet doctors, there are people who have been awarded a doctorate today, there are candidates for science, there are people who have graduated from very good schools in either Leningrad or Moscow, they have enormous wisdom and they have actually proved their loyalty to all of us and to themselves to our country and country. I remember very well the times of 30 years ago, I remember what was said at the councils of these three cities and what was said on the street. This nation has been loyal to us, but we have not always dealt with them in the way that our people must be. I can give you an example. Here on the remote, Stalnukhin once wanted these people to privatize their land. They weren't given that chance. Such a little nuance, but I think it's a lot of meaning, and they think it's especially important. Speaking of people's potential, I am talking not only about people with technical education, but also about teachers. How many teachers there had studied at the universities of Moscow and Leningrad! Let's see what the results of Sillamäe School were completed. One year, 20 graduates of this high school received a gold medal. We should consider how we have dealt with these people, which direction we should choose, which environment we have built for them or helped them build for ourselves in 20 years. Of course, you could say that they might like to live in such an environment. For example, Kohtla-Järve has maybe ten repaired facade houses, and I'm guessing maybe I'm overreacting right now. Or look at the stairwells of these houses. Is it all these people's fault? There are a great many examples of this. We have to understand that 26 years ago, these people had the rubies of power stations, the switches for the water pumps in the mines and the taps for the pumps in the chemical plants. This people were loyal to us. Why were these people loyal? Because they lived here, but also because they believed in us, the rest of the people, the Riigikogu, they believed that we could move on together. Here we have made mistakes. I'm not saying mistakes can always be avoided, but we should try. You could talk about people forever, maybe I'll come back to that. The second whale on the basis of which we estimate this potential is mineral resources. All oil shale technology, then related to the chemical industry or energy, has potential. For example, in ten years we have and you have distributed the dividends of Eesti Energia alone for 650 million. In the various years, EUR 50 to 90 million of dividends have been taken from it. Jürgen Ligi knows that very well. This is the payer of the largest dividends to the Estonian state at all. Of course, you know everything. Taxes on these dividends alone have been paid to the state budget at 130 million. The state budget has paid a pollution fee, water use fee and resource fee of almost 600 million, half of which has come directly to the state budget, the smallest part has gone to the municipalities, by which then the manor of Mäetaguse has been fixed, the Aaviksoo bear has been bought and such small things have been done. It's a little money, but it's a very big resource. The Estonian resources are located in Northern Estonia in Viru County. The story of mineral resources is like all potential values: they can be used for the benefit of their country and their people, but also to the detriment of their country and their people. To the detriment of the earth and the people, this potential is directed, not intentionally, but mostly by foolishness. People still want to do good, and members of the Riigikogu, I believe, especially want our people to live well and our country to do well. It's like the first and second pillars are connected. Let's see the bill. In the Nordic countries, and I am not talking about Norway, more than 20% of national income comes from the so-called land or, rather, budgetary revenue. More than 20% of this comes from the Nordic countries in Finland and Sweden. Although we are richer in terms of mineral resources, we receive 10% of the income from them. It is not a question of wanting, it is a question of stupidity if we do not adopt them and do not even want to study them. There was no national geology service in Estonia for 20 years; the state did not deal with it. Geology was chaotic, the database was starting to disperse, but now it's in the right direction. The third potential is the location. There has been so much talk about the same remote control that we could be the European Union's gateway to Eurasia. Are we? At the last Narva Development Conference, Tiit Vähi said that we have built a Berlin Wall on the Narva River. Of course, we can talk about what the other side is doing. I think that whatever the other side is, whatever your neighbor is, but if you don't get along best with each other, it's not the fault of the other side alone, it's at least that much of our problem and our question. Today, Russia does not need us; it does not have time for us; we are such a small country, almost nonexistent. We don't want to peck on him, let's try to get along with him. I also have three neighbors in the house near Rakvere, one I don't like best, but when we meet, we always smile and say hello. That's it. These are the three whales we need to focus on and understand. I've been involved in this program, which will be reported by Jaak Aab next. I have not seen it as a whole yet, but I would say that it is indeed such a nice, fun and very right thing to say about what should be done and what should have been done a long time ago. I think it's the right thing, but it's small and it's kind of tight. You could say he's in his infancy. In fact, he doesn't even have his shoes on yet, he's like in his pants. But I want to believe this program will start. If you look at these numbers and how they've been trying to do this program, you have to say, it's like they've been taken a little bit. But it has to be a big program, both in terms of numbers and content and soul, so that he can get started and become a thing. He's got to work out. We must all understand here that the way we support ourselves together with the Eastern virumaans in Ida-Virumaa is a question of Estonia's existence. The issue of the existence of independent Estonia is certainly a question. I can feel it. I've lived there my whole life, in my mind I've lived there since 1720.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U10	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! Since I've realized that time is being measured with a stopwatch today, I have to tell you that your report time is over, and now you have to start answering questions. Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U11	Thank you, good friend Lembit, for this fine presentation. Unfortunately, when I heard the title of today's debate, I had this déjà-vu at the beginning, because I have heard it many times before. For a few decades it has been said that Ida-Viru County has enormous potential and that Ida-Viru is our uncut diamond. The reality, however, is slightly different: one of the lowest incomes in Estonia, poverty, labour shortages, etc. I myself believe that the key word is the development of the region's economy. If there is a good income, many problems will fall away. Good Lembit, what's wrong? It is as if on the one hand the state is making contributions, it is encouraging industry, it is building industrial parks. Give us the recommendation that we legislators should focus on so that we do not talk infinity about opportunities and perspective, but rather analyse achievements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U12	That is a big and broad question. In part, I was already trying to provide answers in my main report. It can be said that the potential can be exploited and preserved if it is also helped to keep it on the sidelines. For example, I would like to mention environmental charges. We have received environmental charges of EUR 600 million over the last ten years, but what have we given back to this region? We haven't grinded that diamond much. Although I would always like to say that you have done nothing and what you are saying here is that the state has helped and has done serious things. The most serious thing that has perfected this potential and from where this potential has been polished is that we have built new Petroter factories. This VKG thing has cost 500 million. Eesti Energia has invested around a billion funds there over 10 years, Silmet has invested 500 million. But where are these tools put? This part is like polished, right? The material side is done. But this spiritual side... Business is actually human. It's not technology, it's not mineral, it's not business. If there isn't a person back there, this business isn't coming. But the people have flown out of there, almost 50,000 people have left in the last ten years. That's where we've lost our potential. Why have we lost? We have not been able to create such an environment there with these people that they want to live and these plants will be used. Who's done the grinding? VKG oil plants are not built by Grassland or Piilmann or Laos. Petrovich was the one who there, along with his disciples, built these factories. These people did it, others gave direction or, say, arranged the thing, the people on the ground, not alone in the VKG, but also in Silmet. We'll take Eesti Energia. Yes, there was a part of the Germans. But basically, these people have built it all. In that sense, I say, this diamond is polished. But where is this diamond uncut? We've almost destroyed one of those three pillars or whales, I mean the gate or wall thing. But when it comes to the first pillar, people don't want to live in a town where the streets are unrepaired. I mean the alleys of Narva, for example. I was just talking about Kohtla-Järve, where no house has been renovated and the stairwell last saw paint 30 years ago. It's the kind of thing that actually takes one face off. If only one of the three facets is polished, this diamond doesn't shine.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U13	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Very good waitress! We've had the honour of being your family friend for at least 30 years. We've had a really good time getting together at the country elders' reunions. As a former governor of the country, you always highlight the possibilities in Ida-Viru County, and especially you have prioritised oil shale products. Perhaps you would also give the Riigikogu an overview of what it is possible to produce from oil shale.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U15	I somehow feel that this conversation today has become kind of friendly and family, a little bit spiritual. Somehow, as a technical person, I feel like it's going to be a fair. But really, nostalgia comes in. At school, I studied with the sons of Väino Viilup (many people know him), twins, and Richard Jonas, director of the oil shale institute, also studied in our class. We went to the oil shale museum in the first class on a field trip. It was always made clear to us that everything about oil shale could be done. Have we proved that in more than 50 years? Quite a lot can be made of oil shale, money can be made, and money can buy anything. So you just have to know how to do it, you have to do it honestly, correctly and cleanly. Of course, oil shale can also harm the people. From this very remote, I remember, Andrus Ansip once said that mining oil shale will cause irreparable damage to the Estonian state and the people. I don't know what irreparable damage this is, but if a stupid person doesn't know how to take the oil shale out of the ground or does it unwittingly and processes the oil shale unwittingly, then, of course, we can do the damage, and we have unfortunately done it. But we've earned a lot from oil shale. What is made of oil shale? For example, one part of Nabi's Olympic medal may have been made of oil shale, because Piilmann gave a large part of the preparation money. Or at the time our four-boat was low, Laos was the main sponsor. But that money didn't go back there, did it? The Vähi also fixed the Pühajärve Centre for so-called mineral resources. He also bought the resort in Narva-Jõesuu, but he didn't fix it. The only entrepreneur who has used regional money seriously in the social sphere is Tõnis Kaasik, who fixed Saka Manor. Tamme Toomas built a spa hotel in Rakvere, nowhere eastward. I also bought half of the house in Tallinn for my Eesti Põlevkivi's final bill. For the savings, I did the second half, which was before her. I'm not pointing my finger at you. It's such a vital attitude.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U16	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U17	Thank you. I'm very happy to see you here, too, Lembit! But in order not to make this debate very vocal, I must say that I do not agree with much of what you have said, especially that it is as if the country is responsible again for all the problems in Ida-Virumaa. That's the impression I had, unfortunately. I don't think the state is responsible for all the troubles. If people's houses have not been repaired, the state is not responsible. If the streets are contaminated, the state is not responsible. If, for 20 years in a row, the same parties are elected who are corrupt to their roots, the state is not to blame. If people's own entrepreneurialism is extremely small, the state is not to blame. A lot of things still depend on attitude and mentality. In my opinion, the key to the development of Ida-Virumaa is a small enterprise, which helps to get rid of some country's dream or the risks of large companies. What do you think is the development of people's entrepreneurial mindset and the development of small businesses in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U18	Thank you. Small businesses have made good progress in Ida-Virumaa lately. When I was working in Eesti Põlevkivi, we gave them a boost, in the sense that we started buying services from them. That thing's started out there, even though they don't look like it. But the first part of your story was whether the country was guilty. I don't blame the country. I'm not a prosecutor, I'm an entrepreneur. Really, I don't blame you. Look, that first part of your question was just like my wife said two days ago. I told you what I was gonna say here, and then he said, "Hey, maybe they like that, 'cause why don't they do it then, okay, why don't they paint it in their stairwell?" As far as purity is concerned, Peipsi's edge is clear, isn't it? In fact, the streets are clean and grass mowed. The streets are unrepaired. The stairwells are clean, but they're unpainted. Why don't they do it? You see, 60% of the residents in a house with 60 apartments are retired, do not have child support, children are gone and either they do not want to receive this support from their children or children are unable to give it. The pensioner is currently unable to pay for the renovation of the apartment building. There, people receive a pension of EUR 300.400, and they are unable to pay. I say that the state, together with the municipality, must be able to do so, and it is necessary to write a program that needs to be used to help people in repairing apartment buildings. The apartment industry must be reorganized, it must be included in a separate programme. This people, given their age and their wallets, can't do it. This is where we have to help. There you go. Really, I don't blame you. I'm sorry it turned out this way. I was trying to present my vision. But what is the state responsible for? He's guilty that we haven't been able to create that window by interacting with our big neighbor. That's what we're responsible for as a country. We can talk about it or the other one or the third one, but if we get along with someone, we're guilty of it, too. If we deny our guilt or fail to find it, we will not be able to correct the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U19	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U20	Thank you. Dear former colleague Lembit! We're kind of soul mates, because I wasn't a October child, a pioneer, a comrade, or a member of the Communist Party. If, even as a child, I may have thought about pioneering, well, all kinds of temptations were, my mother said yes, go, but then your father is no longer your real father, but your father is Uncle Lenin. That was the case at the time. But I, too, have noticed that during these years, the right-wing governments have persecuted Eastern Virumaa as if it were, hindered its development and no investment has been made. At least that's the impression. Like you said, you haven't been able to make that window. What do you think of the attitude that we have seen for years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U21	Thank you, Marika! I'm not saying it's like the line on the right was plucking the area. If the Centre Party was in government, what funds for social and cultural buildings did the ministries foresee there? I used to watch it, I watched it with Valer, and it turned out that the only one who actually gave the money was Mailis Reps, who gave me $8 million to fix the school. Everything! What I am saying is that all political parties and a lot of people, on the other hand, have failed to invest in it. I gave an example of myself, didn't I? The way we've been acting. Of course, it's nice that this program is being run, but you haven't even noticed that there's no help in this. Yeah, I gave my rooftop money to Kohtla-Järve School, and there's been other things like this. Let's look at the budgets of these cities, local governments and compare Pärnu and Narva, look at the proportions of Tartu's budget or Rakvere's, look at the grant money, then we can see that in fact everyone has treated this area as Arto here said why they do so. But they're the ones who make these factories and stuff. They've been taken care of in the sense that the street is asphalted and the lawn mowed. They'd like to do all the things we've talked about, but a lot of people don't have the money. I do not blame any party specifically, one has done a little more and the other has done a little less, but I think that this attitude has been the same, perhaps the stories have been one way or the other, but unfortunately it has been so in action.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U22	Ivar Padar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U23	Thank you. Dear waitress, As far as I can remember, all the Estonian era of independence has been discussed and tried to do the best in Ida-Virumaa as a problem that needs to be discussed separately. I go to Ida-Virumaa a lot too. About five years ago, there was a meeting where the same topics were raised again, that Ida-Viru County had not received anything. We looked at this EAS table about how much money has come to Ida-Viru County with all kinds of projects, and we all realized that actually, quite a lot of money has been given to the development of small business. This money has come, but it doesn't seem to be enough. My question comes from that. When it comes to man-shaping, how happy can the education system, vocational education and Narva College now be? How good a helper has the education system, including vocational training, been to make people look bright and to be active in Narva business?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U24	The most necessary is an educated person. To that I say the country has done well here. As far as Narva College is concerned, but even more so with the College of Technical University, that they were once put into operation and survived, even though in the meantime they were vacuating their soul, especially the College of Technical University, has been a real and serious support. But now they're weak. 500 students in one school or another are few and these specialties have not gone along with time. So it's really money. However, financial things have not improved this environment. For example, a large amount of money has been provided from KIK to clean up the ash mountains of VKG. What has it done to this region and to these people? A person who doesn't know anything about these things will see that this mountain was unraveled, it was already encased, and it didn't turn out much. Of course, scientists found that the situation improved a little in terms of the environment, but at the moment when it was dusted and the mountain was torn open, much more was polluted there. For example, the recultivation or organization of ash mountains has given the people of the region nothing tangible. Maybe in the environment something changed for the better, but people didn't feel it. There's little to do with the little things in the area. After all, 70% of KIC's resources are actually the resources of Ida-Viru County; 70% of KIC's resources have come from there in recent years. Why did the Pomerants fight when they wanted to reduce the resource tax? That's not why I'm mad at you, you did your job as minister, that's where the money was needed. But the money was taken, and there was nothing left to do. There would be much more to do, because, understand, there will be damage and that 70% should not be given to KIC, that 70% should be given back there, that would be equal. What is below this equality is what has not been done. I mean, not equality, but justice, in the sense that if you're doing harm here, this is where you're making up for the damage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U25	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U26	Thank you, manager. Dear Lembit Kaljuvee! It is good to hear that you are a patriot of your home and that you are bound by both roots and souls in Ida-Viru County. As a result, the report was quite emotional. At the same time, you stressed in your speech that you are more a man of technology and a proponent of rational thinking. That's why I'm asking how much money Ida-Virumaa needs, because the money was here all the time. Secondly, I have a more philosophical question. It is known that regional development around the world is affected by a phenomenon such as human co-operation and unselfish leadership. How do you assess Ida-Virumaa from this point of view? So I have two questions: how much money is needed right so that all these problems can be solved, and the ability of people to work together and unselfishly lead people from the point of view of Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U27	Thank you. The very short answer to the first question is that money is always low. But speaking of numbers as a rational person, I can say that the 200 million in the next three years that have now gone through the government's papers are not enough. Given that 1.5 billion has been taken away from it over the next ten years, the amount that will be given there with a so-called 'direct aim' should also be at least 1.5 billion, because the infrastructure is lagging behind and lagging behind in the next ten years. I was talking about the issue of existence, but basically there should be a threat in the speech or in some of the answers. If we do not do so, if we do not give it to the social infrastructure there over the next two billion years, what will happen then? I can threaten you too. Ida-Viru County may be in the same situation as in Eastern Ukraine. That, too, is possible. That is the answer to the other side of your question whether there is cooperation. The people have worked very hard together. They're technical people, they built us a mine, repaired the plants, and repaired the chemical industry. We worked very well together, we work together. I believe that we will be able to work together even when it is necessary to provide a social sphere of 2 billion. Actually, we're not gonna give that money back. We're gonna give it back. There's a big difference. We give it back, we don't take it from anywhere else. We'll give the money that's earned there back there, that's $2 billion, and we'll do it in cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U28	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U29	Thank you very much. Dear Lembit Kaljuvee! I am extremely happy to see you here as a former colleague and also as a man hurting the heart over Ida-Virumaa. But let's talk about women. My soul, as a result of all these meetings, has Russian women in Ida-Viru County who are in a pretty bad state when we talk about their rights. The most marked example that I plucked out, and which still sends me, is that I heard from Narva women that they were getting the minimum wage and part of it in the envelope. In other words, what do you think we can do together for women in Ida-Viru County, what can we do to make them know not only our obligations but also our rights in the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U30	This is a very difficult and serious question. You started talking about the difficult situation of the minimum wage recipients. In fact, women who have been world class teachers in Sillamäe are also in a difficult situation. I told you kids with very good knowledge have come from that school. What can we do together? We simply need to develop a social environment in the region with them. No more can a member of the Riigikogu do than to develop this social environment, to channel money into this sector. But, in fact, what Mrs Padar said should also be done, I mean the issue of education. We can't get rid of this mentality and this behavior. A wise person is loyal; a wise person does not take an envelope or work under such conditions for such money. We cannot change this at all, but if we invest in education, in this social environment, this problem will disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U31	Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! The time allowed to answer the questions was over. The next waitress is Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U32	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I'm honored to be on this remote for the third day in a row, but the pleasure is on my side. Today's topic, the future of Ida-Viru County and its possible development measures, is very important. The future of Ida-Viru County is certainly an important national issue. Why am I here as Minister of Public Administration? Because regional policy is my responsibility. To begin with, I will give you a brief statistical overview of the current situation of Ida-Viru County. Ida-Virumaa is one of the fastest regions in Estonia with declining population numbers and its continuation is unfortunately foreseen for the near future as well. Ida-Viru County lost 9% of its population between 2002 and 2016. The county with the largest urban population in Estonia is particularly fast losing population in cities. Between the last two censuses in 2000-2011, Narva lost almost 15% of its population, Kohtla-Järve 22%, Sillamäe sixth, Kiviõli nearly a quarter and Püssi even more than a third. As this trend continues, the population of the county is projected to decrease by almost 15% by 2030 according to Statistics Estonia's forecasts. The demographic development perspective in the region is weakened by the country's lowest share of children and young people in the population, which will continue to shrink in the future. According to the last census, the number of children aged up to 14 in the county was 14%, and by 2040 it is projected to decrease to 10%. On the positive side, the four rural municipalities had a positive balance of migration between 2012 and 2015, but they were rural governments. However, the total balance of migration in the county as a whole is negative and it is negative in cities. The growth of county GDP has been evident since the economic crisis, but it has remained more modest than the average for the country. In 2015, GDP per capita in Ida-Virumaa was 62.8% of the national average. In absolute terms, GDP in Ida-Virumaa has increased by more than 4% in recent years, but the share of Ida-Virumaa in the total country's GDP has nevertheless fallen to 7%. Remember, this GDP comes from the big industry (electricity, oil production). If we were to reduce this to the average and take out the greater impact of large industries, it would certainly be much, much less, of GDP. The incomes of the people of Ida-Viru County have reached a rather average level compared to the counties, but the rate of income growth has been slower than the average in recent years. The high proportion of people living in relative poverty remains a considerable problem in Ida-Viru County. In 2015, according to Statistics Estonia, 30% of the inhabitants of Ida-Virumaa lived in relative poverty. This is not very exceptional, for example, in Põlvamaa, but still, this is the last end of this ranking. Relative poverty and the resulting poor quality of life are particularly acute problems in cities. The security of the living environment between rural areas is one of the poorest, with the highest number of crimes per 1000 inhabitants competing with Harjumaa. Ida-Viru County has the most unfavourable labour market pressure index in Estonia. Over the next ten years, as a result of age, the highest number of people of working age are leaving the labour market, as compared to the growth in new working age: six new people of working age for every 10 retirees in the next ten years. Entrepreneurship activity and its growth are one of the poorest in Estonia, which is also a peculiarity linked to the large industrial nature of the region. The rate of exclusion and unemployment is one of the highest in the labour market. Compared to counties, the incomes of residents are lower than average and their growth rate is slower. This is also an example of entrepreneurial activity. After all, we have measures taken through the EAS to support entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, which also use a lot of European Union funds, but the proportion of applications from Ida-Viru County is very low, with the number of applications being zero for some of them. In short, here is the point of thinking about how we can help enterprising people there so that they can apply for various grants. The growth in the number of exporting companies has been relatively rapid, but the total export volume has increased modestly compared to the rest of Estonia, while productivity is higher and even faster than in the rest of Estonia. In short, with relatively low numbers of people, there is increasing production, which means that productivity growth is quite present in Ida-Virumaa. This shows the potential that Lembit Kaljuvee was talking about here. But because of the shortage of labour resources and the problems of the living environment that make people leave this region, we cannot exploit this potential. I have met entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa, several times in a few months I have also met Lembit Kaljuvee, as well as the Riigikogu Ida-Virumaa Envoy Group. We have been discussing these problems for a long time. Specialists find it difficult to bring in and train on the ground because of the lack of modern vocational education and training that is particularly suitable for local entrepreneurs. Another serious issue is that social infrastructure has not been developed. Even when young people graduate from vocational education, they tend to leave the region. I must acknowledge all these entrepreneurs. A lot has been done by Tiit Vähi, who has really gone to several vocational schools, and so have other entrepreneurs. The vocational education system in Ida-Virumaa has recently undergone some major changes. The state, of course, has helped and modernised these vocational training institutions with its own resources, but the content has come very much from the proposal of entrepreneurs. So these things are improving. We cannot be satisfied with what is, but it is one of the positive things, thanks in many ways to local entrepreneurs and other active people who have contributed and tried to influence these things and developments. In order to diversify the economy of Ida-Virumaa, it is important to exploit the considerable tourism potential of the region. The rural tourism sector has grown considerably in recent years, with overnight accommodation increasing in 2010-2016. 43% in 2005. This is the fifth best figure among the counties, but once again I must stress that the potential is much greater. With various, perhaps a little, supportive measures, we would certainly be able to increase this growth. It is no secret that there are many overnight residents coming to Ida-Virumaa from Russia who spend their spare time there. This market is very large. According to the survey "Satisfaction of residents with local public services' carried out in 2014 by AS Saar Poll, the least satisfaction with roads and streets is from the counties of Ida-Virumaa. The previous speaker also spoke about this, this is the same infrastructure issue. The satisfaction with sports opportunities, adult education and access to public transport services is also well below average in Ida-Virumaa. The availability and quality of light traffic routes and sports facilities in Ida-Virumaa are considered to have improved most in recent years. I've been to these cities. There is often an impression that these local authorities would contribute little to Sillamäe, Kohtla-Järve or Narva. This is a lie. They have contributed a great deal, as much as they have resources. For example, go to Sillamäe and you will see what leisure and sports opportunities have been created there. This has been done with relatively few resources, largely through human enthusiasm. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! So much for statistics. I will continue with what has been done and what is being done to improve the quality of life, the economic environment and the business environment in Ida-Virumaa. The state plans to channel around EUR 200 million in investments to Ida-Virumaa in 2017-20. There has been talk about this here too. Most of these investments are financed from external resources, such as investments in primary health centres, industrial and transport infrastructure, state secondary schools and activities to implement LEADER and fisheries strategies. This year the government has decided to establish a study and training centre for Narva National Defence Academy in Ida-Virumaa. During the budget negotiations, it was added that eight swimming pools with swimming trails will be made, which will also be open to the inhabitants of Narva. It has been decided to open an Estonian language house in Narva to support Estonian language learning. The measures financed by external funds generally support investments and activities across Estonia in a uniform manner, which is why, if successfully applied, they help to keep the economic and living environment of Ida-Virumaa lagging behind the conditions of other Estonian regions to the present level, but this does not provide a sufficient degree of development to eliminate the backwardness. It is important to keep in mind that support measures are designed to meet the needs of Ida-Virumaa. Their conditions must certainly be reviewed and amended in the course of their implementation. Monitoring is particularly important for business measures. Perhaps it is necessary to find the conditions under which entrepreneurs and local authorities in Ida-Virumaa can participate in these programmes. Its impact is very important for the development of the region. Ida-Virumaa has achieved a much smaller share of business support than the number and share of the county's population in the economy would be expected. Several ministries also have special measures for Ida-Virumaa. The Ministry of Social Affairs, through the unemployment fund, provides support for additional labour market services and job creation through the European Globalisation Fund and the Employment Programme budget as a temporary measure in the period 2016-2018. This measure was and is intended to respond to the major redundancies that have taken place in recent years, it should help people who have lost their jobs in the region to work and reduce high regional unemployment. There has also been an increase of around 500 new jobs created by this measure over the last few years. The total package is EUR 7.7 million. It supports entrepreneurs who employ people. In many areas, higher wages are paid in Ida-Virumaa, e.g. in the field of internal security and education. For example, the share of Ida-Virumaa is larger than in other counties in the programme to strengthen the competitiveness of the region, mostly for municipalities. If we compare the volume of these requests, it will be 8 million euros higher. At the same time, the sustainable development of the urban areas of Ida-Viru will be supported in 2014‐2020. These are mainly measures designed to improve the living environment. The total amount of this money is EUR 29 million. The Ministry of Culture supports integration and cultural activities and the Virumaa Culture Programme. The budget for the following year envisages a number of investments, mostly through municipalities. The budget includes support for the construction of Kohtla-Järve sports complex, there are also smaller things, such as the Narva-Jõesuu lighthouse and Narva Vaba Lava. But these aren't very large sums of money. It is planned to move state institutions and state-paid employees outside Tallinn. The ministries have provided information that more than 120 additional state-paid jobs should come to Ida-Virumaa within three years. The Ministry of Justice is planning to create 60 new jobs. For example, the Ministry of Culture wants to take there the Integration Foundation, which will result in 22 new jobs in the region. Despite all these measures and the amounts for investment, it is clear that, when compared with the average in Estonia and the situation in other regions, as the previous speaker said, the development of Ida-Viru County is still not sufficiently prioritised. There are many problems that are unsolved due to the historical and major industrial heritage. Certainly not satisfied with the living environment of the cities of Ida-Virumaa. In November 2016, when the government coalition was formed, it was agreed that we would develop an Ida-Virumaa programme. I will mention three blocks that I have already spoken about here today. First of all, sectoral investments are one of the things that, according to the 'Ida-Viru County Action Plan 2015 to 2020', which has been adopted and is in force, still need to be reviewed in all areas in order to determine which priority can be given to Ida-Viru County. The second block is to increase the impact of ongoing measures and investments. I was talking about entrepreneurial measures which, unfortunately, yes, especially many applications from Ida-Viru County do not reach EAS, for example. Last Thursday, when I introduced this issue and the additional measures that could be taken in Ida-Virumaa, an agreement was reached on investments from the Structural Funds: we are looking at the structural instruments for this funding period and these investments to determine the possibility of further prioritising investments in different areas in Ida-Virumaa. I have put forward proposals on what additional supporting measures could be taken. These proposals have not been taken from the ceiling by officials or I in the office. We collected proposals from local governments, entrepreneurs, also state institutions located in the region, but also from their central offices in Tallinn. We asked what activities would be those that do not duplicate current measures and actions, but would have a relatively large effect on solving these problems. There are two directions, as it has been today. The first is the business and economic environment and the measures by which we can improve it. The second is the living environment. I have based these proposals on the amounts that can be taken into account next year and also in subsequent years. I can also answer Lembit Rockvee. Ida-Virumaa constantly raises the issue that the state of Estonia earns more than 70% of both resource fees and pollution charges from Ida-Virumaa, if you say so. The person in Ida-Virumaa really considers this unfair, because the money comes back through very large projects, we know that this money comes with the support of the European Union and other partners when we talk about a waste dump in Sillamäe or about improving the environment of the mines that have already been exhausted, but these are few large objects that do not improve the entire living environment in Ida-Virumaa as a whole. The proposal is certainly to come back to permanent funding in the course of the discussion of the country's budgetary strategy in the spring and to review the resource fee. My proposal is to find some form of continuing financing in the resource charge (this is the money that will not be received by KIC as a pollution charge, but will be received by the state budget, in the revenue of the state). These additional measures could be in the order of EUR 10 million per year and could come in most of the money coming from the resource fee. The press has said that proposals have been made to improve the business environment to provide investment support to small and medium-sized enterprises. There are many industrial parks in Ida-Virumaa and there are many industrial parks in the construction process, but we do not find entrepreneurs there, because this should be done either by a smaller, medium or larger investment, but companies are not able to do so. If we do not support them in this, it will be difficult for them to do so. The proposal to think through a young specialist scholarship has already come out in public. The initial proposal is to pay up to EUR 300 over a period of three years to all young professionals who have a diploma from a vocational school, a university of applied sciences or a university of higher education and who start working in Ida-Virumaa. Housing needs to be addressed in order to improve the living environment. Cooperation with the Minister for Enterprise is important here. I hope that additional measures will be found to improve the living environment there. I've run out of time for my report, but I hope I can give you more detailed information in the course of answering questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U33	Questions for the Minister of Public Administration. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U34	Thank you! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The potential of Ida-Viru County has been well spoken here. It is true that Ida-Virumaa is one of the few places in Estonia where there are good opportunities for industrial development. The potential there is exactly inclined towards industry. The people who live there are also used to working in industry, where it has generations of traditions. True, you have brought out a poor demographic situation here, but on the other hand, it is known that unemployment is also relatively high, so that the same industrial workers are actually idle. On the one hand, there is potential, as if there should be industrial workers. We are talking a lot about public investment and public support here, but there is actually private investment. They should find its potential. What is the reason that private and foreign investment in particular has not come there enough to exploit this potential? I mean, there's a job there. What do you think that could be for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U35	Thank you for your question. I'm sure that's a very constructive question. When we considered these additional measures, the proposal to target this aid for investment in small and medium-sized enterprises was, in fact, one of the most important targets. This is the tradition, but this measure must certainly help to diversify the business environment so that there are more different businesses where people are employed. Unemployment is higher and there is no very special situation in this area compared to other regions, however, how to say it, among the slightly more mature people, who will soon reach retirement age. The problem is there aren't enough younger people. If they also acquire a specialty in the area by graduating from vocational school, they often tend to leave. There are already several other reasons for this: the same living environment, maybe they will not find the right work for which they have been prepared. Historically, the VET system has also perhaps not been best targeted at the jobs that are in Ida-Viru County, but I have already made an example of the fact that this situation has improved considerably, thanks in many ways to those entrepreneurs who have taken a serious part in the development of the VET system. This can be seen as a positive example. Often, we still have no way of linking entrepreneurs to the vocational education system in another region of Estonia, in some places it goes better, in others it goes worse. In Ida-Virumaa, this is really about good and positive development. But there's nothing to do, probably the young specialist leaves most of all because of the living environment there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U36	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U37	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister! Actually, I was gonna ask Lembit Rockvee, but I'm gonna ask you now. There is certainly a lack of money, as Lembit Kaljuvee pointed out, and as you said, it is lacking in programmes and projects, but I would say that all of Estonia's regional policy is relatively moneyless. In my opinion, there is also a lack of one other thing - psychology and the right attitudes - just outside of Ida-Viru County. The question is how to make Estonians and the rest of Estonia understand that Ida-Virumaa is also Estonia and these are Estonian people. Is that even possible, and precisely by means of real things, not so that we force taxi drivers in Narva to learn Estonian, even though they may never have Estonian customers there? There were no real substantive discussions about moving to Narva, the National Defence Academy. Is this possible and how to change these attitudes in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U38	Thank you for your question. I guess it's always the hardest thing to change attitudes. But I think it's possible with positive examples that actually exist every day in Ida-Viru County, despite the state I described. The main resource there is these people, whether in Estonian or in Russian, those who create this environment and jobs, and these people continue there. We need to support them a little bit, then this faster development would certainly be possible there. As for your comment on regional policy, there has been one major problem that I have discussed with the Minister of Enterprise when Ida-Virumaa, as well as going around Estonia in general. In rural areas, it is very difficult, if not impossible, for an undertaking to obtain a bank loan for an investment in a production building and equipment. Let me give you an example. Suppose I'm an entrepreneur in Valga and I need a production building. I have found an entrepreneur for whom I have spoken, and I know that it will cost me EUR 500000. I would go towards Latvia in search of the market, which means that there is a market. I'm going to the bank, it says they're going to appreciate the value of this potential property when it's built, and then the real estate evaluator says that this value is 250,000 euros, or only half of what I put in it is its market value. This is a problem, and it is the biggest problem in rural areas across Estonia. There are certain KredEx measures, but they are targeted, they are designed to build certain infrastructure elements (electricity and water routes, roads) but there is no measure for a specific production investment or equipment. This should not be purely financial support; there may also be another financial instrument, such as a guarantee. Basically, the KredEx instrument exists, but it needs to be developed and expanded somehow. The Minister for Enterprise said that he is aware of this, and we certainly want to talk about it again in the near future. As regards, for example, Ida-Virumaa and what has already been discussed here, the reconstruction of apartment buildings is financed through KredEx, but there is only one such project in Ida-Virumaa, only one. Lembit spoke of these reasons, I don't want to repeat them. However, consulting both local authorities and housing associations on this subject, and perhaps certain favourable conditions for the region through the involvement of local authorities, are certainly necessary. We have come up with one proposal that could be among these additional measures. There's really no way to get that help right now. In many areas of Ida-Virumaa, three or four families live in the apartment building. We must support the municipality so that these people can be relocated and renovated. I hope that this can also be supported by the programme of rental homes, which will be clarified by the Minister for Enterprise. Some houses that are uninhabitable just have to be demolished, there's nothing to do. The local government hasn't had that ability and money, and it's upstairs. The Ministry of Finance currently manages a hundred apartments all over Estonia, most of them are in Ida-Virumaa. It's a bit of a funny situation. But the wish would be for the municipality to be able to deal with it itself. We have to come and help the local government. To be honest, it is very funny to deal with an apartment in Kohtla-Järve from Tallinn, which the owner has abandoned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U39	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U40	Thank you. Dear Minister, Lembit Kaljuvee spoke very nicely here about the resources of Ida-Virumaa, which are people, location and natural resources. I also draw regional political parallels with South-East Estonia, where the human resource and location are equally good, and from its natural resource I highlight pure nature. By drawing parallels, I recall your words that 30% of people in Ida-Viru County live in relative poverty, as well as in Põlva County. When the administrative reform can be completed across Estonia, new municipalities will be formed. South-East Estonia also has its own South-East-Estonia programme, which is completely toothless, I don't even know who does it. I've been to a meeting where they just sat down and stated the facts, but there's no financial cover there. What is the future of the South-East Estonia programme and will there be any financial support in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U41	Thank you! A very constructive and topical question. Speaking of the regional or regional action plans and the indicators that have assessed these regions and which I read about Ida-Virumaa, it has to be said that almost the same can be said about South-East Estonia. There is an Ida-Viru County Action Plan and there is a South-East-Estonia Action Plan. Can we find a program for Southeast Estonia? As Minister responsible for regional policy, I do believe that these are the two regions that we must help to catch up with. I have also said that everything begins with the business environment and jobs. I have just described a problem that has become very clear to me right there in Southeast Estonia. There are entrepreneurs in front of whom take off their hats, some of them are heroes. It would be much easier for him to come to Harjumaa, to set up this production company here, and its market value would be greater than the amount he puts in it, but if he puts it up in Valga, that's not the case. Why does he have to do it there, right? There are more and more and more of these bottlenecks. We've made them clear and we're looking for solutions. So also South-East Estonia's entrepreneurship and possibly rural entrepreneurship in general need some support. Environment, I think, in South-East Estonia there are not as many problems as in Ida-Virumaa. The environment is cleaner there in any case, but there are rather these things (it starts all over again): vocational education, entrepreneurship, jobs. Maintaining and supporting this whole system, I think, is a key issue. That's what we're thinking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U42	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U43	Good manager! Dear Minister, The joint article of electoral advisors Kersten Kattai, Georg Sootla and Sulev in Delfi mentions the GDP per capita of the Republic of Estonia in 2015. These figures aren't very happy. The highest figure is EUR 22263 per capita in Harjumaa, the smallest in Põlva County is EUR 6566. In Ida-Virumaa, this figure is 9673 euros per capita, less than 2.2 times in Harjumaa. You claimed earlier that the government would allocate 200 million to Ida-Viru County. Please tell me what are the possibilities of allocating funds there in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U44	Thank you for your question. I have described what these instruments are and whether and how much has been prioritised in the distribution of these sectoral funds in Ida-Virumaa. After all, this 200 million concerns investments by different ministries, investments in concrete, asphalt and also in man, all the investments combined. When we begin to compare, as I said, Ida-Viru County does not seem to stand out in this respect in particular. It is difficult to compare regions because there is no precise database. In different areas, it is more or less averaged or slightly below average. For years, it has been said that we will make this region a priority because this region is important to Estonia in terms of security, internal security or social integration. We have said this, but we have not specifically highlighted him in his priorities. As far as GDP is concerned, I once said that in many ways it is relatively large, the Estonian average, because there are large production companies that give a relatively large number of inhabitants. It produces electricity and oil and extractes oil shale, all of which brings together its GDP, but that does not mean that the average gross output of business is above average there; it is certainly not. As I said, these are sectoral investments and they need to be done anyway. We are also trying to find a way to make additional investments in the Structural Funds, plus those additional measures that we have thought through. These sums may seem small. As Lembit said, we owe 1.5 billion or 2 billion to Ida-Viru County. I would be more modest about these amounts, but it is clear that we accept the resource charge and the pollution charge from Ida-Virumaa beautifully, but the consequences of this production will be borne by Ida-Virumaa. We have not dealt enough with these consequences, I mean the living environment, the environment and the social environment of people, education, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U45	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have such a simple question for you. As a minister, you have the opportunity to manage processes, regional development and everything that is happening, not only in Ida-Virumaa, but throughout Estonia. If you think a little bit forward in time, perhaps a year, or whatever you take for this period, what are the two things about Ida-Virumaa that you would like to say, look, friends, men and women, that's what I took for my mission and I did it? Can you say that? I am not talking about a political declaration that much, say it as a person.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U47	Thank you for your question. First of all, one such thing throughout Estonia, if we are not just talking about Ida-Virumaa, is the income base of local governments. This is a regional policy measure by which we will raise a little more money into the wallet of the estate. I think this is the kind of measure that allows the municipality to decide on the ground how to make the living environment better enough. Well, it's always hard enough to do, but at least more can be improved. It works everywhere, both in Ida-Virumaa and South-East Estonia. This decision has been made by this government. I'm sure I'll remember that because there was a lot of work to do, but it's done. As far as Ida-Viru County is concerned, we have created opportunities with investments on the one hand. There are industrial parks with basic infrastructure, routes, roads and everything so that the company can come there. But he's not coming there right now because of a certain barrier. He doesn't get enough bank loans and he can't make that first investment. If we could support it with a variety of financial instruments so that these jobs would be there, then this could certainly be done in the coming years. Still, I'm talking about a young specialist scholarship. I don't know any other way to leave a young person there in Ida-Virumaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U48	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U49	Thank you very much. Minister of State Administration Jaak Aab! I'm interested in human rights in Ida-Viru County. Indeed, economic independence is a human right. Women's wages in Ida-Viru County are worse off. What do you think the state, as a minister, can do to reduce the gender pay gap in Ida-Virumaa? The second question: what do you think could be done to improve the legal awareness of Russian-speaking women?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U50	Thank you for your question. This is certainly an appropriate and topical issue. From this angle, I'm not prepared for today's performance. I'm sure it should be monitored. When we talk about areas, it is more of a matter of the Minister of Social Affairs. But since I'm responsible for this region too, I'm gonna put it behind me. Maybe it's worth thinking about. I don't know. Perhaps this problem is deeper and bigger in Ida-Virumaa than in other regions, but it is not just the problem of Ida-Virumaa. For the Russian-speaking population, yes, we have tried to offer all kinds of measures. But if we, how can we say, do not make this environment more understandable to humans... There are, after all, a number of measures that the state is trying to be more present here, and I am thinking of education and language issues. But how to say, a person needs to see that somehow it benefits him, that he gets a better job, or that he gets a better integration. Additional measures are, of course, also intended to ensure that a more enterprising person, also a Russian-speaking person, would be better off receiving these benefits. It's in here. But I do owe you an answer about these Russian-speaking women. I don't have the data, but I should be able to compare the data a little bit so there's a database. I'm not questioning this problem, probably. This certainly also applies to the Tax and Customs Board under the administration of the Ministry of Finance. But let's ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U51	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your review of the measures planned was quite detailed, but I will ask you a little backwards. Obviously, sectoral fragmentation also stands out when you look at the activities that have been carried out in Ida-Virumaa. Is and to what extent a IT and technological and innovative side has been negotiated with the Ministry of Education and Research for the future? What are the central government's plans for innovation and technological development, building on the potential available in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U53	Thank you for your question. It's a topical question again. This topic was also mentioned in the study when we were talking about additional measures. I have not had much time to go into the details when dealing with the Minister of Education and Research or with the Minister of Enterprise. The representatives of these ministries are in the working group where we are going to work out the details. One part of the money should go specifically to implementing new technologies and innovation in Ida-Virumaa. A specific scheme needs to be negotiated whether we support entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial people in implementing new technologies and innovation through EAS. But the goal is again to diversify the business environment that is in Ida-Virumaa. After all, in the long term, we all realise that the oil shale industry will not last forever, and if we do not find other forms of business and production there, also high-tech and innovative, we will not solve these problems. So you have to look at it in the long term. That's one suggestion, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U54	Anneli Ott, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U55	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. I ask about the thousands of jobs the government plans to take out of Tallinn. There have been two versions: one is that a thousand jobs in Ida-Virumaa, and the other is that a thousand jobs across Estonia. In your report, you said it would take three years. Perhaps you will be a little more specific about the moment when this three-year period will take effect, and are there any more concrete plans not only for Ida-Viru County but for Estonia as a whole? It would also be very interesting to hear a few comments about South-East Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U56	Thank you! Again, a very topical question. I went to the office with this question at the beginning of September and it is my duty to go to the office at the end of October or at the beginning of November to give a review. The creation of state-paid jobs in the rural area and, to a certain extent, the compensation of jobs lost there is one of the priorities of the state reform of this government coalition. I have said that the government has decided that this thousand jobs will be a certain identification number by the end of 2019. This process is going on all the time, after all, the ministries and the authorities are taking decisions. Many have already made some decisions and people are moving to rural areas, or rather it is that jobs are created and people are found on the ground. There are also some agencies that have been decided on and which have also gone through the press. There's been talk about the private forest center. It's a ministerial decree. The Minister of Enterprise has decided on a certain part of EAS. They're talking about the geology service. These are the bodies for which a specific decision has been taken. In very many areas, speaking of modern technologies, this is a good tendency to talk about the fact that, when rural governments cease to operate, the area of state agencies will be left over in the county centres. One of the things that I am happy to be surprised about is that all ministries have recently come up more and more with a proposal that there should be room for an open office. We have an increasing number of remote workers who live in the area and do long-distance work. I think it is a very good trend that people are not hired in Tallinn, but hired in Võru, Paide or Põlva. The various institutions in the social field, the environmental sector, the rural ministry, the local authorities, employ people on the ground. These people sometimes need to go to the office and do their thing, but they work on the teleworking principle. When I thought at first that we had to take some places into consideration in the spatial solution, now they say that there should be at least ten such jobs in each county. So I owe you an answer. The problem is that ministries and agencies have sent feedback so that they can get jobs to Tartu. Of course, Tartu is the capital of South Estonia; there is a university, a science department and all of it, certain institutions are involved and that would be the most logical place. However, I think that ambition should still be that every county centre, as we have said, should have at least 30 to 50 jobs. The deadline is 2019. That's where we're headed. We collect information, there are successive proposals from ministries. But there are constant corrections to be made. We'll discuss it in early November. There are different problems. Initially, it has been decided that all ministries and agencies must organise it within their own budget. But you have to pay the redundancy money, you have to decorate the premises and buy the equipment in the county centre or rural area. The RKAS has certain tools for this, but I'd say there are few. We need to come back to this issue in the office so that this process goes smoothly. It is a good thing that other ministers have started to think along on this issue. Right now, everyone has a lot to do, you know that. There will be a presidency, several reforms are under way, it will be seriously urgent, but there will also be sectoral ministers thinking along and negotiating matters in their area of administration. We hope that these decisions will now come in a row.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U57	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U58	Thank you, good waitress, for this presentation. In your presentation you indicated that the activity of entrepreneurship in Ida-Virumaa is significantly lower than in the rest of Estonia. That's true, but that's what the question is. Has research been carried out, which could be the reason for this, and has the government thought, either through EAS or in any other way, of creating entrepreneurial measures designed specifically for Ida-Virumaa that take into account the needs of the region, the industrial background and all that to help it grow?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U59	Thank you for your question. As I have already pointed out, that is a problem. I have talked about this with the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, and it has also sounded as one of the proposals in the Cabinet that the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology should review the current entrepreneurship measures. What are these obstacles? Some things are known. It is clear that there are many Russian-speaking entrepreneurs in Ida-Virumaa. Perhaps this person speaks Estonian at a daily level, but he is unable to make an application to receive support for the development of his own business. I know that this has been done by good will in the Ida-Viru Enterprise Centre, for example, with both Russian-language and Estonian-language tutoring, but I need to see what the help is needed here. Specific proposals also include training and advice, these are concrete proposals for the money that I have made, that should be through the EAS. But now it should be clear what this particular thing is that we can support there. We have a development institution there, where municipalities and entrepreneurs are involved. They can always tell us what this concrete action is to help bring entrepreneurial people to finance and programmes. Yeah, that's a serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U60	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U61	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Lääne-Virumaa and Ida-Virumaa were once an electoral district in the Riigikogu elections, but then, out of fear that one ogre would take ugly many votes, this district was divided into two. Now the situation is that Lääne-Virumaa is very small, now with five mandates, but if the population continues to be concentrated in Tallinn and Harjumaa, then next time it may have four mandates. Does the Government of the Republic have any ideas on how to harmonise the circles? Do these thoughts include the plan to reunite East and West Viru County? Could this happen before the next Riigikogu elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U62	Thank you for your question. I know coalition parties have considered these issues. I myself have not been part of this task force. There has also been a working group that has looked at the problems of the next elections all over Estonia. You yourself described these problems here. But in more detail, I cannot say whether there has been a suggestion that Virumaa should be reunited, which maybe in terms of balance would not be the best either. We must look at all Estonia and all electoral districts. I have not heard a specific proposal in the government, I know that this is a subject that is being discussed. Is this decision coming? I cannot say because there is not much time until the next Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U63	Thank you, Minister. The time for answering questions is over. The third rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, member of the Central Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U64	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm trying to tell you something that hasn't been mentioned here, and I'm also trying to find the reason why people keep talking about Ida-Viru County. In fact, if we look at all kinds of economic indicators, there are at least four, but in some areas there are five counties that are behind Ida-Viru County. These include the southern counties Valga and Põlva and Jõgeva in Central Estonia. However, people usually talk about Ida-Virumaa, which has been done as long as I remember myself in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, since 1999. These conversations are still repeated and repeated. When one waitress, Lembit Kaljuvee, had left this remote control, we talked in the hallway about how many years it could all go on like this. I think in 25 years' time, too, if other people are sitting in this hall, they are still discussing the same issue in Ida-Virumaa. What's the matter? I'm actually trying to show you how the moods have changed. In this hall we had to talk about the economic situation in Ida-Virumaa, but there was also the word 'loyalty', again and again. Still, there were questions that included the subtext of how to change them there in Ida-Virumaa. Once a sociologist Sergei Gorohhov lived in Narva. He hasn't been with us for ten years, but he went to history by doing very detailed research every year in Narva since 1989. Within 20 years, some questions were repeated. They were asked 20 times, and now it is possible to see what dynamics have been. For the first time he did this study in 1989 and then there was this sentence: 'Infringing the independence of the Republic of Estonia by the Soviet Union in 1940. " Man could choose whether it was or was not, and there was some vague answer. I repeat, it was 1989. Then there was the Communist Party of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Estonia, the media worked at the time, the KGB was present. Then such forms were received very keenly. Nevertheless, in 1989, 49% of respondents in Narva indicated that independence was violated. This means that in 1989 49% of the inhabitants of Narva were completely loyal. An vague response was given by 21%. I'd put 21% of them on that 49% tip. Why? At that time, as I have already noted, life did not show that the Soviet Union would soon fall apart and that people had something to fear. So at least 70% of the people in this hall are called loyal to the Republic of Estonia. I'm not gonna explain every year. We're gonna jump ten years to 1999. The Republic of Estonia, Laar and Vahtre are already active and have written their history books, there is a different program in the school, history is interpreted absolutely differently, and Gorohhov is doing another survey. The question of how you assess whether there was a breach of independence by the Soviet Union was answered by 29%. In 1989 the figure had been 49%, and now the figure had almost halved. Uncertain answers were 58%. I would remind you that exactly as I assessed the impact of the KGB and the Estonian Communist Party, etc., the situation must be assessed in 1999 on the contrary. People were already thinking that there was a whole other propaganda, that there were other authorities with a completely different focus, including the defense police. I wouldn't add that to 29%. I'd say loyalty had fallen more than twice. Were people wiser in that time and learned history? No. It was a reaction to what they saw in their lives. They saw an attitude toward themselves. If, ten years before that, Estonia was said to be a small but highly disciplined and civilized country, they now saw that if someone was sold, they would be sold, just as Kreenholm was sold, where 13,000 people had worked, but where only 2500 people were employed in 1999. 10,000 people in a city where 70,000 people live, can you imagine that? was out of work. At that time, no steps were taken to improve their situation, either to retrain or to support them in any way. Let's move on, then I'll wrap it up. In 2008, Gorohhov, unfortunately, carried out his last study. At that time, only 19% of those questioned responded to the breach of independence. Thus, 1989 49%, 1999 29%, 2008 19%. Man doesn't appreciate a historical event, his knowledge doesn't change, all the more so that they could only change in a different direction. But loyalty fell 3.5 times in that time. It's a direct response to the way people treat you. Just this, nothing else. When I read in Facebook that one of the Estonians living in Narva compares this city to Eastern Ukraine, I understand that it is right in terms of attitude. The civil war that is going on in Ukraine started because, let's say, the Kievs, people from western Ukraine were very arrogant about Eastern Ukraine, even though they understood what industry there was and that the people there were not very different from them. This attitude has always been that some people who came from outside were completely surprised in Narva and did not understand what was happening. I'll give you an example. I haven't brought it in this composition yet. A new investor, a very large investor who came to Narva, organized a horse race. A total of 200 horses came from all over Europe. Fantasticly beautiful, this event took place in Narva Castle, everyone was in a good mood, everyone realized it worked out, already 5,000 people had been in that courtyard. But Jaanika was nervous and nervous, looking at the clock and the gates. We said stop, everything's beautiful, even the weather, it's okay. He said he couldn't, he still has to do the interview. 'To who? '''For Estonian Television. " Everyone around began to laugh. Why? Because we know that if something bad happens in Narva, then ETV correspondent will be instantly present. -Momenally! -Momenally! But if something nice happens... Andres, I know it's like this, and it's been like this for years. When a company is opened, when something important and beautiful is happening, it doesn't give a damn about the official media. This may result, for example, in a case that is also very funny. I must have been chairman of the council for seven or eight years. After work, I went to a cafe. There in Inger, businessmen met at the time, they had their own club. It made sense to stop by, you saw the whole town. I made sure the men were sitting and moaning. I said, why are they having so much fun? 'But an official from Tartu went to check how we invested European money. " They had made this hotel into a conference room. What was fun about it? I'll explain. They sat and waited for this official in a restaurant under the hotel with a glass wall. It was 11 o'clock. The lady should have been there. Then the phone rang, and the lady was happy to see if anyone could meet her. Yes, of course, Narva is a huge city, when you come from Tartu, you'll get lost momentarily because you're not used to living in such a big city, that's clear. 'Tell me where you are, we're coming for you. What do you see in your car now? " He said, " You, I see you. I'll be right across from you. " There's a parking lot 20 meters away. The men were surprised, but if you have to meet them, you have to go. They got up, went out, and brought him to the hotel. No one understood. Perhaps there are customs in Tartu that when an official arrives, the receiving party has to go to the car and deliver the person, maybe that's the way things are going, we don't know. The evening, when this official had looked over the conference room, had a tour of the gallery, had been visited in the fortress, had been shown promenade, etc., he explained it. He had been sure that Narva was such a criminal city that as soon as you got out of the car, you'd be stolen or killed. At best, something scarier could happen. Where does that come from? I see Estonian tourist buses in Narva. I live in the Dark Garden. I always see people who come out of the bus go to the scene and see our fantastic shores. It's so beautiful, there's such a view. I see people are completely disappointed. They knew something else, Narva should have looked different somehow. How can we change that understanding? How do you change that? And that condescending attitude! I went to the National Defence Academy in the spring. There were debates on whether or not to take the National Defence Academy to Narva. Seven or eight people took part in the conversation round, one of whom supported the transfer. Even though I had been there at the Home Office's invitation, I wasn't given a place there. There were some sentences like this, and that's what the director of one of the College of the National Defence Academy said, that if you need new jobs in Narva, build a new prison there, it corresponds to the situation that is there, but this situation will not change if the National Defence Academy comes there. At the end of the day, I took the microphone and said everything I thought about them. But this attitude is even cultivated at the National Defence Academy, and people agreed to it. Not a new high school, a new prison! As long as that attitude doesn't change, nothing really changes. People keep talking about Narva running out, Narva running out. I picked up the data from Statistics and ran it through. Do you know how many Estonian cities have grown since 1990? It's not two, it's one. One, Marko, one. The population of all other cities has decreased. Do you know what this city is, the population of which has grown? Some in this hall might think that Tallinn. Andres knows because Andres knows everything. This is Maardu, the only city in Estonia whose population has increased since 1990, everyone else has lost its inhabitants. But when it is said that there is a crisis, no one cares that the population of Tartu has fallen just as many percent as Narva's 20%, no one cares that the population of Tapa has decreased by 48%. Everyone's always talking about how Ida-Viru County is, for some reason, so peculiar, it runs out. I started by talking to Lembit Rockvee in this hallway. We really have been thinking about what we could do in our neighborhood. I have to say that all the new county elders who have come to me have seen at least four in recent years have started by promising to change the attitude of the rest of Estonia towards Ida-Viru County. Well, Valeri, when the new man comes, he's gonna say he's gonna do it. But in about a year, when you ask him what you changed, how many percent of that promise you kept, it turns out there hasn't been any change. That's practically impossible. That is the task: to change the attitude. Can we do that? In 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, the city funded such a programme that we simply bought news time from different channels and made reports about the good things that are happening in our city: whether a cultural event, a new company is opening up or a building has been renovated. But we gave it up. To my people in Narva, I'm telling you, we just need to evolve in such a way that anyone who comes here makes big eyes and gets jealous. But it'll take time, it'll take another quarter century. The question is, over and over again, that if you do not like the attitude of another person or institution (if it is a legal person), understand: it is only because you do not have a dialogue. What a long story the development of the education system has been and how much debate has been about it. But in addition to this, the opinion of teachers and local governments has hardly been asked, it has been almost zero. Well, it's been asked, but always be sure to draw the right conclusion, because you don't have much choice, struggle as you like. Finally, I will say the most precise thing that concerns Ida-Virumaa. We are talking about this crisis that is. Today, for example, Narva has taken a course that has been smeared over the years so that one upper secondary school should be left in the city. A city with 59000 inhabitants must be left with one state secondary school. If you think that there is a crisis situation now in Ida-Virumaa and specifically in Narva, then ten years after it is possible to receive education in a city only in the national language, there is no exception, this situation, which is now a dream. But this process is happening, nobody wants to take into account the local specificity. What do you do with it? It's mostly the media, as I said. Andres, who didn't shake his head, I'll give you a thousand examples later. The most beautiful example is, of course, how the Knight's Negro, the KGB agent were made during the presidential election, and what they didn't put into his head, did they? Only in Delfi, I counted, there were 180 negative articles on the Knight at the time. I don't have much love for either the Knight or Ilves, but there was only one critical material about Ilves. Just one. The exact same scheme applies to Ida-Viru County. How to do something about it, that's what we need to think about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U65	Kersti Sarapuu opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We, Mikhail, know you as the native Eastern Virumaa and Narva. We can see that the city of Narva is really a matter of heart to you. But please tell me what this concrete and very strong step should be taken to boost the economic development of Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U67	Thank you. I'm not a rookie and I'm not an Eastern virumaan either. I was born in Tartu, I'm a Tartian. Yeah. Every time I use the word 'potula', I have to think about what my grandmother called it, whether she said 'potato' or 'cartula'. He called it wrong. What would give Ida-Viru County this impetus? In my opinion, these options are currently out of the question. It would be most effective to use this border: transit, logistical warehouses, tourism, etc. I'm telling you, Kersti, there's a need to improve relations with our eastern neighbor. We have two huge transit warehouses built in the industrial area that we were talking about here, and I think Jaak was talking about it, which are now empty. We had 37 of the land that could have come to 37 companies, booked more than 30, but then all these sanctions and all the other crap, from which our agriculture lost enormously, lost a huge amount of transit. One day, it will be calculated how much the Estonian economy lost. But we just lost all the opportunities for development, because as far as everything else is concerned, we have the same conditions as the rest of Estonia. Whether some entrepreneurship develops in Võru, Valga or Narva, in that sense we are no different, we have the same conditions. So when it comes to the European Union, the most important thing is to have good economic cooperation with the neighbour. You got it. If it doesn't exist, all these advantages will disappear, all these great opportunities. They don't exist at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U68	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U69	Good President! Good waitress, penguin! I like the thinking of a good colleague, Andres Ammas. But I'd go even further, I'd go further in substance. When the Estonian state was born, Virumaa was one, it was also fixed in the birth document. Today, Virumaa is very diverse in terms of the development of Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa, population, language and everything else. I ask you who you were born outside this area, but you have been on the Narva Council for a very long time and have done Estonia's business in this hall. You're Russian, but you're an Estonian philologist. Will there ever be a single Virumaa, I mean, essentially, not administratively?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U70	Thank you. It must be possible. I would support this idea to unite two Virumaa, Ida-Virumaa and Lääne-Virumaa into one. It would affect the problem I was talking about, the attitude problem. I'm not 100 percent sure, but I think it would. When Virumaa was split in two before the 2003 elections, it was for a clear political reason: it was intended to deprive Savisaar of a large vote. He had to choose if he was going to Ida-Viru County or Lääne-Viru County. Finally, this division did not help absolutely, because he simply went to apply to Lasnamäe in Tallinn. And that was it. But Virumaa split in half and the people didn't understand it. People did not understand that this was done for political reasons in order to reduce the votes in Savisaare. People figured it out that now the natives want to break up with us so they can't be with us. Every political step you take leaves a very big and deep mark. Maybe it's because these exciting things affect your whole life. For example, already in 1999, believe it or not, there was talk of administrative reform. The then Minister of the Interior came from the Estonian Centre Party faction, that was Tarmo Loodus. He hung a map on the wall and said that his first offer was that, that and that. I looked at the map and I didn't understand anything. What does that red ring around Narva City mean? He just didn't know who I was. If you listen to me, you can't think I'm a fool. I don't know, but he explained in a heartfelt way that Narva will be excluded from this reform, that Narva will remain separate and at all, in 20 years' time it will be a settlement of energetics and pensioners, that there will be 30,000 to 35,000 inhabitants, and no more, it will be located in such a place and the people will be disloyal there. That's how he saw the reform. And that will be remembered. When people talk about these things and when these things happen... I recall the previous President, who called Russian, Pushkin and Tolstoy as the language of occupation, or a member of the Riigikogu who proposed not to support Ida-Viru County at all on any issue, even in the case of HIV epidemics. What's it look like? People see that attitude, and it cuts off all developmental pathways. So I think that this reunion of West and East Viru County could be positive if it was carried out correctly. All the more so because now there is no competition for the mayor, right, and that does not create political problems. That could be done, of course. The single virumaa must be restored, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U71	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U72	Thank you, good manager. Good speaker! How complicated are you to assess the drug problem in Ida-Virumaa and how would it make all the sense to solve it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U73	Thank you. You see, we're talking about one of these things again, in this case, the drug problem, but I'm also very often asked about crime. Then I will take out statistics and show people that, for example, there are many more crimes per 100000 people in Tallinn than there are in Ida-Virumaa. Speaking of drug addiction, I can say that two years ago there was a survey across Europe. I don't know if you're aware of this or not, but it's possible to determine the level of drug use if you just take sewage and do an analysis of it. This was done throughout Europe in all capitals. Only Kiev remained worse than Tallinn. I mean, we have this problem all over the country, sometimes you just don't understand it. This exchange was once initiated that the southern border customs officials go to the eastern border and vice versa, exchanging experiences, serving once in a place and once in another place. That kind of thing is always useful. When Ida-Viru County policemen came to South Estonia, they realized that there are enough drugs there, the locals just don't know what to look at. If the drugs aren't such that a person is already falling down, but he's just taken something for fun, then the one who knows what to look at understands that he's drugged, but the locals just didn't understand. I think that this problem is fantastic all over Estonia. What can I do? Koit Pikaro once sat in this hall. Until then, I think it was at the time of the X Riigikogu, we prepared very serious legislative proposals with him, which we thought were to solve this problem for the most part. Then it was explained to us that what we were offering is not going to work because drug crimes, I don't know how it is right now, I have my own business here, right, I don't have so much contact with law enforcement anymore. We wanted to turn them into first class crimes, but we were told that this was not possible, because then there will be no possibility of certain operations, etc. World practice shows only one thing: the punishment must be extremely strict. The person who sells drugs is not a merchant, he's a murderer. This is exactly the way he needs to be judged. If it is not possible to pull him on a rope or shoot him, then he should at least sit down long enough to realize that it is still not a useful business. But we don't have that attitude, we don't. I think this problem is all over Estonia. Unfortunately, Estonia has become a transit country of drugs, we are supposed to be moving heroin to Europe and Russia is being transported through us to all kinds of drugs (I don't know their names) artificially derived. Something is falling behind, and there is only one way to fight it: maximum punishment. This applies to the whole of Estonia, not just to Ida-Viru County. I have to tell you, I move very much in Narva, with the suburbs, in the dark. Okay, in the morning, all of them sleep drunk, but in the evenings, when the fun gangs go around, I haven't had a single conflict in at least three years. The woman of course says you can't imagine what you look like, 120 kilos and a 50-pound dog next door. But that's not the point. We have this problem, but it is no different from that of other Estonian cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U74	Thomas Paur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U75	Good manager! Honourable waitress! The amount of water pumped out of oil shale mines can reach up to 200,000 cubic metres per day. What is the situation with the cleaning equipment? After all, there are several salmon rivers nearby, such as Purtse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U76	Thank you. Thomas, listen, there's Valeri next to you, who's a member of the Environment Commission, who lives where the oil shale is produced and the water is pumped. I don't think I'm going to answer that question at all. Ask the neighbor, she knows.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U77	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U78	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! You presented us with this effective percentage line and justified it by a loss of loyalty or a change in the understanding of history, a failure of the Estonian government's policy, let us call it that, and perhaps, I don't know, with failed propaganda. But today you didn't mention a single important factor, and I think mostly in your emotional speeches you forget about it: the media of our neighbouring country and the fact that Ida-Viru County is largely influenced by Russian media. Please stop at it for a while. I'm sure you've considered and analyzed the magnitude and effect of this. Is this only hostile to the Estonian state? How big is this brainwashing, what does this media do? You, a good colleague, love to talk about the Estonian media, but we are talking about the Russian media today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U79	Thank you. When I talk about Russian media, it is usually simply expelled from the interview and not printed, and both the Estonian and Russian media media do so, because I say what I mean. What is the effect? I'll tell you. My circle of communication is usually made up of people 35 years of age and older. Younger people just have their own interests. I communicate with them when I go to schools and meet graduates, but I can't even give you an estimated opinion about them, but for those 35 years of age and older, I think the influence of the Russian media on them is almost 100%. As I've been saying, when I move around in Narva, I usually leave in reserve, of course, depending on the length of the route, some quarter or half hour, because it's inevitable that the button will be picked up and some sensational news will be discussed. I just see it. Narva had 59463 inhabitants on 1 January 2017, 4% of them were Estonians, and some Estonians are Estonians who do not speak Estonian at all, they were Estonians after their passport. This is compensated by those who temporarily come as teachers or serve at the border, etc. They are probably watching Estonian channels, Estonian programmes, reading Estonian newspapers etc., but for the rest, I think that for very simple reasons, the conformity and the interest of the mentality will be seen in Russian channels. I'm also more excited to watch some kind of Solovov show because these shows have a special character. There are performers from the wall to the wall, there is always a conflict, there is always both Putin-minded and anti-Putin. If you compare their argument, after that, you control something on the Internet to figure out who lied to them and who told the truth, the attitude is formed. How can we view this propaganda? It is true that Estonia was not noticed at all in the 1990s; Estonia was not spoken at all; it was not at all. The topics of Estonia began to emerge ten or twelve years ago. I would say that ETV+ emerged as a reaction that Russia began to pay attention to the Russians in Estonia. How to deal with it is a question of its own. For example, by sending a debate about the education system in the Baltic States. I don't know exactly how things are in Latvia, I don't know exactly how it is in Lithuania, but I know how it is in Estonia. I know that on September 1, last year, 68 schools opened their doors, where children are taught in Russian. But now there's a person sitting on the show, specifically it was Dmitri Linter, you may feel this way and say that the whole Estonian education system is in Estonian. There's a specialist from the Ministry of Education who doesn't argue with him at all. This is why a person living outside Estonia thinks that there are no schools here that work in Russian. After that, our people's attitude towards these channels is becoming critical. Everyone can see that, by the way. You can lie to a person about a neighbor, but if they start lying about you, you'll know it's wrong. This propaganda is not particularly effective on issues that specifically concern Estonia. The usual trick is to talk about exodus. We also know that emigration is quite a serious problem. They're saying there's no industry anymore. Well, it used to be, didn't it? I would argue that these were the central elements of the Soviet Union, the vastly large companies. The textile industry in Europe cannot simply strike a blow, cannot compete with Pakistan or China. Factories such as Baltijets, Dvigatel and Sillamäe, all these companies (Sillamäe was once a closed city) may not be needed in Estonia; the production that was produced there is not competitive. So you listen to it and you appreciate it, but the thing about it is, it's kind of like running over things like this. They're like axioms that it's bad. I understand it's not that bad. Emigration's bad, but we're gonna make it. The more people from Africa come to Europe, the more they come back to Estonia, the more dynamics already exist. So propaganda against the Estonian state has only emerged in recent years. This channel that caused us anxiety in Estonia, which he was, Sputnik, I have been watching for weeks. All the facts have been verified there because they realize that if they lie, they'll get their heads and feet so that God forbid. It's just an argument, it's a debate. If you dare, take part in it. But I don't think we dare. People come here to meet you, but some professor who deals with the northern peoples will be detained at the airport and then thrown out of the country. That's not smart. So what comes from the Russian side is interesting because there is a debate, there are ideological opponents meeting and arguing every day, and it is up to you to decide who is right. Our minus is we don't have that debate at all. Maybe we can't afford it. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U80	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You talked a lot about attitude and attitude design today. In my opinion, culture, cultural space, is always an important element in shaping this attitude. How do you assess the activities of the Narva Museum in Narva? What, then, is the specific criticism of the Narva Museum of why these relations with the government have become very intense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U82	Thank you, Krista! The second question would have been wrong to expect. I can only answer as a museum visitor. I moved to Narva in 1985, and for several years in a row it was that I first went to the museum, then went to the older son and then to the younger son. Later, I visited with friends who came to visit because when I moved out of the utility apartment, the guests began to visit. It was always interesting because it was somehow homey, there was a lot to look at about Narva and the whole history of Virumaa. After things began to change, first and foremost those things that were related to Soviet times began to disappear. It seemed that if something good was done at the time, there was no need to talk about it anymore, we would lock it up, we wouldn't talk about it anymore, and so on. Like it wasn't our history, like it was some kind of lie he wasn't. Then it was like going to a museum and you're just bored because somewhere there's been an exhibition that's not interactive and gives you something new. I think the museum could be a tourist magnet. Even the officials, the bureaucrats, and the government already know he's not. Well, it's not. I have spoken on this subject several times, but I am not very competent. Even when I was at the head of the council, I was more involved in economic matters, urban economy tariffs and such things. Other people were involved in culture and education; these roles were divided. I can talk about my personal attitude. This museum is no longer as interesting as it once was.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U83	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U84	Thank you. Very accurate information or characterization you had about the Estonian and Russian media, thank you for that! It was very true. But my question is about the past. Our President says that in Soviet times we had a very unhappy childhood. I was a journalist at the time, and we couldn't get past a week in 'AK' without going to Viru County at least twice, including Narva. It was a thriving neighborhood, Kreenholm campus included restaurants and kindergartens, men's and women's clinics, etc. It was a very, very advanced region. If you look at it in retrospect, even though you're a Tartian, but you've been doing a lot of research on it, do you think this development was mainly because the attitude was different, or because a lot of money was put in that area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U85	Thank you. I guess now we're talking about each other. I do not think that 27 years ago it was either more beautiful or more comfortable to live in Narva than it is now. Narva has taken a huge step forward. Let me give you a few concrete examples. We managed to preserve the municipal property of Narva Vee, which deals with water and sewerage. EUR 160 million of investments have come from 2005 to 2015, in ten years. The kind of conversion that every industrial city requires, like Narva, we could never have done at our own expense. Every time Villu Reiljan is called once again, I recall what I said to him in 2007 when he came to open our water treatment plant. It was the minister who, in an almost impossible situation, we had huge problems then, allowed us to use a landfill near Narva for another two years. He managed to make that decision in the government so that we could take the first step towards a water and sewerage project. It was a huge step. That's the kind of person you should put in a gold monument in Narva. I'm not backing down, no matter what's happened to him since then. We did it. We fixed the road. Those roads that used to be where they had to travel 30 kilometers an hour, and they still had to look carefully at the holes in your way. Right now, you can run all over Narva. Only this year, for a million dollars, the Tallinn road was repaired, almost a kilometer. Never expected such a thing to come. There are renovated schools, kindergartens, courtyards, and huge number of objects. I would still say that the atmosphere and living conditions have become much, much better. The question is, no human will be satisfied with what he has, he wants more all the time. And he wants respect, so if he respects his neighbors, they'll respect him too. I am going to talk about this in concrete terms today. But that in recent years Narva and all of Ida-Virumaa have taken a huge step forward, I can see, for example, in Kohtla-Järve. Because I have a memory. The Kohtla-Järve 20 years ago and now they are two different cities. So there were a little different conditions back then. But with that, Heimar, the story is that it was all when I was young and you were young. To be willing, this time seems much more positive than it might have been. It was just the time you could do anything.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U86	Thank you very much, dear waitress. There are still questions for you, but our regulation provides for half an hour for questions and answers. I'm opening negotiations. Firstly, Marko Pomerants on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U87	Good afternoon. Just in case, eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U88	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U89	I'm trying to get ready faster, but I'm not promising anything. President-in-Office of the Council. Good guys in the hall! I don't have a beautiful brook to sing to you because I listened to what these three people were saying here and I try to respond to it, considering myself, though western, at least in this hall as an expert or someone close to Ida-Viru. I will answer Thomas Pauri's question about the Purtse River. Indeed, the situation is that at the bottom of the race, the salmon now comes up to spawn, but from the top comes the residual pollution. There is such a situation that this River of Purtse produces salmon oil. But it is also the European Union's resources, so that the upper run is fixed and then the salmon, the eyes closed, can swim upstream in the Purtse River. There are also nice fish passes that contribute to all of this. It's settled now. Now the people, the money and the neighbors that Lembit Kaljuvee spoke of. I am simply saying, as a marginal note, that the first Ida-Viru County action plan has been set up under my leadership. I was then the Minister of the Interior, not the Minister of Regional Affairs, but the Minister of the Interior, and I dealt with the security side, and I also tried to see what could be done for the development of this region. Well, how to say, this room for thinking is more or less the same in 2017. It is not possible to come up with any miraculous measures here, either from Tallinn or the people of Ida-Virumaa themselves. But if I try to define this complex of measures in any way, what is it, is it a magic wand that will stop people from escaping from Ida-Virumaa or Southeast Estonia (as we speak of the Southeast-Estonia Action Plan), the answer is that they will not stop, but he will help to improve the environment of the people living there. I'd call it vitamin. It is still useful to improve and strengthen your health a little during this winter period. I think that this action plan could be such a vitamin or fresh fruit supplement for everyday food. Now, if you think about whether or not something has happened in the meantime, and if you think about the media room and all of this, then I guess we started with that media room bat at the time. I must commend the local invasion of the North Coast, which started making Russian-speaking Ida-Virumaa interludes. But there was a problem with that. Public authorities should have helped feed this page with material to talk about what the state is doing in one area or another so that the Russian-speaking person could understand it. But it didn't go so easy to get the material. I think that is also one of the reasons why this mid-term paper could not last in the long term. As far as the alienation of Ida-Viru County is concerned or not, in the course of the same thought struggles, one of the things that still existed today was the Narva Energy Run. There is also specific financial support from Eesti Energia. I think Raul Rebane is the so-called ideal father of this enterprise. But thanks to this enterprise, many people have discovered that Narva is a place worth discovering and nice. In response to Mikhail Stalnukhin, I can say that I, too, have participated in Narva's nightlife, and that is possible, completely. Maintaining potential. Indeed, it would be nice if the potential could ever be realised. I think that's what people living and working on the ground do every day. Let's take the same thing, whether Ida-Virumaa is being taken out of money or whether the money goes back there. Mikhail Stalnukhin has already given this example. The Narva plumbing has had a huge response in the media over the last week. Thanks to what? There's an election fight, isn't there, and the head of the local water company is organizing excursions in Narva waterworks. I don't know what he's talking about there, and I think he's talking about choosing me as the City Council of Narva, but it's all possible because there's a decent water supply that's made with European Union money, and not only in Narva, but there's a decent water supply in other major cities of Ida-Viru County. In fact, infrastructure has been helped to improve very widely. This also concerns the situation of security buildings. For example, the building of the Eastern Precinct was still quite crappy, but now there are very decent security buildings in Narva and Jõhvi, and the working environment has improved considerably. As for what has been done in history and what has not been done, one part of the truth is that the Centre Party has been in power there for a long time. I'm not saying that as a criticism. What I'm saying is that you should have had opportunities to develop this urban environment. Relations with the country are still suspicious to this day. Pollution and resource charges. To Lembit Kaljuvee, I would like to make it clear that, when this issue of lowering charges was at issue at the time, my evil was primarily linked to the pollution charge. The reason was very simple: whether you produce in bad economic conditions or in good, you are still contaminated, and it must be paid for. Of course, resource charges are the kind of thing that a state or a government can do as it sees fit. That's the decision that came at last. Now Ida-Viru County policy, which we have either done in this Chamber or failed to do. Last time we did it last week or the week before last. Do you remember? It was an EKRE master's bill. The question was who should be able to vote in local elections. The hall was mostly unanimous that the right to vote should be reserved for people who have a residence permit to reside in that country, as provided for by the law. I had a visit last week by the police leaders of Virumaa, and I gave them the same bill as a thought exercise, so that if we had made this bill a law, what they thought might have resulted from it. This situation was in their view, how to say... Obviously, this bill couldn't have ended any other way than the way we did here. Is that when my eight minutes are over? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U90	Time goes fast, the Polish state is already 2,000 years old.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U91	I'm trying to stop very quickly. Jaak remains unresponsive to Aab, but the important thing is said. As far as the unity of Virumaa is concerned, the last very long sentence will come about this. Little by little this merger takes place, the former Aseri municipality becomes part of Lääne-Virumaa. As far as the elections are concerned, I think that in the future it will be another constituency, for the simple reason that the five-mandated Lääne-Viru County cannot last long. The result is that we will not get any mandates from there, because it will all go away somewhere. I'm willing to risk the entire surface of Virumaa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U92	Ladies and gentlemen, Since you did not oppose the initiative of the initiators to get the floor first from the so-called official representatives of the political groups, I will give the floor to Kalvi Tõlle, who represents the Group of the Social Democratic Party, and I will continue my line after that. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U93	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank the central group for initiating the debate on this important national issue. Ida-Virumaa and its future prospects are an important topic to open up what has been done and what is planned to do for Ida-Virumaa. Of course, thank you to all speakers for their meaningful presentations! Sincerely, I was delighted to see a former colleague, Lembitu, who has not been able to meet for a long time. But, good friends, 33 years ago, Hando Runnel wrote about entering Ida-Virumaa: 'We drove towards Narva and Kunda remained on the left. It is so difficult for people to recognise Estonia. " Hopefully, most of us today will no longer feel the same feelings. People living elsewhere in Estonia have discovered the possibilities and offers of beautiful nature and recreational tourism in Ida-Virumaa, but there is still no lack of knowledge and prejudice. Ida-Viru County is still a land of contrasts, where there are many happy but also dark sides. We are here today to talk about the socio-economic problems in Ida-Viru County, which are largely the result of historical heritage and many of which have been in the chest for more than a few decades. We are here to talk about solutions and also about what is needed for the region's development jump. One of the concerns is that Ida-Viru County tends to drain people. As of January 1, less than 144,000 people lived in the county, about 21,000 people less than ten years ago. It is in these ten years that the population of Ida-Virumaa has fallen drastically, mainly at the expense of the working-age population, and only the proportion of people over the age of 65 is increasing. On the one hand, it can be said that such demographic changes have taken place elsewhere in Estonia and Ida-Viru County is no exception; however, Ida-Virumaa, compared with other counties, stands out as an area where population declines most rapidly. Unfortunately, the county is also characterised by high unemployment and poverty rates. The unemployment rate recorded here is twice as high as in other counties, at 9-10%, while employment figures have improved in recent years. The incomes of residents are also lower than the average for counties. The proportion of people living in relative poverty is the largest in Estonia, especially in cities. By the way, the region also suffers from a lack of entrepreneurial activity. Many of the problems here relate to the fact that the region is weakly integrated with other Estonia. Ida-Viru County is also too dependent on the welfare of the large industrial enterprises here, which in turn depend on the world market situation. The occasional confrontation between the central authority and the local city leaders has not contributed to the progress of life. It must be acknowledged that, although several regional development plans and programmes have been adopted over the years, the state could have taken more real steps to alleviate the problems of the region and improve the living environment. But, friends, it's been tried! However, in recent years there is also a major upheaval here; measures and investments for Ida-Virumaa have become more systematic and substantial. Well, now it's closer to everything. The state is planning to invest around EUR 200 million in Ida-Viru County between 2017 and 2021. It has already been decided to invest in primary health centres, industrial and transport infrastructure and state secondary schools. The most important part of education is the decision of the government to establish a study and training centre of Narva National Defence Academy with a large eight-line swimming pool open to the residents of the city. The first investment is circuit 13 million and the second EUR 2 million. In addition, in Narva, the Estonian language building will open its doors to support Estonian language learning. Several ministries take special measures for Ida-Virumaa. So the Ministry of Social Affairs reacted immediately to the recent large-scale concentration. It will provide additional support for labour market services and job creation to the region through the unemployment fund from the European Globalisation Fund as of 2016. This is to help people who have lost their jobs to work and reduce high regional unemployment. The total package is EUR 7.7 million. The main thrust of what the country has been able to do in terms of improving employment. The number of unemployed in Ida-Virumaa increased as a result of extensive redundancies in three large companies (Estonian Energia, Viru Chemistry Group and Nitroferdis) in early 2015. As a result, 1,265 registered as unemployed. Today, according to the unemployment fund, 797 people have resumed their work. Support for job creation was introduced in Ida-Virumaa as a temporary labour market crisis measure in May 2016. So far, some 478 people have started working in 13 companies with job creation support. The beneficiaries are mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, but the beneficiaries also include companies that have moved their production from elsewhere in Estonia or abroad to Ida-Virumaa and therefore need additional labour. Cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has been carried out to find suitable companies and has been addressed directly to economic operators. In Ida-Virumaa there are not only free labour, but also industrial parks, the opportunities of which allow companies to bring their activities into the region. It is important to provide employers with additional support when they are ready. In several areas, higher salaries are paid in Ida-Virumaa, so the employees of the Police and Rescue Board receive higher salaries and the teachers of the Estonian Upper Secondary School and Sillamäe Estonian Basic School are also supported. Several ministries plan to move up to 123 new jobs in the region by 2022. For example, in the coming year, the Ministry of Culture will take the Integration Foundation to Ida-Virumaa, resulting in about twenty new jobs in the region. The Ministry of Culture also supports several integration and cultural activities and the heritage culture programme in Virumaa. The preparatory work has already started under the leadership of the Ministry of Culture to open the Estonian language house in Narva and it is also known that the same building will come to Tallinn. The purpose of these houses is to create the necessary environment for language learning and to improve access to quality and flexible language learning. It offers free-of-charge Estonian language education for adults and integration programmes supporting the effective acquisition of the language. The Vaba Lava Theatre Centre established by Narva makes Narva's cultural life more diverse and attractive. I quote the Minister of Culture, Indrek Saart, who has said that it is not acceptable to have a hall for professional and contemporary Estonian theatre in Narva, Estonia's third largest city. The Vaba Lava Theatre Centre is a good example of how new opportunities can be created in cooperation with the state, local government, private and third sectors. To sum it up. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the current government has taken Ida-Virumaa as one of its priorities and that the country is more present in Ida-Virumaa. There is reason to hope that projects already under way and planned steps, together with targeted actions, will help the region to create a new momentum for development. There is enormous potential in Ida-Viru County, and I think we in this hall are pushing for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, since the President has not received a statement that our sitting will be extended until 2 o'clock, as President, I will give the floor to the opposition representative for the last presentation. Krista Aru from the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U95	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I promise I won't abuse your time for very long. My penguin friend gave me a very warm recommendation that I talk longer and start with my childhood, which passed near the Estonia mine in Ida-Virumaa, and my going to Tartu, but I will give it up. I would rather focus on the words of Jaan Tõnisson, who in 1926, when he made his great tour in Ida-Virumaa in April, said that we need a state-manly tactic, state-manly wisdom and state-manly decency to assess the issue of Ida-Virumaa. I think those words are very competent today. I regret that the Ida-Viru County issue, which is very diverse, varied and also very meaningful, was put on our agenda in such a hurry. 'Shortly,' I say because, indeed, as we have heard, it was decided only two weeks ago that it would be an important national issue today. We could have prepared for this even better. Then, on several occasions, we should not only have read out official statistics here, but we could have looked at and analysed everything that has already been done. These analyses were a little limited here and the level of this debate was not what the Riigikogu could afford. But the title mentions future perspectives. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I want to speak precisely about these future prospects by means of the three principles that Jaan Tõnisson emphasised already in 1926. A sense of civil decency would first require the central government not to withdraw all the resource and pollution charges from Ida-Viru County, but to fix a certain percentage for decades. Then the municipalities of Ida-Virumaa would no longer have to trade every time, ask for and write another application to get back the money taken from them from the central bank. However, statesmanly tact would require that all the good that we heard about here today and that already exist in Ida-Viru County, people are more tolerant, they are used to doing a lot of work, they are allowed to develop freely in order to trust local people. State-manly wisdom would require the central government to create the good infrastructure conditions that each region needs in Estonia. I am thinking of the construction of a utility network, a road network, a railway network, Ida-Virumaa, certainly by the sea and also by Peipsi and small ports. I could use some help in there. Because the environment really is what creates new entrepreneurship and makes people want to live there. These simple things have not been done. Instead, it has once been attempted to run in one direction, then in another direction. The current government, too, would have expected, first of all, not to rush into a new action programme, but to first analyse what has been achieved. We've got the oil shale competence center. So let's bet there, let's not start running the other way again. Therefore, in the case of Ida-Viru County, I would like once again to wish for state-manly wisdom, tact and decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-12_U96	Thank you to all those who have spoken, thank you to the speakers and to the questioners. Today's first item is closed. Unfortunately, we will not be able to deal with bill 461 but, ladies and gentlemen, we will be dealing with it next week. Today's trial is over. For all those who stand for election on Sundays, I wish success, regardless of their political affiliation. I'll see you Monday. Closure of the sitting at 1.05 p.m.
