ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! Forty-five people have registered to be present. Of the members of the government, the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, will be in charge of the Prime Minister, Indrek Saar, Minister of Culture, and Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. I will give you the opportunity to ask a more specific question for each of the main issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U2	First Jüri Adams asks and answers the Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. Please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U3	Mr. Minister! We now have almost 20 years of Estonia's division into 12 constituencies in the Riigikogu elections. However, the number of mandates has constantly changed, as there is a decrease in the population and an increase in the other place. It's already reached the critical limit. Some of the electoral circles would probably remain four-mandated. And now there will be a change in the county borders during the administrative reform. In my opinion, the general view is that there is probably a need to change electoral circles. Can you say anything about that? Has this job started in your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U4	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The Ministry of Justice considers that this is indeed an obstacle to the principle of the uniformity of elections that is too intense. It is a constitutional principle of proportionality in our electoral system. In the context of the analysis of the political system, the Ministry also presented its proposals for a possible future division of electoral circles to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of Parliament as alternatives. According to my information, the Group of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is composed of representatives from all the political groups that discussed these issues in early 2016. The various groups expressed their support for the various proposals, whether the 16-, 12-, 10- or 7-ring system. I would like to say that changing the borders of the constituencies will certainly have a very significant impact on the interests of all political forces, the interests of individual candidates. The starting point of the Ministry of Justice is that a consensus should be sought and the impact of "day-to-day" political motives on the structure of the electoral system avoided. I very much hope that the Ministry of Justice will shortly present to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs its new proposals for amending this system. In order to avoid an immediate impact on elections, it is also possible to introduce a new system, for example, from the next elections. And it is also possible to choose a system where the permissible amplitude of the electoral mandates is established and the limits of a particular constituency are drawn up by the electoral committee, as is the case in several countries, in order to prevent day-to-day technical choices from being made in Parliament. So many solutions are possible. However, the position of the Ministry of Justice is that this problem of uniformity exists in national law, precisely in the sense that the selectivity of candidates from different electoral circles is very different as a percentage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U5	George Adams, the question to be specified! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U6	Thank you, Minister. I am not quite sure that the word 'unity' in terms of the constitution means exactly that. But no matter what we call the problem, we have at least six or seven political parties in Parliament. As far as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is concerned, we had young Mr Kukk of the Reform Party in our own time, but, as far as I know, no one has dealt with this problem in that committee since he left. Perhaps there are things going on in the Commission that I have not been informed about. Maybe there's some secret work going on somewhere, but I don't know. I'm very glad there's something coming from you in the near future. Why don't you open up a little bit of what might be the essence of this ministry initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U7	The content of the initiative is based on the fact that there are alternatives to what this system might look like in the future. The alternatives have not been drawn up on the basis of political motives of any kind. The starting point has been the imputed proposals of the national electoral service. The boundaries of the electoral circles, as is the Estonian tradition, should still run along the boundaries of the counties and, in the case of the city of Tallinn, along the borders of the districts. The Ministry doesn't think it's appropriate to start cutting them around in a cross or other way. But according to my information, there has been no secret work in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so that the vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs would be deliberately excluded from this. The work you referred to, what was done under the leadership of Mr Kuke, who disappeared from the Riigikogu, will no longer be done. I think it is reasonable to look at this issue again and to consider these alternatives, because, unfortunately, demographic tendencies amplify this problem rather than alleviate it. Indeed, as you pointed out, it is more than likely that the electoral district of Tallinn's city centre, Lasnamäe and Pirita will increase, as well as Harju and Raplamaa, and the southern Estonian district will probably decrease. And also in Lääne-Virumaa, it is likely that this amplitude will be quadrupled: in the future Harju and Rapla counties 16 and Lääne-Virumaa 4 respectively. Of course, the principle of uniformity in this regard is in doubt or violated that, if a quarter of the votes of voters are to be taken in one district, only a few percentage points of support must be collected in the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U8	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Do you have any information on how different political parties view the need to harmonise the number of mandates in different circles? Does everyone share the idea that it needs to be changed? In answering the last question, you said that uniformity, whether in the sense of the Constitution or not, will still be lost if this amplitude is so great. It is extremely difficult to obtain a mandate from a district with four mandates, and it also leads to the motivation of candidates to apply there. Is this a threat to the democratic functioning and regional representation of our country in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U10	Thank you. In answer to the second question, I do believe that this is a threat, but, let us say, undermines the implementation of the Constitution. After all, it provides for a proportionate system. The most proportionate system would actually be a one-mandated circuit across the country, then proportionality would be absolute. However, we have chosen a system of several circles, based on logic, to form communities with their representatives in the Riigikogu. But when it comes to your question of the willingness of the various political parties to discuss this system, I have not very clearly held parallel negotiations with all political forces, but I believe that there is a rather consensual view that change is needed. True, it is easier to say that changes are needed; it is more difficult to find common ground. I imagine that the views of the parties will be divided into two parts in a large way. Some forces would like to reduce the number of constituencies, some would like to increase the number of constituencies. I guess that makes political sense. But, as I said, if in 15 months there were next parliamentary elections, the solution could be this, the possible system changes would take effect from the next elections. It is also possible to find a solution where the precise boundaries of the circles in the law are not fixed, but delegated to the electoral commission, for example. The third option, however, is undoubtedly one test, under the leadership of Mr Kuke, at the round table of all political parties, that a specific joint section is being sought. But the procedures of the electoral system will inevitably affect the political performance of this is a reality, and it is very difficult to reach agreement on them. This has been demonstrated by current political practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U12	Next, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson Aivar Sõerdi will answer the question. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, You were supposed to come to the Committee on Monetary Affairs yesterday to introduce your government budget, but you didn't show up there, which is why I now have to use the Question Time format to ask about the budget. The renovation of Tallinn city hall is a prominent, prominent place in the government's investment programme. That is why I was very surprised that the city hall has been thrown out of the budget for next year. The administrative failure around this object has, of course, been going on for years. But my question is, if the country has decided to bury the money there, there should also be a vision. For several months now, the government has been saying that there will be a huge conference centre, which will give the tourism sector an unprecedented boost. But now, at the end of September, Tallinn City Government published a visualization that shows that the city hall will be a concert hall and a theatre hall. What are you doing in there? Are you going to do the conference center, as you promised, or are you going to have a theatre there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U14	Thank you, esteemed Aivar Sõerd. First of all, I was indeed agreed yesterday by the Committee on Monetary Affairs that I would like to give the members of the committee an overview of my budget in this area. Unfortunately, the Riigikogu decided to extend its working time and the time that had been agreed with the Commission was cancelled because you were still holding a sitting in this Chamber at that time. I hope we can find a suitable time for both sides. I'm very interested in telling you about my field. Now your question about the city hall. I'm afraid you're asking the wrong minister. Perhaps you have noticed that there are two ministers in MKM: there I am responsible for infrastructure and energy, and then there is my good colleague Urve Palo. If you look at the areas of responsibility on our website, then EAS as a partner in the renovation of the city hall and any construction goes under Urve Palo, as well as tourism. As far as I can tell, the investment in the city hall is necessary because we have an object in the middle of the capital under the protection of heritage that can't be demolished, and it's pointless to just stop. You need to find an application and content. For this reason, I am happy to say that the country and the capital are working together to breathe life into the city hall and that one object under heritage protection will be saved again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U15	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Since you referred to Urve Palo being more responsible for construction, I ask the general question of 'attitude'. In the case of investments, we have noticed that decisions have been made for Ida-Virumaa and that it is also planned to be made for Tallinn and now also for Pärnu. In view of the fact that there has been an administrative reform and that local governments have grown and that some of them need a certain boost, you are personally ready to support investments in South Estonia as well? And, of course, as an ambassador to South Estonia, I ask about a region such as Tartumaa and the great municipality of Elva, where there are objects that, in the eyes of the people there, looking towards Tallinn, are quite a problem. What investments are needed in these regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U17	Thank you. Thank you for your question. I think that the most important decision of this government for all Estonian municipalities is the restoration of the revenue base. Remember, nine years ago, it was cut off as a temporary solution, and it was despised. So all Estonian governments will win from the government's tax distribution decision alone. True, this government has decided to make a specific programme for Ida-Virumaa. The reason, however, is simple: Ida-Virumaa has been underprivileged for years, rather in terms of investment for the orphan. Now, speaking of infrastructure investments, we have found additional resources for the railways, which are going both towards Narva and towards Tartu, but also for the roads. However, in view of the context that the largest infrastructure object or road object is still the construction of the Tartu highway for four lines up to Mäoni, which costs 170 million euros in total. However, when it comes to small places, you mentioned Elvat, this week I will sign a decree which will give the infrastructure investment and transit route project a set of rules. All municipalities through transit routes can apply for support on a uniform basis. True, there must also be an own contribution. Such a project has also been a few years ago, but on a much smaller scale. Apart from transit routes, there is also a sub-project of road objects related to business. So at the end of the week, all municipalities will receive information about this and they will be able to apply for state support for more road objects.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U18	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U19	Dear Minister, Yeah, I know that all kinds of TV towers and city halls are in the realm of Minister Palo, but I assumed you were familiar with the city hall. But in any case, the Port of Tallinn is directly within your jurisdiction. The following year, EUR 115 million have been credited to the budget by the port: 48 million are scheduled dividends and 67 million by IPO. I only have one question: where does the money coming from the sale of shares in the Port of Tallinn go? It would be appropriate, right and responsible to either place this money in the stabilisation reserve or leave it to the Port of Tallinn so that the port can invest. But I understand it's been decided to leave this 67 million just to cover the budget deficit. It doesn't affect the balance of the budget, but it's going to cover the deficit. Is that responsible behavior? Maybe we should have put this money in reserve or left it to the Port of Tallinn for investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U20	Thank you for this question. The Port of Tallinn is indeed in my administration. Its placing on the stock market is not linked to financing the deficit of the state budget. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I see two reasons why the minority holding of the Port of Tallinn is going to the stock market. First, the Tallinn Stock Exchange needs to be revived. Two important companies have left the country in the last ten years: Eesti Telekom and Hansapank. Thus, the people of Estonia have problems where to invest their savings. There are also problems with our pension funds. The Port of Tallinn will certainly add opportunities. Another reason is the transparency of corporate governance. The new management has done a really great job and the stress of the corruption case that has already been sent to Tallinn Harbour. The change of ownership will certainly make management more transparent and will be facilitated by IPO. Now, your question is, can we reinvest the money in the port? It does not make sense for an over-capitalised company to be placed on the stock market without the provision of super-dividends of accumulated profits in previous years. In such a case, if we do not withdraw profits, it should be shared with other shareholders who are just starting to participate in the IPO, but it is not feasible from the point of view of the State.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U22	Arno Bridge asks the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, who is in charge of the Prime Minister today. Please, Arno Bridge!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We know that, for several years now, there has been talk about the creation of a single prosecutor's office in the European Union. Now we are hearing that 20 of the members of the European Union have already taken their stand on this. What is the position of our Government of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U24	Thank you. I am pleased to report to the representative of the people that last Thursday the European Union's Public Prosecutor's Office was set up in an enhanced cooperation format. An enhanced cooperation format because some countries, eight Member States, did not want to participate. Great Britain has understandable reasons, she's packing her things. Some countries do not cooperate in the area of justice or justice, such as Denmark. Some countries did not want this for other reasons, according to their national legal order. Estonia has analysed this, and also on the basis of Parliament's mandate, it is our view that we are part of it. This is a sensible decision, because VAT fraud is damaging to the European Union, but from there it is also completely directly to the Estonian taxpayer's wallet, which is about EUR 50 billion. The damage caused by other corrupt acts is nearly half a billion euros. Estonia is one Member State in this institution. And I can tell you, without making any statement, that this is the biggest institutional achievement of the European Union during our Presidency, which took a long time. A practical institution has been set up, which should be fully operational from 2020. It will independently support the prevention of corruption and major cross-border VAT fraud affecting the financial interests of the European Union in the Member States. However, Member States' capacity so far has been very different in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U25	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U26	Thank you. Can you open for us a little bit about whether our Republican police will be given additional functions and tasks, or whether some of the tasks will be delegated to the European Union prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U27	Thank you. In the case of national prosecutions, it would appear that specific cases are still dealt with at Member State level. Police investigate, prosecute, and so on. This direct coercion is not the case, i.e. an institution carrying out direct surveillance activities is not formed, but an institution is set up with a general coordinating function and a procedural decision-making function in larger cases. You could say that there are two levels. Firstly, there is the so-called "higher college" of prosecutors seconded by Member States in the European Union's prosecutor's office, which, as a college, takes decisions on the initiation of cases or procedural decisions. Secondly, there are state-level accusations in the courts of a particular nation state, which is delegated prosecutors who work and are based in a national prosecution system. In the case of Estonia, this is expected to mean the activities of one or two delegated prosecutors in the Estonian state's prosecutor's office, who are dealing with this paragraph, as well as the Estonian representative in the European Public Prosecutor's College, who in turn accepts tasks at European level. Once again, I stress that the immediate procedure remains with the Member State. The aim of the European Public Prosecutor's Office is, in fact, to put pressure on the Member States to actually implement the fight against corruption. The current procedural resultantness shows a very high degree of We are satisfied with our national work so far, but it is important that it is good throughout the European Union. One taxpayer's money, one of the Union's money, must therefore be guaranteed the ability to protect it and prevent corruption across Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U28	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! This prosecutor's office is known to deal with economic crimes crossing national borders. Is it not possible to deal with other crimes or is it simply a part of the action most in need of intervention? There are other areas of crime that cross national borders, such as drugs, etc. Perhaps you can explain a little why it was decided to take the economic matter into the competence of this body.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U30	Thank you. In itself, the legal basis for the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office was established in the new Treaty text of the European Union. It specifically mentioned the protection of the European Union's financial interests through criminal proceedings. Now, that is a very legitimate question. If Article 86 of the Treaty allows other types of crime crossing national borders to be dealt with in this format by qualified majority, why not? My Italian colleague sent a letter a month ago calling for a discussion that terrorist offences crossing national borders could also be an issue that the European Public Prosecutor's Office could deal with in the future. The European Commission has said that it will also present its position and analysis on the European level of combating possible terrorist offences crossing national borders in September next year. It is now logical that, since the European Union has different institutions and its own budget, such an institution will be created to protect the Union's budget. In itself, yes, it is possible to extend its activities to deal with other issues, but this already requires a very clear and concrete response. It is true that the institution that has been set up is initially responsible for protecting the financial interests of the European Union and preventing corruption against the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U32	Now the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson answers, asking Artur Talvik. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. When we did the Tallinn Port Committee of Inquiry, Erkki Raasuke said that there is transparency in one way to prevent corruption in so-called state companies or in companies involved with state money. A few moments ago, you also spoke about transparency in a few words. In the case of companies related to Rail Baltic, this transparency has already been called into question. As a minister, what have you done to ensure that any action by Rail Baltic is transparent and that corruption is avoided?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U34	Thank you, good questioner! I think there's one thing that needs to be clarified first. While I was still here in the Riigikogu, I thought that Rail Baltic's head office was in the MKM building. The truth is that different units are involved in the development of Rail Baltic. I understand that the recent complaints come especially to a joint company which has its head office in Riga and which behaves according to the principles of the business. What have we done in the Ministry of Economic Affairs? In the Ministry we use the laws of issuing documents, such as the Public Information Act adopted by the Riigikogu, and we issue documents to those who are entitled to do so. The Public Information Act says that we must issue documents, for example, to employees of public authorities who have to carry out their duties. Thus, the Auditor General or the employees of the National Audit Office as well as the Ministry of Finance have had unlimited access to this project. There is no doubt that you have the full right of access to all documents as a member of the Riigikogu has the right to state secrecy and access to all documents.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U35	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U36	Thank you! Nice answer, but the main question is exactly how to get information from Latvia, a joint venture. Although you said that they behave in accordance with the business organisation, Latvia's business culture is already quite different from that of Estonia. So I, too, have made a written inquiry to your ministry about the information that should be obtained from Latvia, but I cannot send it to Latvia myself, but I have still not received a reply. Is there any way you can ask the Latvians for information, and will the Latvian joint company provide you with this information?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U37	In order to communicate with the Latvian joint company, a council has been formed, and in this council there are also representatives of Estonia. There's a lot of technical information. When I think about the documents that have already been published, they are very voluminous. Everything is available online. Now, speaking of technical information, communication between our three countries, all agreements, have been published. The whole external communication on how agreements are reached, what positions have been in the various countries and how negotiations have been conducted is not always disclosed, as this would lead to excessive attention to details. But everything gets over, and eventually a joint agreement is made. You asked me if I had any problems, that I could not get information from a joint company in Riga in Latvia. No, every time I ask, I get the information. But I also have to ask this question, i.e. they do not automatically duplicate all their affairs for the Estonian Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U38	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U39	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! My question was caused by your first answer. Please, can you describe, within the time allowed, with a few sentences, what is your role and responsibility as Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the ministers that follow you in this Rail Baltic process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U40	For this purpose, the three Baltic States and the joint venture have shared the tasks of what processes the joint venture is doing in the development of Rail Baltic and what is each country's own competence. At the moment, when we are in a phase where three counties have to plan, it is the task of the Estonian state. The Joint Undertaking will come into play when it has to go beyond the pre-project to actual design. All tasks are divided in detail, i.e. what the state must do and what is done together. The parent company is predominantly engaged in activities that have to be carried out on the basis of uniform standards in three countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U42	Mr Pevkur's question to the Minister for Justice in the role of Prime Minister Urmas Reinsalu. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U43	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister of Justice! We know that the IRL has been calling on us, with such resounding slogans, to put the budget balance in the Constitution and to say that taxes are not being played. However, if you look at your recent behaviour, both the six-month rule for tax increases and the predictability in the tax environment, let alone the violation of the business environment, have been overlooked. What do you say to entrepreneurs as Minister of Justice? Why don't you stand up for the business environment? How do you even look at it? You have also abandoned the drafting of the ITC on several drafts. You have a very recent habit of cutting legal certainty or quite abandoning the predictability and legal certainty of the business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U44	Thank you, Honourable Asker! Yes, IRL's position has been such that the principle of budgetary balance should be constitutional. Unfortunately, the Reform Party has not supported this. If, for example, we look at the German Federal Constitution, there is a clear provision on that, the principle of cyclical balance of the budget is fixed. The German Constitution speaks of the promised 0.35% deficit, but there is a cyclical principle. I am pleased that the cyclical principle actually applies to the basic law of our budget, which has been amended. So there is no risk of budgetary equilibrium here. What is the message to entrepreneurs? I think that the most important thing is for businesses, consumers and people at work to see the economy grow. Surely 1% growth is not something we can admire or say that is the ceiling of our ambition. In this sense, the latest growth figures give an unambiguously positive signal, which is linked to the recovery of both foreign markets and domestic consumption. Now the question of legal clarity. When we talk about this six-month rule, which is the 'value rule' and the principle laid down in the Tax Administration Act, I think it is an important guide. This law certainly allows a shorter vacatio legis, and it must be based on the principle that the Ministry of Justice, in its analysis, also said that the lex posterior derogat legi priori. My position is certainly this: the less tax increases, the less taxes, the more reasonable. I'm a long way from justifying tax increases. At the same time, any tax increase may also be aimed at obtaining legitimate income from the state or changing some form of consumption and behaviour, so it is part of the constitutional control world, because it is a constitutional burden.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U46	But the principle is still this: the less taxes, the better life. I'll be honest with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U47	Hanno Pevkur, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U48	Thank you. Good Minister of Justice! It was now two minutes to answer nothing. This statement that less taxes are better, doesn't help us much further. Looking at the views of the various parties in the coalition, and also specifically at the views of your own party chairman, for example, on sweet taxes, I would like to continue on this subject. You say less taxes are better, your party chairman says there will be no sweets, but the Socialist Chairman Ossinovski says it will be sweeter. Of course, you did not answer the previous question at all on the basis of the business environment, but you started telling me about economic growth, but that is not what I was asking. I still asked you why you didn't stand up for the business environment. Now you can answer. Can you, at least in the light of the sweet tax, give businesses the assurance that such an unthinkable tax will not come?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U49	Thank you. As regards the messages on whether tax increases are reasonable or not, yes, this coalition may have corrected the tax increases that were perhaps too rough, which were perhaps too dynamic, these decisions were made during the previous coalition, and we abandoned them. We have canceled the issue of the increase in excise duty on motor fuel next year and the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments. And businesses welcomed it, it was a major step towards improving our economic environment and competitiveness. I do not think that the legitimate expectations of businesses lie in the fact that the tax increase adopted by law must, in any case, come. If this is not the case in the future, it is positive news. This is in no way contrary to legitimate expectations, it is not the case that the tax increases foreseen six months earlier must necessarily come. I can say for sure that the IRL has defended this position in order to calmly review the possible tax increases planned in spring. Several planned tax increases have been cancelled. We were able to do so without undermining the financial opportunities of the state and without failing to pay the politically agreed financial costs. The sweet tax will certainly not come next year and what it will be like in the future will be clear from the political debate. What I want to say is that this overall level of tax burden of 34.4% of the country's gross domestic product, just as it was forecast by the Ministry of Finance for the last year of its operation, according to its own expertise, for the next three years. So the tax burden doesn't increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U50	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U51	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister Acting! Last night, your party companion, Viktoria Ladynskaya, said 'Forum' about the idea that if the viewers only knew how heated the debate had been held inside the coalition. Please briefly describe these debates on budgetary balance. In these disputes, did the IRL also defend the earlier position of not having a budget even one year of deficit, or was it that this time the IRL gave up defending this principle? Please try to answer as specifically as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U52	Thank you. The principle of budgetary equilibrium is an important principle. From this point of view, at the end of last year, it was possible to be more precise, I imagine that this could have been at the end of November, but colleagues will specify how we will defend this principle so that the state can also invest. The basic budget law introduced the principle of cyclical balance of the budget, as it has been put in place, i.e. that if the budget has been in cyclical surplus over the last three years, it will be possible to make higher expenditures, which must not exceed the 0.5% threshold resulting from the European Union treaties. So I can assure you that this principle has been taken as a basis. Moreover, when we also analysed the changed economic situation, the Minister of Finance proposed to halve the structural minus of 0.5% planned for next year. It is planned to move to 0.25% next year. In practice, the budget forecast for the following year, approved or based on the Ministry of Finance, envisages the use of the cyclical budgetary surplus for previous years to a lesser extent than was planned in the spring when the country's budget strategy was approved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U53	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U54	Asks Krista Aru, answers the Minister of Culture Indrek Saar. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Minister of Culture! Yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, we discussed the budget plans of the Ministry of Culture for the following year. However, we did not discuss or touch on any of the plans that the Ministry of Culture has to do with the government's national regional policy, in other words the removal of jobs from Tallinn. What are the plans of the Ministry of Culture in this area? How accurate are they for today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U56	Thank you for your question. First of all, I think it is necessary to say that my conviction that taking jobs out of Tallinn is only one very small part of regional policy. There are many other activities that can be much more important in terms of regional policy in terms of size, starting with the distribution of government revenue between the central government sector and local government, and ending with how the state is helping local authorities to organise their activities of interest. The Ministry of Culture, for example, developed the concept of supporting activities of interest, which is a purely regional policy document and strongly compensates for the difference that arises from the appreciation of the organisation of all things in the settlement. Until then, the Act on the organisation of local government, which you have adopted, is a change on which I believe, in turn, very much depends, for example, on the functioning of culture in Estonian regions. Finally, according to the local government's organisation, there is a culture on the list of municipal tasks that has not yet been completely incomprehensible! However, of course, local authorities have fulfilled this function. In discussions on the ground, however, it has provided an opportunity to talk about waste management from time to time, which is more important to the municipality than cultural organisation. We know that this is not true in practice and I do not think we want it to be our purpose in life either. But coming now...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U57	Thank you. You can come to them later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U58	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U59	Krista Aru, please, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will now be more specific and I will immediately address the specific institution, namely the Centre for Folk Culture. Once it's been a plan to move to Paide, then it's like moving to Viljandi, now I hear it's Rakverre. Isn't that irresponsible for the specialists that are working right now? After all, these are people's work and family life, as well as future plans. Is there a decision today, i.e. mid-October? So where's the Folk Culture Center going anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U61	I've never heard of such plans for anyone to move to Paide or Rakverre, but they've been talking about Viljandi over the years. I remember that, indeed, Maie Squirrel once proposed to take the Centre of Folk Culture to Rakvere, but I don't know any such real plans. Proposals are made in all sorts of ways, and they are considered in every way. I have also had the islanders propose that the Centre of Folk Culture be moved to Kuressaare. That doesn't mean that's the plan. But speaking of plans, indeed, within the framework of the administrative reform, it was agreed, as you pointed out earlier, that the government sector is taking at least 1000 jobs out of Tallinn. And this placed an obligation on all ministries to find the institutions, jobs not related to Tallinn in the exercise of their main tasks, in their area of administration. Thus the Ministry of Culture became obliged to work through the removal of the Folk Culture Centre as the first offer in Viljandi and the transfer of the Integration Foundation to Narva. In discussing this plan with the people of the Folk Culture Centre themselves, the current head of the Centre has said that he has been living in the fear of moving for ten years, with the help of the Ministry of Finance, we ordered an analysis of what would be the best place. We wanted a clear, reasoned and reasoned decision. Three possible locations were selected, Paide and Rapla also emerged as offers. This analysis only arrived at the Ministry of Culture today, so unfortunately I am not able to summarise it to you now, because we have not yet been able to discuss it. The government has set itself the goal of coming to the subject on October 26th, according to my memory, and by then we hope to shape our position, which would be the best choice of place for the People's Culture Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U62	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U63	Honourable President! Respectable Minister of Culture! The topic of the Centre for Folk Culture also reminded me of a long-standing topic concerning the activities of folk culture in the counties. Will the abolition of rural governments change anything in the work of county folk culture specialists? Will anything change in the grants granted for regional events? I didn't find any increase in the budget for next year. I've talked to you before about the county song and dance parties, their destiny. Are they supposed to remain forever dependent on the generosity of the community of local governments, or could they, as a plant stage of super-Estonian parties, have guaranteed funding for years rather than project-based financing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U64	Thank you for your question. I'm gonna start from the back. The Ministry of Culture has held long negotiations. And I am sure that I am not the only Minister of Culture who has held long and thorough negotiations with the Ministry of Finance on how the Foundation of the Estonian Song and Dance Party is financed. We think that the funding should be higher, the Ministry of Finance finds.. and it is probably not a surprise to anyone that it could be much smaller. We agreed more or less on this year's young singing and dance party. It turned out, however, that resources were not sufficient, because technically, much better capacity would have been wanted, for example, in the form of screens, which are forever expensive for fun. If you support me in finding more resources for the jubilee year, the 2019 Song and Dance Festival, I am very grateful for that. However, it is strange for me to hear from the representative of the Free Party that the entire arrangement of the Song and Dance should be considerably more centralised. I think that local communities and municipalities should be more involved in this by being responsible for the organisation in all respects, including by contributing resources and money. It should not be just a matter of a country that is centrally organised. It's up to all of us. If this is not, among other things, grassroots movement, but is a central national event, up to that point, so that the Minister of Culture can dictate a repertoire, as the EKRE has requested, then it is something other than the point of this party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U65	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U66	Now, the honourable Riigikogu, who has a wish to ask questions to the ministers in Question Time, please let us know! Question in one minute. I would like to ask you to start first with where the ministerial question goes, and the ministers will be able to answer within two minutes. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U67	Thank you, Mr President. My question is addressed to the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. You come here once a year before us, you introduce the foundations of justice policy in the Ministry of Justice and what good lawmaking should look like. You have also said that, in general, the Ministry of Justice does not coordinate the drafts if the ministries do not have the so-called intention to develop. For many years, we have had good legislative practice, which requires it. How, though, should we now view a situation where we have weekly drafts that do not have plans to develop? There are currently at least five such drafts on the table of the Committee on Social Affairs which do not have one. Or it is said that the Green Paper on tobacco policy, for example, replaces the development plan. How do you view it? Do you think it's right and normal that plans to develop have not been made? What should we do now? How do you change this situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U68	Thank you. I will also come to Parliament this autumn with this review. I want to stress that I am critical of this. If we are talking about the intention to develop, then it is not the bureaucracy itself that is the aim, but, in fact, the ultima ratio, that is to say, the justification that the law needs to regulate something again. I think that if we have an ultima ratio in some other documental form, either a Green Paper or an analysis, then we need to look at the content, i.e. whether it actually meets the requirements, whether there is a justification that legal regulation is needed in such alternatives, and what the potential burden or impact on the various social groups is. Similarly, in a number of cases, the Cabinet has based itself on the memorandum on which it is based and has decided that there is an overriding public interest, so that there is no need for a plan for development. However, I would stress that the principle must be this: the intention to develop is ahead of us, it is a 'vavangard', and then there will be a law, if it is necessary at all, which is 'arjergard' or 'award force'. I call on Parliament, regardless of the political group, to have someone in the coalition or opposition follow it and be a good partner. I know that the Chairman of the Riigikogu also has many other ideas and surprises planned here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U69	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The question is for the Minister of Justice. Maybe it's not really a question for you, but just in case, I'm gonna take a break. In fact, I do not know very well about Tallinn's life, but people have approached me and said that there are a lot of all kinds of security papers in the European House, but there are no legal documents from which people can read their social rights to Europe. Such leaflets could also be available in Estonia. Is this your area of work and you understand something wise to say, or would it be a question of the European House and legal documents relating to the social field, to the Minister of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U71	Thank you. In fact, the European House is one real estate development project with several institutions. The European Commission's Representation in Estonia rents rooms there, as well as the European Parliament's Information Office. In fact, this appeal and the question are certainly adequate. If people feel that there is little information in Estonian, the primary task of these institutions is to produce information about what rights, privileges, obligations for people in different areas, especially in cross-border movements, are for us under the European Union's legal order. I will certainly note this question and the problem. However, as far as legal advice for people is concerned, we have launched a legal counselling programme at the Ministry of Justice this year. In all county centres, people receive specific legal advice at the agreed time, including, where appropriate, the preparation of a document. I'm using this auditorium or platform here to encourage people to use it. I am sure that many people will approach representatives with their very practical legal problems if, for example, there is a need to know what to do to protect specific interests, so I would also recommend it to you. It is one thing to give advice on the basis of experience or knowledge, but I also encourage you to give references to this legal advice environment, where legal assistance is available to all people at rather short notice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U72	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U73	Thank you. I was inspired to ask the Minister for Justice in particular his answers to Mr Pevkur on the legal clarity of tax policy. You said the less taxes, the better. And the IRL has been saying over the years that no tax is played at all. However, this government has introduced a bank tax, made income tax progressive, taxed companies' cars in addition, and the Riigikogu has a bill of both packaging excise and sweet tax. Similarly, although you spoke about the principle of budgetary balance, it has been abandoned that it could ever be cut into the Constitution, and the budget has been submitted to the Riigikogu in deficit. As I learned about the IRL last night on Radari, you have a very important role to play in the government. Why, then, has the bearer of such an important role abandoned all the principles he has stood for over the years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U74	Thank you. I'll be honest with you, you can't play with taxes. This is a very serious point of view and I am pleased that you support this political position of the IRL. We don't even play with taxes. I repeat my point: just as in the last year of the reign of Taavi Rõivas, Estonia's tax burden was 34.4% of gross domestic product, so the government does not play with taxes, and in the next three years the tax burden is 34.4% of gross domestic product. Here we have a very common platform. As regards the actual distribution of taxes in the tax structure, here indeed the IRL view is such that consumption and harmful active substances should be targeted at a higher proportion of the tax burden and labour taxes should be lower. I am therefore pleased that we have managed to realise in this coalition a plan according to which, from 1 January next year, the Estonian tax burden will be 20% for all tax residents, no one will pay more, but the income tax-free minimum for people earning less than 500 euros. I think this is the right step, because it makes sense to reduce labour taxes. I am pleased that this government has implemented the largest in Estonia's history, I do not know how it was in Päts' time, but in the largest in nominal money in the post-release history, the reduction of labour taxes. We did it, Remo! There's nothing to say. Less taxes on labour is a good thing, it is not to be ashamed, it is not to be feared. But then again, I totally agree that you can't play with taxes. That is why the tax burden remains at the level that it was in the government led by the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U75	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister of Justice! Can you tell me whether in the future the training of lawyers will be limited to the University of Tartu or whether there will be other options?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U77	Thank you. The constitutional autonomy of research in Estonia and the freedom to teach in universities are protected. In fact, this means that both private universities and public universities are free to organise their studies themselves. When we talk about the reform of free higher education, the positive thing that we did back to some government, so that there was uniformity, clear principles, such a national reform, it was precisely about giving more autonomy to universities, i.e. not on the basis of specific disciplines, but in the form of block grants from the state budget to universities for operational costs. The Ministry of Justice does not, in itself, intend to prohibit academic studies in law at any other university. There is no plan to recommend this to the Ministry of Education and Research, which coordinates communication with universities in the central government. The problem that the questioner apparently points to is, in fact, the level of funding of our national university, the University of Tartu. This is an important issue which I, as Minister of Justice, consider to be important and must be addressed. You see, law in one country is national science. This is similar to the language and other fields of national science that the University of Tartu deals with as a national university. In my opinion, this function must be further supported. We are working on possible alternatives with representatives of our Ministry of Justice and Education and Research.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U78	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U79	Thank you, Chairman. My question goes to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and this was prompted by the comment of a good colleague, Aivar Sõerd, that all kinds of TV towers and city halls will receive support. Please assess the importance of the tourism sector in the Estonian economy!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U80	Thank you for your question. In fact, our approach is that only investments in important objects, such as the major international conference centre in the future, will not provide us with a flow of tourists, so we will contribute quite a lot to infrastructure. I also consider it important that we have good air connections and air traffic to be diverse and that our Tallinn Airport can also attract new air connections and airlines here. There's some serious work going on for this. I think that no one is arguing here in the Riigikogu Hall either that every tourist who finds a way to Estonia brings added value and is important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U81	Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu in the role of Prime Minister. Thank you, Ministers Kadri Simson and Indrek Saar. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U82	Hello again, everyone! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U83	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Members of the Reform Party Group would like to submit an inquiry to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas regarding the decision taken this spring by the Scientific and Development Council that the proportion of public R &amp; D funding compared to GDP will be maintained at this year's level until 2021. This represents a magnitude of 0.8% of GDP. This is directly contrary to the Estonian strategy for R &amp; D and innovation "Knowledge-based Estonia" approved by the Riigikogu on 22 January 2014, which unambiguously aims to increase state funding for R &amp; D to 1% of GDP by 2020. In this context, we ask the Prime Minister why the government does not follow the principles of the strategy approved by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U84	Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U85	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Defence about the bottlenecks in the training of Estonian reserve officers. In recent times, much has been said about training and courses for reserve officers, which are being organised more and more quickly and in passing. In this context, we ask you to answer four questions: 'Who is drawing up the training plan for reserve officers and on what basis are the principles for setting up reserve officers' courses? How is it possible that persons without any military training or military service will immediately receive reserve officers' courses? Do you not think that in order to attend reserve officers' courses, you should not attend either a sergeant's or a sub-officer's course in advance or have at least participated in a long time in the departmental work of the Defence League? What is the attitude of the Minister of Defence towards the future code of ethics of the reserve officer, by the example of a person currently passing the course and becoming known for harassment in Malaysia? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U86	I have accepted two inquiries. The first one will certainly meet the requirements of the Home and Working Procedures Act, hopefully the second one too. We'll send them to the ministers. Incoming check, please! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U87	The first item is the second reading of draft law 474 on the approval of amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Borodich, member of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U88	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 10 October. No proposals were received within the deadline for amendments. As a draft adopted in two readings, the Commission decided by consensus: The first decision was to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by today's 18 October, while the second proposal is to hold a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U89	Any questions for the waitress? No questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. As you have heard, there were no proposals to amend draft 474 and the Commission's proposal is a final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 474. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 474 and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act approving amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail and its Annexes has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U90	Second reading of the draft Population Register Act 382 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mart Nutt, waitress of the Constitutional Commission, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U91	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the second reading of the draft law 382 at three ordinary committee meetings. These three meetings took place on 25 September, 9 October and 10 October this year. Different guests were invited to the various meetings. On 25 September, Enel Punga, Head of the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior, Mairis Kungla, Deputy Head of the same department in the field of law, and Mari Käe, Legal Adviser to the same department. Visitors from outside the Riigikogu and the government were also invited to present their proposals to this debate. Mati Kadak, Chairman of the Law Enforcement and Bankruptcy Board, Chancellor Kristi Hunt, Adviser to the Estonian Union of Cities Anne Läns, consultant Marliis Rettau and legal adviser to the Estonian Association of Rural Governments Tiina Ühenvärav. At the next debate, on 9 October, there were also visitors, but this time they represented only the Ministry of the Interior, or the initiator of the draft. Enel Pungas, Head of the Department of Population Operations of the Ministry of the Interior, Mairis Kungla, Deputy Head of the same department in the field of law, and Mari Käbe, Legal Adviser to the same department. The third debate, which took place on 10 October, was not invited from outside the house; only the members and advisers of the Commission participated. A brief discussion. As has been said, during the meeting on 25 September, visitors were also outside the house and, according to its agenda, their proposals were discussed first. The first responses to the visitors were given by the initiators of the draft. I can say that the debate mainly concerned a large number of technical details. If there is an interest in this rather in-depth debate going further, then the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be able to examine the protocol, where everything is very accurately reflected. At its second meeting, held on 9 October, the Commission reviewed and decided on the proposals. There was also a debate on these proposals in the form of questions and answers. No separate amendments were tabled by the members of the Riigikogu. The proposals have therefore been submitted from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself. They have been made primarily in cooperation with the initiators, but a number of proposals from outsiders have also been taken into account. These proposals are four in the table of the amendments. Three of them are extremely technical. However, one proposal, namely the third one, also raised some questions, after which the Commission decided to refer the matter to the Data Protection Inspectorate for a position on the content of the proposal. I will now dwell on this proposal a little more closely, but before I say that on 10 October, having received an answer to this question, the table of amendments was finalised. Although the decision had already been taken on 9 October, this proposal was taken into consideration once more on 10 October. Procedural decisions were also taken at the meeting on 9 October. Now, as I said, briefly from the third proposal. This reads as follows: 'To be completed by § 112 of the draft, by changing the numbering of the following paragraphs, with the following wording:'. For the sake of clarity, I also read in advance of § 112 'Before the entry into force of this Act, the restrictions on access to current data in the population register'. This reads as follows: 'Before the entry into force of this Act, the restriction on access to personal data and related data imposed at the request of a person which does not meet the objectives of subsection 57 (1) of this Act shall be deemed to have been imposed upon the entry into force of this Act for the purposes set out in subsection 57 (1) of this Act. " Now there was a glimpse of the explanation given by Mari Käb on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. He explained that this proposal concerned the inclusion of an implementing provision in the draft Population Register Act. The current Population Register Act allows the restriction of access to personal data to be imposed without defining the purposes for which it is set. If a person completes a request to impose a restriction on access to his or her data, the form of the application gives the choice of the purpose for which the restriction on access is intended. Where a person does not choose separately the object of the restriction, such as to prevent advertising or studies, a restriction on access shall be imposed on all persons requesting access on the basis of legitimate interest. However, this extensive restriction on access to data is neither justified nor justified, as it also partially restricts the exercise of fundamental rights of persons who have the basis for obtaining such data. Therefore, the basis for imposing a restriction on access in the draft Population Register Act is more limited than in the current Act. According to the draft, the restriction on access to data can only be imposed on advertisers and researchers. As the draft aims to introduce access restrictions more narrowly than the existing law does, the implementing provision provides that access restrictions imposed on all persons are to be considered as access restrictions for advertising and research purposes for data processors. This will ensure the same treatment of access restrictions. This provision also raised questions in the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Whether or not this could result in an invasion of privacy. This question, I will also say in a name, was raised by Arto Aas and I also raised it. The originators considered that persons with a legitimate interest in accessing the data should have the right to use the data. For example, the Bank has a legitimate interest in the personal data of persons who have a contract with the Bank. For example, a bank should know if a person has died or moved. There is also a legitimate interest, for example, in companies that provide fast-track loans. The data are thus provided for the benefit of individuals, as well as for the purpose of enabling the lender to identify the identity. However, in order to know how to deal with the problem of data protection and privacy, the Commission decided to refer the matter to the Data Protection Inspectorate as to whether they considered the wording of Amendment 3 to be correct. We have received the answer that the Data Protection Inspectorate supports this wording and considers it a very appropriate solution. This was also the answer to the question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I will also introduce the procedural decisions that have been taken. As has been said, the four proposals set out in the table of the amendments are submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself. The Commission's decision is to present them and therefore approve them by consensus. Namely, Marko Pomerants, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt, Peeter Ernits and Tiit Terik were in favour of this proposal, or all the members of the committee who were present. The following Commission decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 18 October 2017 to propose the termination of the second reading and to send it to third reading when the second reading is completed by 25 October. It was also proposed that the draft be put to a final vote at third reading. All decisions were taken by consensus. Therefore, the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is today to conclude the second reading of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U92	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Four proposals have been tabled to amend the proposal 382, which we need to examine. Everything is from the Commission: the first, the second, the third and the fourth. Dear Riigikogu, the second reading of Bill 382 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U93	Second reading of the draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, is a waitress for this draft. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U94	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at its meeting on 9 October. Katrin Lõhmus, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Külli Suurvarik, Head Specialist, and Diana Rammul, Adviser to the Legal Department, were invited. No proposals came from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for amendments, 4 October. The further procedure for the draft was discussed and four consensual decisions were taken: to propose a draft to be placed on the agenda of the 487 plenary sessions on 18 October, to propose the termination of the second reading and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 25 October and to propose a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U95	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Chef! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. No amendments were tabled. The second reading of Bill 487 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U96	Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market initiated by the Government of the Republic 465. The Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, Aivar Kokk, is a waitress. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U97	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, On 9 October, the Rural Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed draft law amending the Fisheries Market Management Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 465. Hannes Ulmas, Head of the Management and Trade Bureau of the Ministry of Rural Affairs and Diana Rammul, Adviser to the Legal Department, were also invited. The deadline for amendments to the 465 draft proposal was 4 October. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. Two amendments specifying the text had been prepared in cooperation between the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the lead committee. They were reviewed and supported by consensus. Four other consensual decisions were taken: to propose a draft of 465 on the plenary agenda by 18 October, to propose the termination of the second reading and, if the second reading is closed, to send the draft to third reading by 25 October and to propose a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U98	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Aivar Chef! I'm opening negotiations. I'm closing the negotiations because there are no participants. Two amendments to the draft were tabled. Let's take a look at them. Both have been proposed by the Committee on Rural Affairs and, of course, both have been taken into account. First, second. Dear Riigikogu, the second reading of Bill 465 is complete. The manager's break is five minutes. ¶ ah e g ¶ ah e g ¶
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U99	We continue: Second reading of the draft Act on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 459. The rapporteur is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U100	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I humbly apologize for being late. The first case I've had in 18 years! But I think this is the first case since the two other readings were done in three minutes. Maybe that apologizes a little. But once again, I'm sorry! But now, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly remind you of the content of this draft. This is a new version of the previous law and the need for it arose as a result of the introduction of new international standards for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and their transposition into European Union law. The draft provides for changes to the range of business register services. In the future, legal entities will be able to store their actual beneficiaries' data and other persons will be able to view this data electronically through a business register. In addition, information on regulated bank and payment accounts can be communicated to the competent authorities. The point is that, in order to transpose one directive, we still needed five Commission meetings between the first and second readings. The reason was that letters were sent to all the organisations involved to ask for their opinion. We received nine responses which included both questions and opinions and suggestions. This is why we also met with representatives of the Estonian Bar Association, the Estonian Banking Association and FinanceEstonia, and although the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit any amendments to the committee, they were still 30. More than a third of them, or 11, are technical in nature: some terms had to be specified, some references were flawed, etc. The rest of the proposals reflected Estonia's circumstances, which are, of course, allowed by every directive, and the organisations involved took advantage of this possibility. In summary, the following decisions were taken by the committee: to put the draft on the agenda of the Riigikogu plenary on 18 October and to close the second reading. This decision was taken by consensus. The majority of the 30 amendments received were proposed by the masters of their field. There were disputes, but this ended when all the amendments were received by consensus in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U101	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U102	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned that the 30 amendments are technical, but they are also substantive. Could you shed some light on the proposals that caused the most controversy and disagreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U103	There was a very exciting dispute, because many interested organisations met. I looked more closely at how they argue with each other, and the rapporteur was the Ministry of Finance, who gave his opinion on each proposal and the question raised. And we also followed the opinion of the Financial Supervision Authority. But the area is highly specific. I think if you don't work in the bank and you do not act in this sphere, it's hard to be 100 percent familiar with whoever you are. So this bill was still handled by the people whose work depends on it. And the party that tabled the intelligent amendments won some kind of bid and was supported by the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U104	No further questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. There are 30 amendments to draft 459, all from the commission and we need to review them: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30. Thank you. The second reading of Bill 459 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U105	Second reading of the draft Act 429 amending the Act on insurance business initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Finance is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U106	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This is, of course, another area, but the whole debate was basically the same. I would like to begin by pointing out that the main objectives of the draft are to bring national law into line with the Euro-Parliament and the Council's so-called insurance marketing directive. The transposition of the Directive makes it necessary to harmonise the requirements for different tenderers. It is necessary to harmonise or specify standards for professional suitability, pre-contractual information, cross-selling of insurance and sales of life insurance contracts bearing investment risk. It is also necessary to clarify the provisions that better prevent conflicts of interest than before. Between the first and second readings, the draft was sent to stakeholders for an opinion. The Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Insurance Association, the Estonian Motor Insurance Fund, the Estonian Banking Association and the Financial Supervision Authority gave their written opinion. A meeting with stakeholders and a discussion of these proposals took place in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 12 September 2017. In addition to these organisations, the Ministry of Finance was represented. The question put by my colleague, Krista Aru, could also be raised on this draft, because it looked exactly like this, that some were proposing something and others were arguing against it, and finally we listened to what representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Supervision Authority were saying. The law is very specific. No amendments came from members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees. Nevertheless, the table of amendments contains a total of 27 proposals. The same principle applied to the previous draft: the proposals were proposed by experts, passed the formalisation round at the Ministry of Finance and were discussed by the Commission. All 27 amendments were supported by consensus in the Commission, which was supported by all members of the Commission. We also made decisions to carry out the second reading on 18 October and to propose that the second reading be stopped. That too was a consensual decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U107	Questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. 27 amendments have been tabled to Bill 429, all of which are those of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 27. The second reading of Bill 429 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U108	Now the first readings. First reading of the draft amendment to the State Budget Act 2017 initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiators, Secretary of Finance Toomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the State Budget Act 2017 is before you. The fiscal policy of the Estonian Government is responsible; we refrain from making positive additional budgets. You will be faced with proposals for amending the budget, according to which the total amount of expenditure and revenue will not change. We only want to specify the costs of ministries and other institutions for the current year. It is customary for the Riigikogu to specify the state budget for the current year in the autumn. The proposals for amending the budget have been based on the desire to use public money in a sound and targeted way. This year's state budget has been drawn up last autumn and some needs have changed. This is the right way to change the state budget in order to achieve the objectives set. The changes before you are intended to use the money released as a result of the changes in estimated costs to do the necessary things. The costs of the state as a whole do not increase, but with the money released we can solve certain problems. We can use the money to get rid of the next place. Estonia's own contribution to projects with euro money will release 10.6 million euros. Road Administration costs for road maintenance are lower than expected, as some of the works have proved to be cheaper than planned. In the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is now known that more than one million euros of money will be left to purchase medicines. Also, less money is needed than planned for income support. Where does the government think the money is going to go? Our main proposals are as follows: The money for road maintenance released in the budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications could be allocated 8 million euros to Estonian Railways to ensure the sustainability of railway infrastructure. For the same purpose, we will also focus EUR 4 million on the remaining co-financing of the euro. We also propose that EUR 3 million be earmarked for the provision of social services at the expense of the co-financing of euro money. This goes, among other things, to the rehabilitation of children with special needs and to the elimination of the order of aids. We also want to channel euro money from the residual co-financing to the agencies of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Rural Affairs for the purchase of laboratory equipment for a total of 1.4 million euros. Within the area of government of the Ministry of Social Affairs, we wish to direct EUR 100000 to Põlva Hospital for the surplus of the pharmaceutical budget so that they can cooperate better with the University of Tartu Hospital. In addition, the surplus of the pharmaceutical budget will cost EUR 186000 to the ambulance service and EUR 14000 to the Kihnu helicopter site necessary for access to the ambulance. Within the budget of the Ministry of Culture, we wish to direct 0.9 million euros to renovate the Maarjamäe complex of the Estonian History Museum and 1.6 million euros to design and rebuild the stage equipment of Endla Theatre. This is how these works will be completed sooner than we planned. We are proposing an increase of EUR 1.1 million in government investment at the expense of the residual co-financing of projects relating to the Structural Funds. Honourable Riigikogu! Looking at the wider implementation of the 2017 state budget, I can say that the revenue from the state budget as a whole will receive the planned amount and that we will also do as the budget requires. In eight months, we have received EUR 5.78 billion, or 61% of what was planned for the year. Costs and investments have been made at 5.74 billion euros in the same time, which is 58% of the year planned. By the end of 2017, the Ministry of Finance estimates that the general government budget will have a structural surplus of 0.2% of gross domestic product. To sum it up. As a result of the proposal before you, the government will be able to use available resources to cover other necessary costs. The total amount of State expenditure will not change. Public finances are in good order at the end of 2017. Dear Riigikogu, I would like to ask you to support the draft submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U110	Questions for the waitress. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U111	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you for your report. According to the explanatory memorandum to this draft, you did this additional budget when the data on tax revenue were taken into account as of seven months, or as of July. But you have created, with your so-called responsible budgetary policy, the situation that the excise revenue collected from Estonian taxpayers is collected into the Latvian budget, at an increasing rate. You, too, have brought the estimated excise duty down all the time in the last two forecasts for the economy. We know the seven-month data on the excise, but we're already in October. If the excise revenue is not collected as much as the Ministry anticipated during the summer, the question arises as to whether we are not distributing the money that is not actually being received.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U112	Thank you for your question. The Riigikogu, different governments, different coalitions have used the opportunity of raising excise duties to earn additional money to the budget. I remember 2014. Previously, a uniform excise ladder had been agreed. As the coalition changed, this ladder was changed under the leadership of the Reform Party: instead of an increase in excise duty of 5%, a 15% increase was introduced. Personally, I think it was a moment that gave impetus to the development of border trade. This is really a situation where the ceiling is in place. We closely monitor the collection of excise duties each month, and if they are below the summer economic forecast, we will respond accordingly. However, the summer receipts, which have also led to the 2018 budget, do not give rise today to any adjustment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U113	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I was prompted to ask for a phrase from your presentation: the rational and targeted use of budgetary resources. The budget has usually provided for a few percentage points increase in the payroll fund, but when the year is over, wages will turn out to have risen by 7%. How would you assess the use of the word 'targeted' in this context?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U115	Thank you for your question. That is a good question in this sense, in fact, that we allocate a payroll fund to the institutions and, by doing so, give the borders. In fact, several ministries have not increased the payroll for several years and economic costs have not increased; they have had to cope with internal resources. It has really allowed them to raise their wages more. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U116	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U117	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned in your report, and this bill also shows that 1 million of the funds for the support of medicines have been left over and that other special purposes have already been found for this money: reducing the order of aids and seizing the Põlva Hospital. These are all important things, of course. But was there a topic such as more support for the purchase of cancer medicines? There are, of course, many sick people who apply for money from the private fund concerned, and that is a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U118	Thank you. In the discussions on the additional budget for 2017, where I have been present, this particular issue was not discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U119	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Of course, it is true that the rule of the Reform Party changed the ladder of a uniform increase in excise duty. That's how it was. But with the latest changes that you brought before us last December, I think you have already created an excise crane instead of an excise ladder. The difference with Latvia has always been so great that it is undoubtedly too big and causes damage to both the Estonian economy and regional policy. What measures does the government intend to take in order to reduce these differences, to reduce the flow of buyers to Latvia and to turn in some other direction also in order to buy from Estonia? And what can we do to keep the country stores?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U121	Thank you for your question. I believe that excise duty increases have crossed the border. In 2014, when these excises were increased, I asked Jürgen Ligi, who stood here on the remote, whether there was an economic analysis of the effects of these increases. Yeah, on the one hand, we raise, hoping to make more money, but once the limit is reached, we're gonna lose a lot more money on the other. At the time, I didn't get any answers to that. Only so much so that no such economic analysis has been carried out. I think it's a problem that no thorough analysis has been carried out. By now, I admit, there has been a snowball effect where one cause causes another. Right now, people really have more reason to drive across the border. In addition to buying cheap alcohol, the possibility is also used to fill up the car's fuel tank and maybe to buy something else in a cheap store, such as building materials, or perhaps to use a service. These are the dangers of raising excise duties. However, as a whole, the budget still expects more revenue than costs from the rise in excise duties. Let's see where we're going.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U122	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U123	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum states that the Ministry of the Environment has not tabled amendments. At the same time, there is an obvious constitutional situation in the administration of the Ministry, which the Chancellor of Justice admitted to the Riigikogu more than a year ago. In fact, since 2005, the State has essentially owed to those people who have wanted to dispose of land that has a significant restriction on nature conservation to the State. This obviously requires additional money as a matter of urgency in order to arrive at the processing of applications at least two years ago. As I said, such statements have been up since 2005. How is the government and the Ministry of Finance analysed to resolve constitutional situations that obviously require an injection of money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U124	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance, as far as I know, doesn't do that kind of analysis. But this problem will get relief from next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U125	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, In your report, you said several times that this additional budget would re-distribute the money released. But when I read here under ministry administration, this is where the bulk of leasing payments is reallocated in an accrual-based budget that is not reflected in an accrual-based budget. And by that, the limit will be released. But it's not money. And how can this limit of transition to accruals be used as retroactively? When, then, did this transition to accrual-based accounting take place? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U127	As far as I am concerned, the accrual-based budget was implemented as early as 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U128	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, The Governor of Eesti Pank has criticised the fact that, in clearly good times, we are letting the state budget go in deficit. It has also drawn attention to the risk of overheating, especially in the construction sector, and has recommended that these investments be held back in the state budget. We also had a plan to invite the Governor of Eesti Pank to respond here. There was a bit of a misunderstanding with the Riigikogu's management when it came to the formulation of the question, but I think we got this right. The Eesti Pank Act says that the Governor of Eesti Pank advises the Government of the Republic on important economic issues. My question is about all these areas: what advice has he given you, and why have you not listened to this advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U130	Thank you. The Board's assessment of our summer forecast was broadly positive. They agreed, but made a small remark. They question whether the income tax received by the legal person is as much as it is estimated. In essence, there was no other complaint. This issue of overheating in the construction sector has been widely discussed. Some say there's no overheating. For four years in a row, volumes have decreased and the prices of construction materials have been very low, so it has not been possible to make as much profit as it may be necessary to make sufficient profit from this business. It's hard to say if he's overheated or not. These are the different estimates and, in my speech on the 2018 budget, I will also talk about them in a little more detail.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U131	Urve Tiidus, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U132	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. This draft you are presenting is also very brief about external subsidies. Estonia is known to be able to use 4.4 billion structural and investment funds during the current financial period of the European Union, as well as money from other programmes. Based on the previous period's practice, it can be assumed that this amount could amount to EUR 2 billion seven years after these other funds. This year, activities related to European Union projects have been carried out for €216.7 million. What assessment do you make of the pace of using euro money this year, and what conclusion do you expect to take in 2020 when the current funding period ends? Do you want to wait more, or what's your wishful thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U133	Thank you. The timely use of foreign funds has been a delicate issue year after year. If you look at half a year's results, they're sad. However, by the end of the year, these amounts are largely used up. Speaking of a long-term perspective, I very much hope that the next period of structural resources will not give us the same amount of external support, but in seven years' total enough not to talk about the disappearance of external support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U134	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the surplus of 1 million in pharmaceutical expenditure. Of course, it was very sad to hear that you had not discussed compensating cancer patients for medicines, all the more so that both members of the Riigikogu and the general public collect money in euro-by-euro fundraising campaigns to help people. In particular, my question concerns the seduction of Põlva Hospital. Can you say one thing? The Põlva Hospital is networked with the University of Tartu Hospital, but it is not clear who this money is directed to. Does this money go to Põlva Hospital or is it directed to the University of Tartu Hospital for being seduced? If this goes to the University of Tartu Hospital, it is still very questionable, because according to annual reports, the University of Tartu Hospital has several millions of available funds in the account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U136	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, we will direct these funds to Põlva Hospital so that they can work better with the University of Tartu Hospital. But this issue is more for the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U137	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U138	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! That's an interesting faction, but I have this question to educate myself. It turns out that the largest dairy cow in the Republic, from which it is possible to extract sources of cover, is my surprise at the Ministry of Rural Affairs. The President of the Republic, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, Culture, Social Affairs, and all of this are also crowned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Rural Affairs. For example, the memorial of the victims of communism receives €67,000. Is this coming from the Ministry of Rural Affairs? My question is this: is there the most air in the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs that gives it a bit of a squeeze, or is there something else involved? Have I got it all wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U139	Thank you. I'm sure there's no air out there at all. When we talk about 2017, just some of the costs that cannot be spent in 2017 will be incurred in 2018. When it was possible to bring something back to 2017 and do it this year, the sums were raised this way. This is not a dairy cow. There was simply money left over on an accrual basis, and it was directed to where something can be done this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U140	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U141	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Can you be more specific about directing EUR 300000 to courts for ICT investments in the area of the Ministry of Justice? Does this solve the problem of effective communication between courts and the prosecutor's office when new laws enter into force, for example, so that search permits can be made operationally?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U142	Thank you. I think that it would be more appropriate to refer such detailed questions to the Minister for the Sector to address specific problems. But if I have to, I can answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U143	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U144	Thank you. The Institute of Economics has come up with its forecasts of excise duty receipts. They estimate that the Ministry of Finance is mistaken in its forecast by EUR 18 million. On what basis do you have the courage and confidence that excise duties will be collected, how is the budget for this year and for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U145	Thank you. Well, predicting is an ungrateful job. As a minister, I have realised that other ministers have not intervened in drawing up forecasts either. I have to trust the employees of the Ministry of Finance. They've actually been making very accurate predictions all along. I admit that the arrival of alcohol excise duties in the forecasts has added new factors which may be difficult to assess. I am thinking specifically of people's behaviour in stockpiling. This could work a lot. But this was also taken into account in the summer forecast. As I said earlier, we monitor the collection of legitimate excise duties every month. And if these revenues are very different from what is predicted, then you have to think about what to do next.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U146	Remo Holsmer, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U147	Thank you. At the scale of this estimate, the difference is significant: 80 million alcohol excise duties offered by the Institute of Economics versus 260-270 million estimated for this year, the following year 330. It's not such a zero point difference, it's a magnitude difference forecast. Why don't you tell us what the impact of border trade on Estonia's tax receipts this year is? I mean the border trade on the northern border, which is slowly out of place, and also on the southern border, where buyers are moving to. How much will the Estonian budget lose because these tax receipts will decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U148	Thank you. Alcohol duty is expected to be EUR 237,6 million in 2017. According to the summer forecast, excise duties on alcohol will be 6.6% lower this year than in the previous year. While we are now talking about the impact of border trade, the Latvian border border border border trade is likely to result in a budget of EUR 34 million in 2017. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U149	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, On the basis of your last reply, I would also like to clarify whether the forecasts on which you rely as Minister of Finance have also taken into account the reduction in purchases by visitors travelling from the north to Estonia. They're going to Latvia now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U151	Thank you. The reduction in the contribution from the North is not only about excise duties. These shoppers also consume other services. Yeah, it's been shrinking year after year. When dealing with trading companies, it has become apparent that volumes have decreased considerably. This is also taken into account in the forecast. It's just that there's always a question of who's more accurate. But I also said before that we are monitoring the prevailing trends just monthly receipts and crossings with the Tax and Customs Board, and on this basis we will make the following proposals and decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U152	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U153	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have been an entrepreneur and by now you have become the most important designer of Estonian taxation and financial policy in general. My question is, how, now, by using your previous experiences, do you appreciate the tax-world whiskers that have been spinning around here for a while? What's your assessment? Have these new taxes, which have already been introduced, justified themselves? Bank tax, progressive income tax or income tax levels, no matter what we call it, and those that are adding in the form of sweet tax and some other taxes, what effect have they had and will have on our economic environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U154	Thank you. I'll start at the back. I'm not sure it's gonna be any sweeter. And I don't know what taxes you mean when you talk about new taxes. But as an entrepreneur, I have also been concerned about the fact that there are sometimes tax rulings in this Chamber that affect our business environment, but there is not enough reason why they are needed. All those excise increases that started already in 2014 at an early pace would have helped me at the time and told me why we were raising them. But that's how he's gone. Today, however, we are monitoring how taxes are collected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U155	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U156	Thank you. You said that because of border trade along the Latvian border, we have lost 34 million. Although you have noted the decrease in purchases by Finnish tourists, you did not say the amount. I wonder how much fuel excise duty and VAT money will be left in Latvia. Most of our transport companies are known to refuel their trucks in Latvia, not in Estonia, where fuel is considerably more expensive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U157	Thank you. The positive impact of increasing the rate of excise duty on fuel will be 16.8 million euros in 2017. Next year, we are forecasting a positive impact of 49 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U158	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U159	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of Keidu's initiative. I do recall that Minister Ossinovski has confirmed that in 2019 it should be sweeter, as if it were agreed in the coalition, right here in the House of Riigikogu. Have you understood this arrangement in any other way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U160	Thank you. Indeed, a coalition agreement has agreed to introduce a sugar levy. However, it is currently agreed in the coalition that we will examine this issue thoroughly when we prepare the country's budgetary strategy in spring 2018.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U161	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U162	Thank you. I, too, will continue with the answer you gave me to my previous question. The concern you expressed is undoubtedly justified. Looking at these new taxes that are introduced and introduced, and at some degree of confusion in the tax system, there is reason to be concerned. My question is whether I understood correctly that your recommendation to this Chamber has already been subject to tax changes or new taxes still being planned to be reversed in substance. Would it be right not to introduce them and not make these changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U163	Thank you. I'm not suggesting anything right now. I said that we are monitoring the collection of the excise duties imposed, and if we see that there is no revenue from these increases, then we need to react.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U164	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U165	Thank you. I, too, will continue my previous question. You said that due to the increase in excise duties on fuel next year, if I remember correctly, there will be an increase of EUR 49 million. But since we know that the vast majority of transport companies are refueling their trucks in Latvia, what is the amount of fuel they give to Latvia? Are you guys watching this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U166	Thank you. It's being watched very closely. I do not know the exact amount at the moment and I am not going to speculate, but I generally think that, in addition to filling the fuel tanks of larger means of transport, there has also been an increase in the number of crossings of ordinary citizens in order to fill the fuel tank with cheaper fuel. But next year there will also be an increase in excise duty in Latvia. As far as we know, the coalition suspended the increase in excise duty on diesel for 2018, so that we are almost at the same rate. If I remember correctly, by 2020, they will not actually converge, but the Latvian excise duty will get even closer to ours.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U167	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U168	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I'll continue with the Ministry of Rural Affairs. Trying to put together the overall picture, it still looks like the Ministry of Rural Affairs is quite a milking cow. On page 17, there is talk of 9.7 million, and I read that the money of the Ministry of Rural Affairs will be directed to the Institute of Forensic Science, the UN Security Council's non-permanent membership campaign, social benefits, the Agency for the purchase of laboratory equipment, the Estonian History Museum and the Tartu Art Museum for investments, in the care of prisoners, etc. So how big is the Rural Ministry's wallet that there's so much free money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U169	Thank you. From the point of view of the Minister for Rural Affairs, I really cannot answer why these redeployments have been like this. But I can certainly say that the current coalition will continue to pay top-ups, i.e. transitional payments, and direct payments from European Union funds will increase by EUR 10 million next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U170	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U171	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I'd like to move on to your previous answer. Is your political philosophy based on the assumption that if we create border trade with higher excise duties and thereby encourage growth in consumption in Latvia, and thus a significant part of the tax money in Latvia's budget, then our only hope is that Latvia will come at the rate of increase in excise duty and by 2020 it will be equal to the rate of Estonia? Is that the policy we practice here in Estonia and in the Ministry of Finance? Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U172	Thank you. This approach of increasing excise duty all the time, and more than has been agreed, is not a sensible approach. But these decisions have been made here in the Riigikogu and the various political forces have all been involved in this. Perhaps it has taught us all a small lesson that not everything may just go, sometimes the tax rate may be increased by a reduction in revenue. I certainly do not think that the right direction is that if we raise some kind of excise duty, we hope and expect our neighbours to do so. And if they don't, we'll make them look bad. You gotta think about that before you raise the accent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U173	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U174	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I'll hook you up with the last answer. You have been a member of the Riigikogu in two configurations before the current profession, if I remember correctly, and have seen this life nearby. Would you describe to us your understanding of how opposition parties can contribute to shaping and taking responsibility for the state budget? What should we do to really share this responsibility with the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U175	Thank you. Yes, the experience is that when you're in opposition, there's not a lot of opportunity to talk about it. But ministers often use such a saying that I am only an executor, after all, the Riigikogu has made such a decision. That's right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U176	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U177	Thank you. On the one hand, I find your sincerity and honesty very sympathetic, which really is a rare phenomenon in Estonian politics. Appreciation for that! At the same time, I need to shed some light on you: the state budget law comes from the government, not the Riigikogu. While this is generally confirmed here only with the support of the government departments, you are discussing the budget in a government session, giving unanimous approval and sending the draft to the Riigikogu. My question is this: you are the Minister of Finance and you belong in the government office, but is there any use to you there? You do not like this approach, and you think it is wrong to increase excise duty in this way, and it is wrong to assume that Latvia is coming along with it. If you don't like it at all, why don't you say it? What's it gonna do if you can't influence anything?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U178	Thank you. I do not know which point you think you are on, but we are currently discussing the 2017 budget. And I was not in the Riigikogu when this budget was put together, and I was not a minister either. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U179	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U180	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I want to ask you again about these same excise duties. Sometimes things can go wrong, and it's really nice of you to see it and almost admit that things have gone wrong. But where's the pain limit? At what point, you just don't admit that the heathen shouldn't raise excises anymore, maybe you should change your mind and make them? How much money has to go out of the state budget before your line of pain hits you and you really punch your fist on the table and you say you need to lower the excise duty now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U181	Thank you. I think we're very close to this border, if that line isn't already there. However, if I jump into the next year for a moment, the budget still expects the positive impact of an increase in excise duty to be 58 million. But, as I said, every month we monitor the situation very closely with regard to the collection of excise duties, the state of border trade, and if we can see that the forecasts are not being fulfilled and the arrival of 2017 is behind the summer forecast that we are currently looking at, then we have to decide something in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U182	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U183	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honourable Minister, I also thank you for your sincerity and honesty. You know, in the case of a government representative, this is rare in this hall. That's great! But that's the kind of thing I'm interested in. We had a joint meeting between the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Monetary Affairs where your predecessor, Sven Sester, said that there would be a budget for the coming year, I do not remember whether he said 90 or 99% by him or his team. You've been a minister for a few months now. Please tell me once again whether you have managed to put your nail polish into this draft budget. Have you been able to change anything compared to your predecessor's plans? Did you really want to make a difference? If you wanted to, did you succeed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U184	Thank you. We are now talking about amending the 2017 budget and, yes, my decisions are behind these changes. When we talk about the 2018 budget, which is the next item on the agenda, I have set the framework for this myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U185	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U186	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I have such a very personal question. I promise I'll keep the answer between us. I'd like to turn a few months ago into those days when you became a minister. If you had known all that you have now learned about the government, about financial policy and about these unfortunate excise duties, would you really have become a minister of finance? Do you really regret doing that now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U187	Thank you. I certainly don't regret it. I think that, in the experience I have gained here in the Riigikogu and in the experience I have gained as an entrepreneur, I am of great benefit today in the Ministry of Finance and in the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U188	Minister, there are no further questions for you. It's 3:30. The Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U189	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on this draft law took place in the Commission on 26 September. The initiators were represented by the Finance Minister, who made the same introduction as today. The EUR 10,52 million needed to be redeployed, and it is proposed in the draft as you can see it. After that, there was a debate. The 54 amendments were asked what was the basis for the amendment. Whether it's the case that someone gives money and the other one takes and totals these changes 54. Turns out there's 54 of them. A question was asked about the financing of the development of Rail Baltic. It was answered that there are quite a number of details in the game that require special precision, and this review will be in writing. That's what came in writing. I've got him here, if anyone's interested, please give me a signal, there's no problem with reading this one page. The question was about the investments in Kose-Ardu road section. Answer: The funds for designing that could not be used this year will be raised to the next year. More information was requested about the co-financing of Reid Road and the reconstruction of Gonsior Street. This was the second question to which a written reply was subsequently sent in the form of a table. If anyone has a desire to get to know it, let me know. And there were two more questions. One was about financing the renovation of the Moscow embassy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is done there in concrete terms, etc. Answer: The change in the Moscow embassy concerns the interior. The interior of the first stage of renovation of the building of the Moscow Embassy has been mistakenly planned for the wrong account at the beginning of the year and now the money is transferred to the correct account. Commenting on the amounts allocated to the Baltic Student Party Gaudeamus, it was said that in order to ease the burden on the 2018 budget, this money, like everything that could be done in 2017, was brought to that year. The Commission took the following decisions: to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, to make the first reading of the draft law on 18 October, to set five working days for the amendments, i.e. 25 October at 5.15 p.m., and to complete the first reading. All four decisions were taken by consensus. Now, before I finish, I want to say a few more words for myself. Just because money is transferred from one line to another line doesn't mean that whoever gives it suddenly becomes a dairy cow. These are quite vital situations. In some ways, the state budget is not very different from the budget of some of the larger municipalities. I mean, for example, a situation where an investment is planned, but somebody suddenly, at some point, is challenging the building permit. And that's it, no investment. But if it doesn't burn, and you have an idea of how long the trial will take, then you're going to transfer that money to another line. This is only one example of why such changes may occur in one case or another. The state budget is the most important document that we are discussing here during the year. Accordingly, our lives will change and very much will depend on the state's money and where we place it. I have already spoken about this issue here, and it is actually clear to everyone in this Chamber that the opposition will never work or support the state budget. If he does, he's not an opposition. Everything! As politicians, we understand this perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U190	Krista Aru presents the first question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U191	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm coming back to Gaudeamus's singing party. Has the financing of the Gaudeamus Song Festival in 2017 been negotiated and, to the Commission's knowledge, have these money recipients been informed, or has it simply been decided in ministries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U192	Thank you for your question. A separate question was asked about Gaudeamus, but it sounded a little different. Your question of whether or not it has been negotiated will not be answered by what has been said in the Commission. Or sometimes indirectly. But I have a deep respect for those people who are helping the government drafts and we are dealing with them here. I therefore think that all the necessary procedures for coordination with the organisers have been carried out. I can't assure you that one hundred percent, but I think those people who've been in their jobs for a long time, they're all doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U193	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U194	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your penultimate reply, you indicated that the opposition was not an opposition if it voted in favour. I remember the case in this Chamber when the opposition was prepared to support certain parts of the budget if it had been able to vote separately for certain changes. However, the Chamber was not given the opportunity to vote separately for certain tax changes. Didn't you exaggerate your statement a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U195	No, I didn't. The rhetoric that we are partially supporting is not acceptable to any coalition. In Tartu, you would not allow anyone to write in their name all the good that one or the other legislative act brings with it, and you will receive in your name all the bad that remains. That's impossible. This is often done: conditions are set that cannot be met in any way. By the way, the coalition is putting together good and bad things just so there's only one choice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U196	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 510. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting the 510 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 25 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U197	Our eighth item is the first reading of the draft State Budget Act of 2018 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Tõniste, Minister of Finance, give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U198	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you the draft state budget for 2018. This budget supports the growth of our economy, security and the well-being of our families so that the budget is close to balance. The tax burden will not increase, the loan burden will decrease and public finances will also be in good order at the end of 2018. In my presentation, I will tell you what the state of our economy is and whether we really have an economic boom, what is government fiscal policy in the current economic situation, what is the country's revenue forecast and where we are channelling additional resources. I will start with the state of our economy. The government has drawn up the state budget on the basis of the Ministry of Finance's latest forecast that real GDP growth will be 3.3% in 2018. The Ministry of Finance forecasts an increase of 5.2%, an increase of 2.7%, an increase of 0.4%. Next year, our gross domestic product will be close to EUR 24.5 billion. According to the Ministry of Finance, this growth is expected to be supported both by strong growth in export partners and by an increase in investment. The forecast assumes that external demand will increase by 3.8% next year. Against this background, we are forecasting an increase in exports of 4%, which means that our exporting companies are able to increase their market share slightly. To a greater extent, demand for imports from Finland, Sweden and Latvia supports the growth opportunities of exporting companies here. The Russian economy is also back on the growth path, contributing positively again to external demand after a fall of three years. The prerequisite for sustainable growth and well-being is that the private sector invests in new products, technologies and production capacities, as exports carry out and also satisfy domestic demand in Estonia's chosen economic model primarily by private companies and the state. In making forecasts, we have assumed that gross fixed capital formation will increase by 13.7% in real terms this year and by 4.1% next year, and this growth will continue. Private investment will already reach EUR 4.6 billion next year. If you look at the construction market, which has been referred to as a risk of overheating, the share of construction in the Estonian economy has been steadily decreasing since 2013. While just before the crisis in 2008, the share of the construction sector in value added increased to 10.6%, in the first years of the crisis it fell back to 6% at the turn of the century, from which it has again fallen close to 6% after a temporary slight recovery in 2012. The share of construction has started to increase again since the second half of last year, but initially marginally. While the share of the general government in the construction sector is currently significantly higher than in the previous boom, the reason for this is that the volume of construction investment in the corporate sector is now more than twice that in 2007 and housing construction is also below the previous boom, although statistics show that people's investment in homes is increasing. Given that government investment will not exponentially grow and remain at 5.6% of GDP in 2018, it is possible to approach the booming level of investment only with the support of substantial private sector investment and credit growth. There's no way to do that right now. In general, ministries remain more optimistic when planning investment in external aid. However, it would not be a surprise that some projects will not be realised or delayed by the end of the financial year, as has happened almost every year. Since construction is more sensitive to the impact of the economic cycle than most other activities, it is difficult, at least on the basis of the current performance of the construction sector, to see the whole economy overheating through this sector or through it. Nor is there a real risk that government investments will significantly undermine the building market balance next year. Looking at the shift in the debt burden on private individuals and companies, one-digit growth figures in recent years seem to be non-existent, compared to an annual increase of 30 to 70% between 2005 and 2007. Finally, only a little more new cars have been registered this year than in previous years. In order to reach previous boom levels, car registration should increase by almost 50%. In short, those who are currently talking about a comparable economic boom to 2007 are exaggerating. Moreover, according to the law, the economic forecast must also be assessed by the Board of Budgets. According to the Board of Budgets, the summer economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance describes the future development of the Estonian economy with sufficient credibility. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! A separate question that must certainly be touched on in this Chamber is how far the Estonian economy is from this border, from which the government should start to cool the growth vigorously. The assessment of the suitability of fiscal policy in the overall context of our economy depends on this. It's very important how far we are from this border. In my opinion, the debate on the structural balance has shifted too much steam to see whether the structural balance should be over or below the ideal average. Speaking of the accuracy of estimates of the structural position of the government, it is worth turning to history. For example, in 2014, the European Commission's autumn forecast for 2015 showed a structural deficit in Estonia of 0.7% of GDP. At the same time, a year later, Estonia was already expected to have a structural surplus of 0.3%. In 2005-2007. For 2006, there are differences with the estimates at that time, even in percentage terms. In this light, the budgets and supplementary budgets at that time were quite insane compared to the criticisms already made about this budget. However, according to the Ministry of Finance, the Estonian economy will grow a little more next year than its sustainable level. This means that our economy will grow around 0.5% faster than the models for assessing growth show. The Board's assessment of the economic cycle is almost the same. At the same time, the signals on the cyclical situation of the economy are contradictory. On the one hand, the labour market situation is tense, wage growth is fast and unemployment is relatively low. At the same time, other indicators point to the functioning of the economy below the potential level, i.e. a negative GDP gap. Savings for both companies and households are increasing and the current account is in surplus. Inflation has been moderate until recently, with the exception of the impact of excise duties and world market prices. Conjuncture or confidence indicators are close to the historical average and slightly above. Looking at history, for the last four years, we have moved into a two-to-three-percent growth corridor and for the first time this year we see growth above 4%. For the years to come, we are again forecasting an increase close to 3%, which is well below the previous boom level. So, ultimately, in 2018, we can talk about a recovery in economic growth close to the appropriate level. A half a percent movement above the ideal estimated growth is certainly no disaster given the accuracy and variability of such forecasts. A similar boom in 2007, where economic growth was characterised by a two-digit number with the support of the inflowing loan money, we are still very, very far away. To conclude, these forecasts and estimates of the output gap and of the structural balance are one and certainly not the ideal tool for governments in fiscal policy-making. But as long as we do not have a better tool and such rules have been agreed in Europe, we must follow them, and that is what we will do. Dear members of the Riigikogu, what is the fiscal policy of the government in this context? In the light of the above, the government has taken the position that it is not yet the right time for strong economic cooling. Looking at real expenditure figures and comparing them with the size of the economy as a whole, the government sector will not have a significant impact on the fiscal policy economy in the coming year either in terms of growth or decline, as the budget is close to balance. And the strategic investments that the government plans to make in order to improve our roads and internet connections, other infrastructure and defence capabilities at the expense of reserves or loan money will not change this picture significantly either. In summary, the government's fiscal policy is more conservative than the government agreed in spring. It is more conservative than the State Budget Act allows, and probably more conservative than at times when Estonia was dealing with a real boom, when it really needed to cool it down. The general government budget is only 0.25% away from the structural balance in terms of GDP. Our tax burden will remain at last year's level, i.e. 34.4% of GDP in the coming year and the loan burden will fall by 0.4% of GDP, remaining at 8.6%. And as several analysts have suggested, a number of investments have been delayed or delayed so that the impact of the government sector on the construction market is less than planned in spring. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that the current law does not oblige the government to use past surpluses, but provides an opportunity to do so. My aim is to bring the budget into structural balance as quickly as possible. Looking at public revenue in the context of economic growth, the tax burden is forecast not to increase but to remain stable at last year's level, at least until the election year. I recall that when the coalition agreement was signed, there were a lot of new taxes. By now, most of them are off the table and hopefully they will not return to the table, at least before the elections. Looking at tax policy more broadly, I, as Minister of Finance, am concerned about a trend that began in 2014, when excise duties were increased to better meet the commitments of the coalition set up before the elections. The milking of the same cow has continued during different coalitions. As a person from business, I can see that we are now in a position where the limits of excise policy have come up. I think we all have a lesson to learn from this. Turning to the revenue forecast for 2018, I would first of all like to say that I, as a minister, will not interfere in the work of the forecasts, as I hope my predecessors have acted. Looking at the forecast for 2017, I can say that at the amount of tax revenue of nearly 8 billionaires, the forecast error is estimated to remain at 0.1% of the budget of the circa. By type of tax, the deviations are somewhat higher than a year ago, but most of the forecasts are on track. The accuracy of the forecast has also been plus/minus a few per cent compared to the actual situation, and the accuracy of the estimates for the larger tax categories is within a few or a few decades and ultimately compensates for each other. The Ministry of Finance has corrected the tax forecast downwards in 2017 for alcohol excise duties: this money is expected to be about 14% or EUR 39 million less than expected. The main reason is that in December 2016, merchants bought more alcohol than expected in the warehouse because they were not sure exactly when the excise duty would rise. As a result, part of the planned revenue for 2017 was received as early as 2016. The forecast also expected a smaller collection of beer before the summer excise increase and, in fact, the sale of beer with a higher excise rate this year was less than planned. The real problem is, of course, the change in consumption and the change in the volume of border trade at both the northern and southern borders. This is the situation we keep under constant surveillance. Now for revenue for 2018. Tax revenue first. Tax revenue from the state budget, i.e. social security contributions, will increase by nearly EUR 600 million, i.e. 8.9%, compared to the forecast in 2017. I'll bring out some major changes here. As a result of the increase in the tax-free rate, the income from personal income tax decreases by nearly EUR 159 million. The average wage will increase by 5.2%. This figure also shows most vividly that labour taxes will ultimately decrease rather than increase, as is sometimes the case. As a result of employment and wage growth, social tax will increase by EUR 195 million. As the economy grows and prices rise, VAT will increase by 190 million euros. EUR 203 million, i.e. around 56%, increases in income tax on legal persons, mainly due to lower tax rates on dividends from legal persons if they are taken out in a stable manner over several years. We are forecasting a much more active dividend withdrawal here by large foreign companies with large undistributed profits. This is just good for businesses. The Board, which is also reviewing the revenue forecast, has been somewhat sceptical about the tax impact of the new system of dividends for legal persons. As a comment, I would just like to point out that the companies had accumulated EUR 23.6 billion of undistributed profits at the end of 2015 and the expected impact of the tax change in 2018 would be the same as the extraordinary income tax of Swedbank, one company in 2015. And the last major growing revenue group is an increase in excise duties of EUR 166 million, of which approximately EUR 100 million is an increase in excise duties on alcohol and about 50 million is an increase in excise duties on motor fuel. Both are due to the gradual increase in excise duty rates in recent years. I've already told you about the excise forecast, and I'm not going to go over it right now. Overall, our tax burden will be stable in the coming years. A number of taxes proposed in the Coalition Agreement will be excluded and a number of tax measures will support economic and entrepreneurial growth. In addition, I would also like to say that tax policy is not only about tax laws, but also about their administration. The better and more effectively we collect taxes, the lower the tax rates can be and the more fair competition is. The latter is something that entrepreneurs are eagerly expecting from us. The important thing is that in Estonia it would be easy and manageable to pay taxes honestly. But it must be as difficult as possible to avoid taxes and defraud the state and thus live on the account of its fellow citizens. To this end, the Tax Administration intends to pay more attention in the coming years to advice, cooperation and information for businesses and to simplify reporting. In addition, it is planned to focus more on limiting the payment of envelope wages, for which the new Public Procurement Act offers additional opportunities in the construction sector, for example. In addition to tax revenue, there are several types of revenue available in the budget. First, dividends. It has been argued that the government is financing costs on the basis of extraordinary revenues and, for example, dividend income. In fact, revenue from dividends for the following year is set at EUR 130 million in the budget and is 28 million less than last year. This has been less than the usual average dividend income for the years 2013 to 2017 has been around EUR 140 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U199	Minister, would you like some extra time? It is possible to give it to you under § 67.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U200	Yes, thank you! Sorry to cross over, but I'd like five more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U201	Please, five minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U202	Thank you. Finally, I will talk about external subsidies. In the state budget for 2018, the costs are estimated at around 1.1 billion euros, or almost 10% of the state budget is external grants. The increase in external resources is close to 270 million euros. Nearly 40% of external support is spent on investments. With regard to external subsidies, I would like to say from this remote control that the rumors of their ending have been greatly exaggerated. We do not yet know what our envelope will look like in the next financing period, but it is certain that the changes will certainly not be drastic given the size of the state budget. As far as adaptation to new circumstances is concerned, it is worth remembering that much euro money is needed for investments, but these objects will be completed and will last for years. But there is certainly a need to review and evaluate the current activities carried out using euro money, which will make sense in the future to continue and not to do so. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, now to the cost! Turning to the role of general government and the share of general government in the wider economy, the share of government expenditure in GDP is forecast to be lower next year than in the three previous years, i.e. just over 40% of GDP. This means that neither the share of government expenditure will increase this year nor next year compared to the total economy. For the first time, the amount of expenditure in the 2018 budget is more than EUR 10 billion, namely EUR 10.6 billion in combination with state budget investments. This means that our costs will increase by nearly EUR 900 million, of which some 270 million is, as I said, the costs of external support. By handing over the budget, the Prime Minister gave a long overview of its cost and I will not repeat what he has said, but I will stress over some of the most important major figures. The areas of the largest growth in scale in the 2018 budget are the economy, i.e. mainly road construction and transport, as well as supporting agriculture and entrepreneurship at around 300 million. Some 150 million are added to health care, both from the increase in social tax receipts and from the additional amounts that will be received by the Health Insurance Fund for pensioners. More than 120 million euros will be added to education, including the costs of raising teachers' salaries and maintaining the level of R &amp; D expenditure. Social protection will be increased to 100 million, mainly to increase pensions and family benefits and to increase the allowance for large families to EUR 500 per month, as well as to help many other vulnerable groups and to help the labour market. National defence costs are increasing in line with GDP growth. This will be complemented by costs related to the acceptance of allies and strategic investments in national defence. Looking at the increases in percentage terms, the budgets in all sectors are growing for various reasons. I would like to say right away that the comparison of two-year figures and percentage increases in the budget is not a good picture, because in some years, investments and euro projects are being carried out in one area, some years in another. A few words about people who get paid by the state. The general government had 117000 employees in 2016 and approximately 54000 employees are paid through the state budget. Since 2014, the number of employees in the general government has fallen by just over 2 000. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Finally, I will highlight some reforms and steps that will help make our country more effective and stimulate the economy. First of all, the administrative reform expected in society for decades and planned and now implemented in several coalitions. Secondly, an increase in the tax-free rate to EUR 500. Thirdly, the reform of parental benefit, income support and incapacity for work and a number of tax changes, starting with tax solutions on dividends for mature companies and ending with an entrepreneurial account. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This budget supports growth in our economy and security, as well as in the well-being of our families. The country's economy is in good condition at the end of 2018. Thank you and I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U203	Many members of the Riigikogu have no questions for you, but many do. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U204	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I can't stop listening to your speech. You come before us in a deficit with a budget at a time when the economy is in a growth phase, and then, just as if to justify it, you are going to read out the mistakes that governments have made in 2005, 2007 and 2014. Mr. Minister, during the 2005-2007 period, we collected reserves, you are draining reserves. The Prime Minister said here that, oh, we will only take EUR 86 million from reserves next year. Minister, in 2019 today we know that EUR 220 million will need to be taken from the reserve. I think this number is known to you. You said you would balance the budget as quickly as possible. Why are you misleading us? This 220 million reserves in 2019 is not in line with what you have said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U205	Thank you. If we now go back in time, as a good former colleague did, it is interesting that between 2005 and 2008, the structural deficit of the state budget was not 0.25% of what we are talking about today and what the total steam is going on, but on average around 2%. In 2008, this figure was even 5.1%, which is around 700 million. I don't know exactly what GDP was then. At present, we are in a structural deficit of 0.25%, which means around EUR 61 million in money. When it was necessary to cool down the economy, it was not done. It's hindsight, it's not a reproach. It is simply a reference that the argument of structural balance is perhaps not the most successful. When I was at the finance ministers' meeting in Luxembourg, or the ECOFIN meeting, the French minister spoke of this very concern. In 2013, they were accused of having more than 3% structural deficit, but three or four years later it turned out that it was actually minus 1%. That's a certain problem. The budgetary balance is a requirement that must be met in the same way, but at the same time this balance is bound to fluctuate, and so this rule is not very clear. When we talk about reserves, we can actually say that the stability reserve is growing. I think it's also changed today that holding reserves is a cost. If it used to be possible to make a profit by borrowing out of there, now we're making a minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U206	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U207	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. You have presented this budget quite thoroughly, but my question concerns such a matter. How will the state budget of next year respect the right of Estonian people to be treated equally and fairly in regions? Please specify some specific comparative data, even by country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U208	Thank you. I didn't quite understand what reference data you wanted. But, for example, the fact that teachers' salaries are growing and that constants are coming more across Estonia, that the salaries of rescue officers are increasing may help to reduce the problem of their shortage. This is in itself a measure in this direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U209	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U210	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If I remember correctly, the explanatory memorandum to the budget shows that 341 million euros have been estimated for next year for alcohol excise duties. Last week, the Institute of Economics found that the Ministry has missed EUR 80 million: 80 million less should come than the analysts of the Ministry of Finance have predicted. I will take this issue with my question in the debate on the previous agenda item. In drawing up this budget, you have personally been a minister and the government has sent it to the Riigikogu by consensus. If it happens that the Institute of Economics is right, and by the end of next year, 80 million euros will be less received than the Ministry of Finance predicted, what will you do? Are you gonna let some analysts go, or are you gonna take responsibility for the mistake and put some 100 million euros down?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U211	Thank you. I said in the debate on the previous item, and I am also saying that we are constantly following this situation, and it certainly does not go so far that we will discover at the end of next year that, oh, where this 80-million-dollar hole suddenly came from. The budget for 2018 is based on the latest forecast that next year, as a result of the increase in excise duty, the budget will receive some EUR 58 million more than in the absence of an increase in excise duty. Today, I'm going to follow that prognosis. I'm not gonna tell you if I think this one hundred percent is gonna come true or not. If small deviations occur in one direction or another, this is not a problem. But if the error seems to be greater, then we must certainly react sooner than at the end of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U212	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U213	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The previous minister had to hear the criticism that the draft budget was not readable to the ordinary member of the Riigikogu. I am also forced to ask detailed questions today, to which I still expect substantive answers. The Ministry of the Environment once again caught the eye. There was news in Delfi yesterday that the Estonian Card Centre would be closed and their dividend income this year would be 9800 euros. For some reason, the explanatory memorandum states that this year the dividend fee will be EUR 10000. Where is this EUR 200, and why is EUR 25000 shown as an overall figure? The Delfi article did not mention the date on which the Estonian Card Centre would be closed and whether additional obligations would be involved in closing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U214	Thank you. This is now a subject in which I owe such a detailed answer to the question. I'd be happy to have that answer sent to you. But when you come to the introduction to your question, the aim is indeed to make the explanatory statement increasingly readable each year. I hope that this budget will be better understood than it was in the past.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U215	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U216	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You used the expression a few times that the budget was almost balanced. And then you discussed how far away is the limit from which you have to start to cool the growth, and you found that the limit is not really there yet. Now, encouraged by the sympathetic honesty with which you answered the question in the debate on the previous item, I ask this question: can we not together take one of these unprecedented steps in the history of Estonian politics, so that the opposition, together with the minister, can take care of the matter in this sense, so that we can find the 61 million and balance the budget? What do you think are these places, I think they have to be found right inside the central system of the state, where we can make this savings?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U217	Thank you. In a large way, we can say that we are less than the sum of strategic investments. There is a lack of a nominal balance of 36 million, or 0.1% of GDP, which is for example the exact sum of raising teachers' salaries. This is now your opportunity, members of the Riigikogu, to have a say and make suggestions. The Government of the Republic has presented the budget to you in this form, and I very much hope for your good work. If you find savings, why not if the majority of the Riigikogu supports it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U218	Please, Anne Sulling!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U219	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! On page 68 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft State Budget Act, the basis for the programme-based budgeting of research is the "Knowledge-based Estonia 2014-2020" strategy for research and development and innovation. As we know, this strategy foresees that public R &amp; D expenditure will be increased to 1% of GDP by 2020. This principle does not overlap with that of page 31 of the draft explanatory memorandum to the State Budget Act, which states that until 2021, R &amp; D funding will increase at least at the same pace as GDP growth. This means that R &amp; D expenditure will remain in the order of 0.8% of GDP over the next four years. My question is: how do you justify abandoning the target of increasing R &amp; D expenditure to 1% of GDP by 2020?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U220	Thank you. The government's aim is certainly to move in this direction, and for this purpose additional resources have also been allocated to the 2018 budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U221	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U222	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! I am trying to understand the situation that the Governor of Eesti Pank and the Board of Budgets have made it very clear, based on international expertise and experience, that when the economy is growing, the government should make a surplus budget. You are trying to reduce this deficit with these millions, but you are not knowingly mentioning that the state is really going to take superdividends from the port for example next year, so this money is going to cover, not the reserve, but literally the running costs. The mines that are in the budget are, in fact, much more than the imbalance that you are obviously trying to reduce. Please, Reverend Minister, why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U223	Thank you. I do not understand you well in this sense that if the state takes dividends from its companies, why should it feel bad about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U224	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U225	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I share your view that this is certainly a positive draft budget, and I hope that it will become a law. Nobody likes paying taxes. That's what I'm in agreement with. But my question is about the cancellation of the pledge tax agreed in the coalition agreement. It is certainly positive, but when this proposal was made to the coalition in the spring and the coalition was agreed, it was said that the problem of foreign banks and other large corporations taking out money would be resolved by other means. Have we finally agreed on the measures that we intend to take to alleviate this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U226	Thank you. I am delighted or fortunate to be the Minister of Finance who was not at the drafting of the tax increases in the spring. I mean, taxes at all, not just this one. That is why I do not know specifically about these agreements and these plans. I know that this tax has not been discussed by the government, and I also know that, in principle, promises have been made that so many funds will not be taken out of the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U227	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! R &amp; D is not a priority for this government coalition or, unfortunately, for the next budget. But you're also an entrepreneur. What do you think are the opportunities to move forward if research and innovation and development are not used to develop entrepreneurship? With what measures will the state budget boost modern entrepreneurship, which must take the entire economy forward?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U228	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U229	Thank you. I think the government is currently supporting research-based entrepreneurship and innovation. There are many activists in this area under the administration of the Minister for Enterprise. When I met the European Union Commissioner for Research and Innovation, I was surprised to learn that Estonia has received over 70 million euros in research over three years. I very much hope that these investments have gone to the right place and will help us increase our GDP.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U230	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U231	Thank you. Dear Minister, I return once again to the concerns that Eesti Pank has pointed out. One thing is certainly that the government increases the cyclicality of its irresponsible fiscal policy. Now that the European Union's resources are entering the real economy, the preparatory work and the procurement process have reached the point of building a great deal at once, the government is putting more money there. This will certainly make procurement more expensive, there are labour and quality problems, but the government will ignore it, fuel more money. In a few years, it may be a severe fall. The greater the demagogy seems to be if, for 10 billion, anything is done, but it is the amount of strategic investment that is lacking in balance. Question: why is such a bit of short-sighted behaviour acceptable to you as an otherwise reasonable person with a business background?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U232	Thank you. I really do not understand why some investments were not made when the construction market was low, people did not have jobs, many had to go to work in Finland, so families broke up. I can't tell you which solution is more irresponsible here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U233	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U234	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As an entrepreneur, you certainly know that liabilities, i.e. debts, do not give the company a full picture of the situation. It is also important what the company's assets are. If we now look at state assets and state liabilities, we will see that, although debt has slowly started to decline, the decline in assets has been so rapid that net liabilities are growing more than twice. If the same were to happen to companies, creditors would become particularly attentive and particularly evil, so that the loans would not be granted again. In the worst case scenario, the whole situation would be brought under control. How would you comment on the state of your country now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U235	Thank you. I comment as the head of the OECD commented to all finance ministers when there was an informal ECOFIN meeting here in Tallinn: 'Look at Estonia, take the example! Their public debt is less than 10% of GDP, and my recommendation to them is: boost the economy, invest more in the economy! " I am not saying that we need to stimulate the economy too much, just passing on a recommendation from a very influential organisation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U236	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U237	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I will read from the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget for next year that the government's priority is to remove Estonia from economic stagnation. As far as I know, economic stagnation is when economic growth is somewhere close to zero. Growth in the second quarter was 5.7%. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U238	Thank you. I will comment on this in the same way as many entrepreneurs, business owners have commented on it. If, since the previous economic crisis, you have so far been in demand, that is perhaps too harshly said, certainly some will do better if you do not have any real growth, there is no demand, so many people have lost their appetite for doing business. As was the case in the construction sector: many people left Estonia because there was no work. If you look at the shops, the way it is, when the new merchandise comes to the counter, the sale will start immediately with a discount. This has been the real situation of our economy. To a large extent, this has been the case because of the poor economic situation of our neighbours, our export partners. That's why this discussion is wider. When the situation got a little better in the second quarter of this year, when a lot of entrepreneurs got just a little bit of breathing space, they're going to be affected by the talk about boom and the fact that now we're going to cool down, very incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U239	Aivar Sõerd, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U240	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Looking for the mistakes of previous governments is very inappropriate of you. The concept of structural balance did not exist between 2005 and 2007. In nominal terms, we were in surplus at the time, and a very large surplus: 6 billion kroons was in surplus. You're the nominal minus. No one has challenged the nominal surplus at that time, 2.5% of GDP. So I'm asking you, why are you misleading me? Secondly, I ask you this: how did you still say the reference to the budget balance as quickly as possible? If you need to take EUR 26 million out of the reserve next year, in 2019 you already need EUR 220 million. These are the official records of the Ministry of Finance. I assume you're familiar with them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U241	Thank you. Don't get mad at me. I have to answer all kinds of questions here and listen to a story I don't like. But I was talking about the facts. It was not a criticism in that sense. But I guess everyone takes what they want. It was more of an explanation. Today we are talking about a public deficit of 0.25%. We never had those rules, but these figures have been measured, as I have understood, in the past. Those are the facts. That's the thing. Yeah, nominally, the state budget was a plus, that's fine. That's what I've been saying. It's just here all the steam goes to talk about this 0.25% deficit. Unfortunately, that is the case. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U242	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U243	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We're taking two jobs: a prison guard and a nursing home employee. In the public service review, your colleague, Aab, outlined such facts last week. If the average difference between Finnish and Estonian salaries is twice, the highest wage difference is for care workers: three times. The closest to the Finnish level is the prison guards in the public service: the pay gap 1.3 times. By the way, even in poor Latvia, carers are in a better position than ours. Now I read here that the prison guards' wages will rise by 1.9% next year. They are already close to Finnish level. But how much will the carers, the social welfare workers, who are mostly behind the Finnish wage level rise?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U244	Thank you. The Minister of Finance doesn't pay people's wages. Proposals from the payroll funds to the budget come largely from sectoral ministers. In my opinion, the care workers have gained 4.5% of the payroll. I think growth is in this order of magnitude. I really don't know the details, that's what the Minister of State has to ask. If you wish, the answer can be sent to you in writing later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U245	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U246	Thank you. Interesting, but it's sad to hear you. You think you just have to fill the room with words, but every word you say shows you don't know exactly what you're talking about. Such random fragments of knowledge create a mess. Please try to define what a structural balance is! Why was it introduced and how does it relate to the balance of different budgets over the last ten years? What does it have to do with assessing the state of previous budgets? And at all, why do you bring these examples from the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U247	Thank you. I'm not going to report the definitions here right now. Everyone can look at them themselves if he doesn't know them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U248	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U249	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! You come from the private sector and I dare to assume that you and your business colleagues have had a lifetime of conversations where you have discussed that too many people are working in the public sector compared to the private sector and that their number of employees should be cut. Now you're a minister. Has your point of view changed? You said here a few decades ago, with a certain degree of satisfaction, that a whole of 2 000 people have been reduced in the public sector. I didn't quite know if you thought it was a little or a lot. Do you now take a different view and think that the public sector could not be cut much more vigorously?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U250	Thank you. Philosophically speaking, it is a good thing to say that it is the over-exploited public sector that is responsible for everything, that people can work more effectively there and so on. If I wasn't in this sector, I had that idea. There are certainly job cuts that can be effective, but I can see that the compositions of the ministries are already relatively optimal and that the internal resources used to raise wages to be competitive on the labour market are running out. I'm seeing problems in the ministries that they used to be strangers to, but which are long-standing in the private sector: it's very difficult to find good employees. At the moment, I see the same concern in the public sector. In summary, there is certainly room for improvement, but in some areas the limit for staff redundancies has reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U251	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U252	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I will continue with the issue raised in the debate on the previous item on the possibility of disposing of land with significant conservation restrictions to the country. Yes, on the basis of the explanatory memorandum to this draft budget, these amounts will increase to 4.1 million next year. In 2015, when we started this operation, it was only EUR 0.8 million in the budget. At the same time, 177 applications have not been processed as of 1 October, which could be satisfied, i.e. the circuma in four years. And it doesn't take into account the fact that these statements are still coming up. Is there a political guarantee that in four years it will really be possible to remove this constitutional barrier?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U253	Thank you. This is an important issue for the government coalition, and from next year's budget we allocated EUR 4.1 million to the acquisition of land subject to conservation restrictions. This will speed this process up and we hope to stay on schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U254	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U255	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister of Finance! Ten years ago, the European Defence Agency (EDA) was set at ministerial level as an objective for Member States to allocate 2% of defence expenditure in the field of defence R &amp; D. This would mean that Estonia could allocate 9.5 million euros from defence expenditure to research and development. Why is the draft state budget law intended to spend only EUR 687000 on defence R &amp; D, which is more than ten times less than the EDA target?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U256	Thank you. I can't answer that question. I can simply say that we will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs and send you this answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U257	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U258	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In the debate on the previous item, you said that excise increases have crossed the line. Since the verbatim report maybe in 10 or 20 years, I'll ask you again. As regards revenue from the state budget, it is stated that excise duties on alcohol will be more than 43.6%, equivalent to approximately EUR 100 million. The actual purchase behaviour and great sympathy for Latvia make it very sceptical about its receipt. The paradox is that the Government of the Republic actually aims to reduce drinking in Estonia. You seem to be such a shorthanded realist today. Would you give an estimate of the amount of this excise duty that could be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U259	Thank you. As far as I understand these forecasts, the budgetary impact of border trade in 2017 is estimated at EUR 31 million. I'm sorry, this number is about fuel purchases! The tax money we miss out on because of border trade is also worth VAT in 2017 is 53 million euros and it is estimated at 74 million euros in 2018. At the same time, tax receipts are expected to increase at the same time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U260	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U261	Thank you, President of the sitting. Very honorable Minister! In your previous reply, you indicated that I was upset about taking out superdividends. I just wanted to understand this connection: if the economy is growing and revenue is growing, then we could use the revenue to replenish the reserves. Wouldn't it have been wise for the government to reserve these super-dividends? Plus, it's kind of like a cacophony in this hall. Your honourable colleague, Urve Palo, said here when he commented that the EAS money for greening houses is out, that we cannot put more money in it because there is a boom in construction. From your mouth, I hear there's no boom in construction. Which one of you is lying or who is incompetent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U262	Thank you. There's been a rise in prices in the building. But I talked in general. If we look at the longer economic cycle, we cannot talk about the boom. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U263	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U264	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! I listen to you and I wonder. In your previous reply, you claimed that we did not have a boom, although most analysts say that it is still going very strongly. But I don't want to talk about it. I hope that you will now answer my question - you did not answer the previous question. My question was not about debt, but about assets, or reserves, which are planned to decline very quickly. When this happens in companies, everyone gets worried. If the asset side of your balance sheet falls rapidly, it is very risky. As an entrepreneur, you should know that. Why do you accept such a rapid decline in assets for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U265	Thank you. I would point out that the stabilisation reserve is growing and the liquidity reserve is being used for current financial management. Yeah, in that sense, you're right. I don't have anything to add.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U266	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The fact that Estonian researchers are bringing European money to Estonia in the framework of projects is actually possible because 20 or 25 years ago the right decisions were made. But I certainly do not agree with you that next year's budget reflects the priority of research and development. Please specify the specific levers or measures that will prove that R &amp; D will also be one of the government's priorities next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U268	Thank you for your question. As I said, one of the priorities of our government is research development, and research received EUR 14.9 million in the 2018 budget. I really don't know in detail how they use it. This would have been a good opportunity for you to ask the Minister for Enterprise when you had a meeting with him. But in any case, it's a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U269	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U270	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I saw that on 27 September the government approved the state budget for the coming year with an explanatory memorandum saying that the priority of the state budget is to remove Estonia from economic stagnation. I am still asking: does the government believe that growth of 5.7% is an economic stagnation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U271	Thank you. I'm sure it isn't. Perhaps the situation that existed before that could be regarded as a halt.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U272	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U273	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about the health insurance business. The government has taken a very important and major step towards channelling additional funds for non-working pensioners into the health insurance fund through the state budget. Next year, the revenue should be EUR 89 million. When we read the budget explanatory statement, we realise that EUR 36.78 million will be added. It is very clear that this is extra money. My question is this: if the additional revenue is estimated to be 89 million, but the budget of the Health Insurance Fund reaches 36.78, which budget line is the rest of the money on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U274	Thank you. In 2018, the state will pay an additional EUR 91.3 million to the Health Insurance Fund's budget, which represents 7% of the pension for non-employed old-age pensioners. With the additional income, the Health Insurance Fund will have to cover part of the services financed so far by the state budget, amounting to EUR 54.56 million. They are then an ambulance service, dental care allowance, additional medical allowance, replacement allowance for family doctors, reimbursement of the costs of infertility treatment. The services were decided to be transferred to the health insurance fund to reduce the fragmentation of the health system and increase efficiency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U275	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U276	Honourable waitress! On September 28th at 12:29 p.m., a message came to the news. The Ministry of Finance said that the amount of expenditure and investment in the new budget was EUR 10.6 billion, the amount of revenue was EUR 10.3 billion. As far as I'm concerned, it's 300 million. At the same time, the Minister of Finance says that the nominal minus is 36 million. It's ten times the difference! Could it be that the Minister of Finance is having problems with arithmetic? How could this happen? That's a ten-fold difference between 300 and 30! In fact, these are your own ministry, your own numbers. I'm not taking them out of the ceiling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U277	Thank you. I guess I had the same questions myself, and I understand they've been asked before in this room. But the difference is that the structural balance of the state budget, as required by the state budget law, and as calculated by the European Commission and Statistics Estonia, will be less than 0.25% of GDP next year. According to the law, we also monitor the balance of the government sector, not just the state budget. The state, municipalities, the health insurance fund and the unemployment fund and other balances are added together. In addition, differences arise due to differences in methodologies: the rules underlying the state budget and the methodology used by Statistics Estonia to assess the budgetary balance are slightly different. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U278	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U279	Thank you. In fact, it's pretty startling that you can't define a structural balance, and with all your answers, you're proving that you really don't understand why such an indicator is in use at all. I will try to ask you, using your own vocabulary: how would you define the vigorous cooling of the economy, which you said was not the right time to do so? And how does it relate to the opinion of the Chairman of the Board that you are pouring gasoline into the fire? Is this the vigorous cooling that is not yet the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U280	Thank you. This gap is assessed in structural balance. The Ministry of Finance is currently assuming that we are essentially close to balance and slightly above sustainable levels. In fact, the assessment of the economic situation in previous years also depends on this potential. We don't really know where we are on this road today. A few years later, it may be found that our potential was greater. Maybe this potential will be increased afterwards, and that means that we actually didn't have a structural minus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U281	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U282	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! Reading the explanatory memorandum to the draft state budget for recent years, we see, for the most part, that salaries in ministries and their agencies are rising by around 7%. You may have mentioned that they have not risen for a long time, but they can be found anywhere. I had both the explanatory notes on the table, put them out of the way. But the point is, I think something's wrong with our planning. We have vacancies, and this will increase wages, increase management costs. After all, it has become clear that there are constant vacancies in ministries and that they are kept to raise wages. What do you think? Something's wrong. When I was running a state budget institution in my day, there was no way I could have moved anything from the other expenditure box to the salary box.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U283	Thank you. Well, you're right about that, there's a chance, there's such a limp. There are payroll funds, and within them, there is an increase in wages. But this limp has been dwindling over the years, and the reserves for which good people can raise their wages are gone. This opportunity is disappearing. That is why 2.5% of the payroll fund has been increased across the country today. Ministers can think about who to raise a higher salary within this payroll in their field and who to lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U284	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U285	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! Please, let's talk a little bit about RKAS, State Real Estate AS. It was some time ago to read in press releases that it was discussed whether it should necessarily be a company or whether it would be in some other legal form. The National Audit Office has also drawn attention to this issue. It has been discussed that these costs should not continue to increase. But if you browse the budget, it turns out, for almost every ministry, that the resources for the RKAS are growing. What is the state of play in the analysis of the ICAS and what is the future of this institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U286	Thank you. This topic is more part of the work of my colleague Jaak Aab. There may indeed be a difference that, since so far there have been no investment costs in the running costs of some ministries, they have not seen the depreciation figure, it has the impression that the costs are very low. But now the RKAS is going to know the real costs, and it might seem startling to some people. However, it should reflect the real picture. RAKAS is concentrated with the aim of increasing efficiency so that these costs are not overexploited.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U287	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U288	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I have a question in the field of culture. I will read in the explanatory memorandum that in 2018 a programme will be launched to support the organisation of international cultural and sporting events with significant economic impact. It is certainly very welcome and long-awaited support. But what exactly does that mean? A total of EUR 2 million has been planned. It's a very large, big number of money, especially for culture. For example, is this an international event, which will take place next summer in Estonia, and to which 3 500 visitors from abroad will also receive support under this measure?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U289	Thank you. As Minister of Finance, I do not decide who will be supported under this measure. The purpose of this measure has been to enable large events to be organised in Estonia, the organisation of which is very costly, but which, on the other hand, bring the Estonian economy a direct income. This measure will be assessed separately by the Commission, which will analyse whether this project will generate approximately one-and-a-half times more revenue to the state budget than the cost involved. It's like this framework. The concept is now being developed, or it has already been developed, I do not know exactly what will be the basis for the exact assessment. If a project like this happens, it's very good. At least this possibility will be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U290	Please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U291	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In the debate on the previous point, and also in the answer now, you have tried to give the impression that you are very concerned about the whole tax life, about writing the balance of the budget in the chimney, about massive spending in good times, which the government under the leadership of the Central Party has set in motion. But you are the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia. You should be the most influential, most important direction and designer of taxation and financial policy in general. My question is: what have you done as one of the most influential members of the government? What have you done, or what do you intend to do, to reverse these very worrying trends, which you yourself have admitted, and to refocus our monetary policy on normal tracks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U292	Thank you. I have said that public finances are in very good order, there is no problem here. Maybe the problem is excise policy. Have the excise rises gone too far? I think it's coming up, or it's coming up. But we are monitoring this situation, and if we see that there is no revenue from the raising of excise duties, it is time to do something about it, and we will certainly do something about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U293	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U294	Thank you, Minister. I will come back to the previous question once again. You said that this 7% for non-working pensioners is EUR 91 million and that, as a result of the consolidation of supplementary health care services, the Health Insurance Fund will also have to pay for the things you called ambulances, infertility care, dental care for persons with deep disabilities, etc., and that it will be taken out of that 91 million. I'm sorry, but these costs are already being incurred. Yeah, not directly from the Health Insurance Fund's budget, but from the Health Development Institute's budget, from the Health Board's budget, etc. Therefore, these amounts should already be included in the state budget. My question is: if this money is taken out of an additional 91 million, which lines is the remaining 55 million, which should already exist this year and last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U295	Perhaps I will specify that in 2018 the services will be transferred from the state budget to the health insurance fund. I'll give you the numbers, then maybe you'll understand better. The ambulance will be transferred and will receive 37,68 million, dental care allowance of 12 million, additional medical benefits of 3 million, compensation for infertility treatment costs of 1.62 million, replacement fee for family doctors of 0.22 million, provision of medical long-distance medical consultation of seafarers around the clock on board the ship, support for the work of the consilium of HIV and AIDS treatment, and guaranteeing the provision of dental care of adults with deep mental impairment with general anaesthesia of 0.1 million euros. In addition, the sickness fund will have an additional EUR 34 million, which it can spend on what it needs to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U296	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U297	Dear Minister, When you answered both me and a couple of later questioners, I realized that'structural balance' is a concept that if some numbers don't add up, etc., say'structural balance', and again it's copper. When philosophy is taught, there is one method. If you want to find out if a student understood a philosophical system, you'll tell him to explain it to me in his own words. If you understood Hegel, tell me your words about Hegel's philosophy. Now I'm going to ask you a test question. I am afraid that dialogue between us has not even begun, because we do not understand each other. What is the structural balance? Say it in your own words! You said before you weren't gonna give me a definition. I know what structural balance is, and it can be explained very simply. Please, in terms of control, say in your own words what a structural balance is. No foreign words, just like that. What is he?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U298	Economic cyclicality and one-off temporary costs are deducted from the nominal position.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U299	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U300	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I was surprised to see that even though the county governments have been liquidated, their payroll will grow by 4% next year. Is that a finger? The second question is that the salary fund of the Estonian National Museum will grow by 17% (one of the largest increases) next year, while the rescuers will only grow by 2.5%. Is it now that all the proposals that ministers make are simply put together alongside the Ministry of Finance, or is someone looking at the whole picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U301	Thank you. The whole picture will certainly be viewed, and these wage increases have been approved by the government. But, as I said, the main decision-maker, the director, which is the priority areas that most require wage increases, is still the minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U302	Jüri Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U303	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You're saying public finances are in good shape. Generally speaking, this has to be accepted, but one indicator of this situation is the public debt burden. When the Prime Minister handed over the draft State Budget Act 2018 in this remote area, he said that the government was planning to reduce this debt burden. It's also in the explanatory memorandum. My question is this: what actions are planned to reduce the debt burden on the government sector next year and the following year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U304	Thank you. It is very simple: not to spend so much. As I have said, when the coalition agreed in the country's budget strategy that the budget would reach a balance in 2021, I have set the target that, given the improved economic situation, the budget should be balanced by 2020.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U305	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U306	Thank you. Good Thomas! I've known you for years, above all, as a reasonable man and a successful entrepreneur. However, looking at this budget and its structure, unfortunately, it does not seem to reflect a very sustainable approach in the long term. If for a moment you were to draw parallels with your company and make up this budget, what mistakes would you definitely avoid in this budget if you had to adapt it to your company?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U307	Thank you for an interesting question. I'm the Minister of Finance in the Coalition with three partners. When I put together this budget as Minister for Finance, I certainly set out to improve the budgetary position by 0.5% of GDP per year, and I am pleased that we did so in the coalition. But it is very difficult to compare private companies and the public sector. There are very many people in the public sector who cannot take care of themselves. And this state budget will take care of them. At the same time, this state budget must guarantee companies a stable environment in which businesses want to operate, where they want to pay taxes. A balance must be found here. And right now we are very close to this balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U308	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U309	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! If the budget of a company cannot be compared to the drawing up of this budget, I ask you this question: how do you compare it with the day-to-day management of your family? If a family has some reserves and wages are okay and no one has lost a job, is it reasonable to spend all the reserves you've collected? Is it reasonable to live beyond your means in a normal family? Would you use your wallet in the same way? If a bunch of zeros are taken away from the end of the budget and try to look at this wallet as its contents are counted in thousands of euros, not millions or even billions, then how do you think it is reasonable to use the contents of the national wallet as the person responsible for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U310	Thank you. If I have a family father to choose if I'm gonna take a little loan to build, I'm gonna make arrangements for living so that my family has a decent place to live, so I'm gonna do it. There are certainly those to whom it does not matter. There are all kinds of people. But I would do it without compromising the sustainability of the family budget. Maybe that's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U311	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U312	Thank you. Dear Minister, Sustainability is indeed a good keyword that should be guided. But I come back to my question of reducing the debt burden. While debt has so far been reduced at the expense of local governments and other public institutions, in future, the government plans to reduce government debt as a percentage of the budget as a result of an increase in the budget. But does the government plan any action to actually reduce the debt burden, or does it simply allow it to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U313	Thank you. Yes, the government certainly has a plan to reduce the debt burden, and already in 2020 the budget is balanced according to current knowledge and figures. I also want to say that, in fact, the Treasury will pay back the loan next year instead of borrowing more. That's 17 million. I think these are positive signs, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U314	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U315	Thank you. More generally, it is difficult to make a positive assessment of this budget, precisely because we are actually in a position where we even have a structural deficit. Listening to the messages you're sending to the hall today, I've understood all the positive messages. It is now possible to find 10 billion positive messages from each budget. However, the negative message is still that this budget is a budget for overcapacities. This budget is characterised by the draining of reserves and the main keywords of the entire budget are certainly bluffing with revenue. Why don't you give me a number on how much money will be taken from the reserves next year? And in answer to the previous question, you said no more credit. I will ask you, just in case: will you confirm that next year the Republic of Estonia will not borrow more in the identity of the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U316	The central government or the Treasury shall not take up any further loans. I can't speak here on behalf of local governments, and I can't speak on behalf of state foundations. That's where the deficit comes from, to a large extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U317	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U318	What else was there? [[Something they say in the hall.]] Ah, reserves! It's kind of hard to say. As I mentioned earlier, the stability reserve is growing and the liquidity reserve is decreasing as necessary. This will, in fact, only be clear in 2019 as to how much expenditure was spent. It was around 70 million, maybe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U319	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U320	Thank you. The independent Eesti Pank and the Governor of the Bank, as well as the Fiscal Council at the Bank, have said that in the conditions of economic growth, the budget should be drawn up with a surplus. With what arguments do you disprove the position of these two institutions and still make a budget in deficit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U321	Thank you. The State Budget Act allows for a deficit of 0.5% with a structural deficit. We've halved it. However, Eesti Pank must assess the budget very conservatively and make such recommendations. It's been done all along. Once again, this budget is a budget that is very close to balance: if we look at the volume of more than EUR 10 billion, this 0.25% structural deficit could turn into a surplus in a few years' time, if assessed ex post.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U322	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U323	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! You're an old sailor, and you're happy to use sailing terminology. I remembered that I once had a sailor friend who compared sailing to the fact that it might as well go into a cold shower and tear up 500-kroons. A little of this budget is similar to just letting the money fly and the water flies, but we don't know where. I am not such an advocate of anti-credit fundamentalism. I myself think that it is possible to borrow if there is a good investment that really contributes to economic growth. But I don't see it in this budget. The city hall has already been discussed. The city hall is like a bombhole where you can stay and bury money. It doesn't make any sense. The salaries of schoolteachers are beautiful, fantastic idea, but it is not an investment, it is a fixed cost. I want to ask you for help. Tell me about the strategic investments you are making to actually sink the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U324	Thank you. I'm sure no one's gonna blow the budget. If you use the sailing analogy, it's often the case that you pick one side that looks like you get beat up, but you actually win. Once again, this budget is a good budget. Really, you're criticizing that it's over-exploited that there are wrong costs here. But we have handed this budget over to the Riigikogu and you have the opportunity to bring these seats out and decide together what to do with them. Investments, some of them read out, are as follows. Economics and transport 467 million (this major number does not say anything), national defence just 237 million, rural areas 92,7. But maybe I'll talk a little bit easier. These strategic investments, which are why we are actually going to the minus, either because of them or because of some other cost, which is everyone's own estimate, are as follows: renovation of Tallinn's railways to raise the speed of trains to 5 million, transit routes to 9 million, Tapa-Narva railway to move up to 8,5 million, reconstruction of Kärdla and Pärnu airport to increase the speed of trains to 3,7 million, broadband internet to 10 million, defence investment programme to 10 million, rental homes to 2,5 million and Haapsalu railway to the first stage of 8 million. In total, $67.7 million will be taken from the list I read here. We have a structural deficit of around 61 million. If it wasn't here, you could say that the budget is structurally balanced, but if we cancel half of that amount, we're nominally balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U325	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U326	Thank you! My previous question was that Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council are of a different opinion. They believe that a budget with a surplus should be made. You replied that the law allows for a deficit. Yes, the law allows. But the logic of the law is that if the economy is experiencing more difficult times, it makes sense to go to a deficit of up to 0.5%, not at a time when the economy is growing by 5,7 or 6% a year. That's the logic! Your point is not an argument to go against the fiscal council and against Eesti Pank. I'll ask you this way. I understand that the IRL is alone in the government as at least a party on paper. Are you meeting some of the demands of the Socialists and the Centre Party that the budget is in deficit? Give an example!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U327	Thank you. I just read a lot of investments to Valdo. But there are different players in the coalition. After all, we have all been in different coalitions, including opposition. And we have always wondered, in opposition, why the coalition, such as the Reform Party, with whom we have also gone to the coalition, is spending such a strange amount of money. The budget is a compromise. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U328	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U329	President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! Still enough for the previous question. You brought some kind of investment in the answer. Sounded a little like a screw and nut thing: a little piece of railroad over here and the other one over there. Well, it's okay to go to the country to see Grandma, but maybe it doesn't do much for economic growth. There is another way of thinking. Every theorist you find in the world says that lowering the tax burden will boost the economy. Haven't you thought about that? Instead of banging trees in this way, the tax burden could be reduced in Estonia. Rather, it is with it that we could perhaps have long-term, long-term growth. Not by building a couple of tracks here and there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U330	Thank you. The observation is correct. Well, these have been the challenges of different coalitions. The current situation is that the tax burden will not increase, but will remain at the same level over the years. I am particularly pleased that, if everyone has spoken for a very long time, that labour taxes need to be reduced and that this is our priority, but basically no one has taken any strenuous steps in this direction, the current coalition has raised the tax-free rate to EUR 500. This will give money to those who receive low and medium wages and reduce labour costs in the sector where it is most needed. This is a very positive step and also an expensive one. This is actually the source of some financial problems, as it will cost nearly EUR 160 million from the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U331	Thank you, Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste! The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U332	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee started to process the state budget for the following year on 26 September. This bill was presented by the Minister for Finance, who told us about the budgetary orientations. But before the first reading, we discussed the state budget further. On 9, 10 and 17 October, Jaak Aab, Minister of State Administration, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Social Protection Kaia Iva, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, Minister of Internal Affairs Andres Anvelt and Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm participated. Probably because Estonia currently holds the Presidency of the European Union, the occupancy of ministers is enormous, so the remaining six ministers will come before us after the first reading. I'm sure we'll meet them, too. What did you talk about? After introducing the state budget, which the Minister did here today, he was asked 12 questions. Six of them were the same as the one that has been sounded in this Chamber today: the percentage of national defence expenditure on GDP, the need to stimulate the economy, etc. The Board's assessment, the observations of the Governor of Eesti Pank, the reserves, of course, and also the difference in the cost-benefits of the state budget were also asked. I'm not going to repeat these questions. The answers were more or less the same as here today. But now the rest of the questions. Question: is EUR 0.2 million in the budget from the draft amending pending packaging excise duty, which bears the number 460? Answer: Additional receipts are calculated on the basis of the current packaging excise legislation. The amending bill on excise duties on packaging 460, when it becomes a law, will not enter into force next year, the same can be said about the tax on sweetened beverages. Question: how much will the income from bank income tax advance next year? Answer: EUR 25 million in size. Question: to what extent does the euro support disappear? Answer: The allocation of euro money in the new period has not yet been precisely agreed. Certain corrections will come in respect of cohesion policy. We know there's going to be more Rail Baltic support. They asked about the financing of the renovation of the city hall. The answer was that the renovation was postponed. Question: what will be the dividend income of the Port of Tallinn next year? Answer: EUR 150 million. The financial surplus of the unemployment fund was also examined. Answer: The surplus of the unemployment fund was EUR 37 million in 2016. This year's budgetary position is influenced by the increase in expenditure in the unemployment fund, which comes mainly from additional staff and economic costs. The expected surplus this year is EUR 22 million. Questions were put to all ministers, to whom more, to whom less. The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps made a presentation. I think I need to apologize to you. When I introduced the same thing in my group today, it took me 40 minutes. That means I can't give you the full picture. For some ministers it is two pages, for some ministers it is 12 pages. I can't read all this, but some of the key points. For example, the Ministry of Education and Research has such figures: the budget will amount to EUR 965.5 million next year, of which 350 million will be education support for local governments. Compared to 2017, the budget for the area of government has increased by more than 16%, i.e. by some 135 million euros. The Minister of Education and Research spoke about the increase in teachers' salaries. To this end, 48 million have been allocated from the budget and the minimum teacher's salary will be increased to EUR 1150, which should mean that the average salary will increase to EUR 1380 per month. This represents an increase of around 9.5% compared to July this year. 12 million euros have been earmarked for the increase in the pay of kindergarten teachers and their motivation programme. The aim is to achieve the result next year that the kindergarten teacher or teacher has a salary of 85% of the teacher's minimum wage. Mrs Reps was asked about the funding of students with special educational needs. The answer was that 75% of children with special needs of different degrees study in mainstream schools. If there are several such students in the class, support is sufficient if they are alone, then their support is not sufficient. Draft Act 519 amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and related amendments to other laws, which is currently under the procedure of the Riigikogu, proposes to issue grants on a bounty basis and is financed both in the form of education support and in the form of operating grants. In total, 176 teachers from all over Estonia are needed for students with special needs. A new vocational education financing scheme was asked about. The answer was that it would follow the financing model for higher education and that an additional EUR 3.3 million would be allocated to the existing vocational education base. It is a desire to harmonise certain things, but it is not done at the expense of others. They also asked about state secondary schools: where they are to be opened, how many and where they will be opened next year. The answer was that there would be three state secondary schools. By now, all counties have shown interest and are waiting. There is EUR 100 million for this. So, on: Ministers of the Ministry of Social Affairs Jevgeni Ossinovski and Kaia Iva. Ossinovski had a very long presentation, 30 minutes, but the main points would be that the Ministry of Social Affairs' revenue would increase by more than 19%, costs by more than 16%. It's a very big growth. The sums going to the health insurance fund are growing, but the Minister of Finance has already talked about this quite thoroughly. The Minister argued that the additional funds provide the possibility of shortening treatment queues, improving access to healthcare, the continuity and quality of care by broadening the income base of the Health Insurance Fund. We were talking about the drug allowance and the vaccination. In addition, Mr Ossinovski was asked about the budgetary impact on shortening treatment queues and access to healthcare. He had already spoken of that, and that was exactly what the answer sounded like. They wanted to know what decisions were made about the Foundation's Gifted Life. The Minister said that he has already said that Estonia does not have enough resources and many things cannot be provided by the Health Insurance Fund. The rise in the price of new medicines is global. He pointed out that over the past 25 years, the average cost of cancer treatment in one month has risen from about $100 to $10,000. We do not have a pan-European system for negotiating with pharmaceutical companies, as the treaties do not give this competence to the European Union. Another question was asked about the allocation of additional money for personal medicine. The answer was that this money was intended to continue the gene risk assessment programme. There was also an interest in cooperation between ministries and other authorities. The answer was that when financing the Gambling Tax Board, the Ministry of Education and Research cooperates with the University of Tartu movement lab to make the school environment more mobile. Two questions were put to Ms Iva, Minister for Social Protection. Firstly, the Social Insurance Board was asked about the information system SKIAS2. The answer was that the SKIAIS1 works and also the SKIAIS2 works, it is necessary to specify some details in order for everything to be compatible. The second question was the change in the level of Paralympic support. According to the Minister, the Government of the Republic decided to increase the Paralympic subsidy rate to EUR 1182 per month in the state budget for the following year. In 2017, this amount will be EUR 650, so it will almost double. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, also attended the Commission. I would like to point out from his presentation that local governments' incomes will increase by around 12% next year and costs by around 10%, and both sides will exceed EUR 2 billion next year. The Equalisation and Support Fund will have a total of EUR 489 million next year, which is 21% more than this year. There were three questions for Jaak Aab. The nature of the state reform was asked. Is there an overview of how many institutions in Estonia are involved in the implementation of state reform? Is his office an office that could manage this big picture? The answer was yes. They were recently with Ivari Padar, who is the chairman of the State Reform Problem Committee, reporting before the National Reform Radar College. Four and one scored there: the implementation of the administrative-territorial reform was assessed by four, and they received one for the promotion of the state reform. Another question was asked about the Setomaa development programme and the Peipsiveere programme. The Minister's reply revealed that these are regional programmes for rural development and are financed from the budget of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. In addition, this programme also includes Võru and Mulgimaa development grants. Have any proposals been made to reduce the number of employees in the central government? The answer was to monitor the relationship between the working age population and the official body. The aim is not to set quotas. In many administrative areas, the number of employees has already fallen due to the introduction of new technologies and consolidation of services. Next came Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. He was mainly talking about the government's support for the establishment of the Institute of Constitutional Law. This is important in terms of public law, constitutional law and the interpretation of national science. As a cooperation project this is done with the University of Tartu, it is a dedicated financial allocation. That was the answer to one question. When asked about the salary increase, the answer was that in his reign wages rise by 2.5%. And not so that everyone, but above all those whose wages are lower. Another question was the financing of the Estonian Institute of Memory. The answer was that the Memory Institute was previously active at the Office of the President, and now it is in the area of the Ministry of Justice's administration and is doing research on recent history there. Previously, the basic funding was EUR 300000, now this amount is increasing. Minister of the Interior Anvelt spoke extensively about his government. A total of 45 people were to be employed, and it would take EUR 5.9 million. Further development of the eastern border will take place, with EUR 17 million from the reserve planned next year. When it came to the question of why it was the reserve, the answer was that this was still decided during the previous government. The biggest investment is the acquisition of a pollution monitoring aircraft and a ship for the recovery of pollution, with the support of the European Union Cohesion Fund, in order to ensure marine pollution control capabilities. The total investment is 35 million. The question was again about the wage increase, which is going to be 4.1% on average. But in order for it to correspond to the average rise in Estonia over the last six years, it should be 5 to 6%. However, 4.5% also contributes greatly. Another question was the construction of Narva College: how is it financed, why in one year is there much less money than in the next two? Well, it's clear: next year will be the design and work will be started, but then two years in a row will be the major construction work. That's 14 million. The Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme mentioned that EUR 174 million will be disbursed next year as part of the rural development plan, of which 26 million will be Estonian co-financing, 23 million will be received from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, and 5 million will be Estonian co-financing. Direct payments to agricultural workers will be 10 million larger next year than in the current year: 133 million and more, practically 134 million. Tarmo Tamme was asked what about food security. The answer was that for some foodstuffs security is twice guaranteed, but for some a little less, for example, only 70% for pork. Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U333	I can't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U334	Okay, I can't. Tarmo Tamm was the last minister we met, and we'll meet the rest a little later. And now the procedural decisions: to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur, the first reading to be carried out today, namely Wednesday 18 October, the deadline for amendments is 10 working days, i.e. 1 November at 5.15 p.m. Five members of the Commission voted in favour of concluding the first reading, with four against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U335	So, any questions for the waitress? As you might have guessed, it isn't. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U336	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The basic sin of this budget is that, before it was drawn up, the rules for redrafting the budget were made in favour of it and the possibility that the country would survive. And living beyond power is now also discussed by Eesti Pank's assessment of the state, as well as the assessment of the fiscal council. The next sin is that we have this 10 billion people who don't know what he's saying, but he talks all the time. He should have learned in a year that the current government is charged with living for the future and that he is pouring oil into the fire. But he says that it is not the right time for strong economic cooling. What could that possibly mean? It doesn't make sense. He has been told that this excess is detrimental to the growth potential of the Estonian economy. He must be here to confirm that he is supporting economic growth with this budget. A fine socialist slogan in itself and in some kind of sauce customary, but from the mouth of the IRL Minister, in fact, disaster, dilettante and world-view incredible. He says that a balance must be struck as soon as possible. When that chance comes, no clues about it. And not a single clue that's blocking it right now. Is it that there hasn't been an election yet and the government hasn't changed, or is there something else? He also talks about strategic investments. There is, of course, no such concept in the financial economy, but I conclude from the examples that this is concrete, which has no economic justification, but which is politically justified because this concrete goes to a certain electoral area. And then he said it wasn't 2007. I don't know why you had to admit it. No one's messed up the calendar. However, the economic situation is now like the situation in 2005. Following this came the years 2006 and 2007, followed by an economic disaster. As we learned from these mistakes, we have established a structural balance. When I told the Minister that this conversation was so strange, and please define what a structural balance is, he said he wasn't going to define anything. But after an hour, see, he defined it very precisely in response to Igor Gräzin. What's there to deny, the iPads are invented and flashy officials sit even on the balcony where they can give out the cheats. But the fact is, he doesn't understand what rule his government has lifted and what it really means to the economy. He can tell you that the French minister said that we thought that at first, but then it was different. And he repeated it several times. It's not about whether it went any different after that. It is about what kind of knowledge the budget is drawn up, and this budget has not been drawn up with any knowledge. The complaint is also that the Prime Minister repeatedly said that even during the boom, the budget was made in a structural deficit. A thousand times has already been justified, but I repeat, the budget was made according to the figure that was then. It was nominal and the budgets were in surplus. 2007 was 6 billion kroons and 2006 was as much as I remember correctly. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U337	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U338	Thomas Tõnis boasts how strategic he is. But, unfortunately, there is also a duty written in the law that the next governments must cut it all. This is not stated in the law, but it is known that we will cross a certain line where we will still have support from European funds when the next government comes. It is obvious that we are not in such a good economic cycle. We have a triple task ahead of us, plus the obligations imposed on the health insurance fund. And it is said to be sustainable because it is supported by a deficit budget that is unsustainable. We have a quadruple burden on the next governments, but the Minister of Finance is proud because he doesn't understand what he's saying. The 2014 budget, which was set up here, was already made on the basis of a new indicator. This was not the first year, but the budget was made with a structural surplus. And it's still strange to blame it now. We made nominal surpluses when the nominal figure was set, and we made structural surpluses when the objective was structural balance. I'd like you to clear that up for me next time. I hope you don't have that next time. It is also strange how the phrase 'I as an entrepreneur' in the Commission always sounds. One mayor candidate used the expression 'I' as a sportsman' all the time. I'm glad we didn't hear that. But basically, the minister relies on some village talk instead of relying on experts. The building doesn't want to hear that the country's gonna stick together. And the trade is so hard to sell, we don't want to hear about it! 'I was talking to the entrepreneurs. ' Dear man, you are not the chairman of the plan committee. It is up to you to keep public finances in order and not to heat up the economy at the wrong time. And there's been a mistake. It's a mistake to listen to the wrong people. And the economy is not in stagnation right now. There has always been an increase in budget, nominal economy and people's incomes of approximately 5% per year. There is no stagnation in that sense. But the current situation is a lottery win. It is not for the winner of the lottery to go and empty out the bank account and start a party. It is wiser to put the amount of lottery winning aside, at least partially, or buy something constructive with it. But there's nothing practical about it being bought, and the bank account will be emptied for the next government. In summary, the economic picture described by the Minister of Finance is that Liudi pišut, nam prodavat nado, nam stroit nado. It's like Mikhail Gorbachev talking about a Congressional remote. But to understand who was really responsible for what I didn't get. It would be worth recording this speech and recording the moment when the minister showed that he did not know what the figure was for next year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U339	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Mikhail Stalnukhin, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U340	Thank you. One conclusion can be drawn from the precedent that the Russian language may still be used. I sometimes suffer in the remote, looking for the right word to translate my inner tongue, but right now, Jürgen used it so boldly. Let's set a precedent for this, shall we? I'd be delighted!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U341	I have a request that you and Jürgen make an effort to speak Estonian. Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U342	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, This is not a request, it is an urgent requirement: I think we must all speak in Estonian here. However, when I come to the budget, I would like to point out that it is the case with the budget that there has probably not been as good a time to be in the government and the Minister of Finance as it is now. There has been no such time in Estonia for at least 10 years. After all, this is Santa's budget: the economy is growing, the tax receipts are fairy tale and this money can be distributed to everyone. But even though quite a lot of money can be distributed to everyone, they still share more than there is, maybe they'll let the budget down. It is understandable, especially in the case of the left-wing government, that people think it is the government's job to take money away from people and then share it back to them in a little smaller amounts and to thank them for giving it back. Unfortunately, it's short-sighted. What should we do as a country, and what should the government do now? We should use this good time to restructure the economy and our tax receipts. I'm about to start cutting excise duty. Estonia's current excise policy is completely insane and harmful to the state. We carry money to Latvia with suitcases and our tax receipts, which go to Latvia and which we do not have, are two or even three times as much as our budget is minus. In this way, it is completely incomprehensible how it is possible to continue this policy, as it is now. The whole excise duty on fuel, especially diesel excise and alcohol excise policy, is just harmful to Estonia. I recall that when VAT was raised during the previous economic crisis, it was promised that it would be brought back when life would get better. Life has gotten so much better, we have reached the boom, but unfortunately no one is talking about cutting VAT to 18%. This is a situation that will inevitably lead to the government's small room for manoeuvre when the next economic cooling or steep fall comes. The current situation should be used to improve our competitiveness. So, we have higher gas excises than Latvia or Poland, we have higher electricity excises than we should have, and instead of giving people money and buying votes for the next election for this money, taxes should be lowered, so that the competitiveness of the Estonian economy is better, that if the next economic cooling comes, Estonia is ready to do so, so that the big fall will not happen. I would also like to remind you that, at the beginning of the next decade, large euro subsidies will disappear, which means that less money will have to be managed anyway. Now is just the time to practice yourself less, not spend more. But all this talk is for deaf ears, it doesn't cost anything. I was listening here to the Minister of Finance say that we are at first reading, make improvements for second reading. Well, I don't have a lot of experience in the Riigikogu, but I have the feeling that there may never have been such an accident that the opposition's proposals are taken away from the state budget or that something more will be voted into the draft at second reading. There's no roofing money. So the bill is what the government wants it to be, and the Riigikogu is a rubber stamp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U343	On behalf of the Kersti Sarapuu Central Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U344	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, After almost a year in government, we can say that the state's costs and revenues are starting to look like our coalition. By our face, I mean a clear direction towards increasing the well-being of the Estonian people. For the first time, the state's revenue and expenditure will exceed the 10 billion limit next year. At the same time, government debt will decrease. Contrary to what opposition politicians have claimed, our tax burden will not increase either, remaining stable between 34% and 35% in the next few years. In the state budget strategy, we set out four important priorities: promoting economic growth in Estonia, increasing population numbers, strengthening security and increasing the well-being and cohesion of society. I am pleased to note that this state budget makes a strong contribution to these priorities. Speaking about the content of the budget, I would like to mention three keywords: reform of the tax-free minimum, increasing the income base of local governments and health care reform. In order to increase the coherence of our society and reduce inequalities, a higher rate of income tax-free minimum will apply from next year, resulting in an increase of 64 euros for those earning the lowest and average salary on the pay day. This is EUR 768 per year, which is certainly a considerable amount for many people. At the same time, self-employed local authorities are getting their strength back into oblivion for years. In 2018 the government has decided to increase their income tax share and the income from the Equalisation Fund without adding specific tasks to the municipalities. That's 30 million euros. Thanks to this money, local governments will be able to better organise local life and offer quality services to their residents. The health sector has also long awaited solutions and additional money. Over the next four years, the government has planned to channel more than €200 million in additional money to health care, with €34 million next year. Following this step, we will be able to improve access to medical care and shorten treatment queues. These three key points in the state budget are like guides that show where we are headed. It is very important to point out the reduction in the cost of medicines for next year's national accounts. The new system provides for the payment of an additional compensation of 50% for people whose expenses for a preferential medicine range from EUR 100 to EUR 300 and 90% for those whose expenses exceed EUR 300. The increase in the average pension from EUR 416 to EUR 442 will also bring relief to the elderly next year. In order for our education to develop just as well, the state budget for next year provides for a continuing increase in teachers' salary, which is an additional EUR 36 million in the Ministry of Education and Research budget. The new minimum wage for teachers is EUR 1150 and the average salary is EUR 1380. In the following year, day-care teachers will also receive an additional EUR 13.5 million from the state through municipalities. It is also important to highlight security measures. The payroll fund will be increased to raise staff. The state budget for 2018 will increase 4.5% of the payroll fund for workers in this field, such as police officers, rescuers and customs officials. Next year, the number of regional constables will increase in rural areas, with an additional EUR 2 million foreseen. With pride, I can say that in next year's state budget, we have also received the support of the Chernobyl veterans on the subject of a long-awaited group. The support of the repressed will increase from EUR 192 to EUR 230. The circle of people receiving support is also expanding. If in the past only Estonian citizens received support, then now the people living in Estonia who are neither Estonian citizens nor Russian citizens are included in the list of beneficiaries, but were sent from Estonia to eliminate the consequences of the nuclear disaster. This list could be continued for a long time. But the most important thing is that the budget finally serves the well-being of our people. The function of the state is to serve its people, and the state budget must also take our people first and foremost into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U345	Kalvi on behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U346	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, When the budget was transferred here three weeks ago, some colleagues, such as Andres Ammas, but others said that we have not seen much of this budget, and what can we say about it? But now we have been able to study this budget for three weeks, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has been discussing it, and we are a lot smarter than that. I want to highlight some things that the Social Democrats attach great importance to. One thing certainly is the tax reform, the change in tax policy that Kersti Sarapuu was talking about here just before me. We know exactly how much money will be left to people who are less paid now. Of course, in the budget debates that were held, the visit of the politicians of the Reform Party was aggravated by the wearing of a record to see how the coalition would punish the successful. But, good friends of the Reform Party, I don't think there's any basis for such a whirlwind. Those are, in my opinion, empty words. The budget also reflects the second fundamental reform. In fact, the government has decided to channel over 215 million euros into the medical system in the next four years, which will allow for shorter treatment queues and improve the quality of treatment. Let it be said that healthcare will receive EUR 34 million next year. A few words about the rhetoric of the opposition. The opposition's criticism was, is and will be, and it should probably be. But at times, attacking the budget and coalition creates frightening vibrations. Our future is painted in the same dark pictures as yesterday at noon due to the influence of Hurricane Ophelia in Tallinn. The rumor that the government lives because of the past and steals from the future, no villains. The planned structural deficit of 0,25% in the budget does not give rise to such dramatic statements. The budget will reach a balance by 2020. The budget has been prepared responsibly, Estonian finances will be in order in the future. A few words for EKRE's friends. Martin came to the remote and talked about excise duties. Good people of EKRE, I think you know why Finland has such high alcohol excises. The reason is very simple: the average income of these people is very high. And you may also know that the average income of residents in Latvia is a piece smaller than in Estonia, and that is why their excise duty on alcohol is lower. Thus, excise duty on alcohol is clearly dependent on the average income of people. Finns have been driving here all along to buy cheap booze, and you haven't made any trouble of it. Now maybe that's news for you. Think about it! In summary, this is a budget that improves the well-being of our people, brings more balance to society and helps those who have had to go through more narrowly. It is a budget that takes Estonia forward and can meet 2018 with hope. The Social Democrats believe that this is a good budget, which can be further improved in the course of further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U347	Andres Ammas on behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Just in case, three more minutes, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U348	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! It's pretty hard to talk about the budget today. As a result of the work of the two previous speakers, the hall was already in such a devout mood. As my colleague Martin said, it is like Christmas peace or Santa's budget. Anyway, that kind of mood developed in this room, and I'm a little sorry to spoil it. As Mr Jürgen has already said this, and Mr Martin too, I do not know whether there is a need to talk it over again. But as a school papa, I know you're gonna have to tell the students once, twice, three times. And it's not like everyone's gonna figure it out. So if you'll excuse me, I'll repeat some of the thoughts of the previous speaker, hoping that if you speak calmly and slowly several times, maybe you'll understand. The key issue is that this budget is balanced, rather, that this deficit is being let down at a favourable time for the current economy, if, on the contrary, reserves could be raised at a time when, as has been said, EU subsidies will decrease and the worse times in the economy will come. All that has already been said today: eating up reserves, living beyond power, and bluffing with incomes in a strange way, as pointed out by experts from Eesti Pank and the Budget Council. The likely reduction in excise duties has already been said several times today, but the Board also considers that the amount of money collected from corporate income tax has been overestimated. Mr Mikhail said nicely that the budget is a coalition matter, and there is no chance here that the coalition and the opposition would ever agree on anything. It is up to the opposition to vote against. That is probably the case, but it seems to me that we cannot agree on this fundamental issue either in a world-view or in a principle. Not only because some are currently in the coalition and others are currently in opposition. But some people think it's right to live on account of the past and the future, others don't. Thus, from the point of view of the opposition, we will have no choice but to tell the government to tighten your wishes and take back this bill. Try again, maybe you can do it! In our view, these 61 million will not be unwittingly difficult to save in this budget. I think that, as representatives of the opposition, we can show by means of amendments where this money can be saved and prove that it is possible. But I would also like to add a little bit to my colleague Martin or to argue a little bit against him. He said nicely that the opposition's proposals had never been taken into account. Yeah, he's right. They don't count right now. But I looked at yesterday for the interest offered by the Free Party last year and what we proposed for the fallout last year. And I found that a lot of things are strangely realizing now, and that is something we can understand as well. For two years in a row, we have proposed ending the injustice of farmers and paying them direct payments at the maximum rate. Now it's happening. Great! At the same time, yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs revealed the tragic fact that, next to all this great mountain of money, we still lack EUR 0.8 million for beekeepers, so that they are not treated unfairly either compared to beekeepers from Latvia and other countries. I hope that the Ministry of Rural Affairs will raise this problem and itself will heroically solve it before the third reading. It would be nice if this were the case. Indeed, the teacher's salary has been spoken only in the past as a slogan that it must be 120% of the Estonian average. Our proposals in this regard were voted down. Now, however, these salaries are really going to be raised at a higher rate than the general wage race in Estonia. We are pleased that our earlier proposal to raise the pay of cultural workers is now finally taken into account. Last year, the Free Party Group's proposal to provide additional support for hiring support specialists was voted down, and now it is in the budget. At the same time, we are not sure that the maximum use of this money is thought out by the Ministry. We fear that it will bear the customary seal of haste. In addition, in two years, our group has been focusing on buying land with conservation restrictions by the state. At first, we were only nodded along, and now more money is gradually allocated. Unfortunately, in the process of eliminating this order, progress is being made at a step of action, not at all at an adequate pace. Yesterday, the Minister of the Interior was thrilled at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, saying that we are going to have a revolution in the renovation and renovation of heating monsters. Two years earlier, when the Free Party proposed the same thing, it was not a million or 1.5 million euros from nowhere to take it, yet it really saves many lives. Our concern, you know, is the financing of research and development. The budget reflects the will to improve this situation a little bit, but life goes away faster than the government gets there. The base funding will now be increased, but we could lose the capacity to finance new and promising disciplines on a competitive basis. In this area, there is a bit of a 'beak shut and tail open, tail shut and beak open' situation. Science needs a lot more money. What can I do? A little bit of debate with the Minister of Finance touched on this issue, but still: austerity in the public sector is not much to talk about and is not something to be done. It seems to me that there is a huge specialization in government institutions. We see in the Committee on Monetary Affairs how, on each subject, new and new specialists in this area will come before us. All in all, there are enormous numbers of them. And there's a lot of them in the foundations. How much duplication there is in Estonia, we do not know. The public sector is undoubtedly too thick and needs thinning. To conclude, good friends, we will not give up! We are proposing amendments and showing how this budget can be balanced. I quote here the Minister for Finance, who also said that nothing else needs to be done but less spent to save. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U349	On behalf of the Group of the Sven Sester Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U350	All right, respectables! This is the first full-length budget of this government, which expresses the coalition's larger goals in improving Estonia's life. Three keywords are certainly important for IRL: better education, better work and better pay. If we look at the state budget for next year, we will see that society is moving towards a greater balance. The most important election promises of the IRL were the tax reform. Paying increased attention to the lower and middle earners is the only option and will happen at the beginning of next year. On 1 January 2018, the tax-free income reform will enter into force, which will obviously increase the well-being of workers. I would like to stress here: the well-being of people working, because it is also a measure to encourage entry into the labour market. The tax-free rate for lower and medium-paid workers will rise to EUR 500. For people earning up to 1200 euros, up to 64 euros per month will be left with more money. It's over 700 euros a year! For years, the IRL has been defending administrative reform and strengthening local authorities. We have now overcome the stagnation that has lasted for 10 to 15 years. The administrative reform has been carried out and the state budget for 2018 foresees an increase in the income base of local governments. This is due both to one-off accession bonuses and to the increase in long-term financing. The municipalities and cities of Estonia will receive more money to organise their lives. As I mentioned at the beginning, education is one of the priorities of the IRL. We have previously promised to implement free higher education, and it is now a functioning system. We promised to channel taxpayers' money to raise teachers' salaries, and we will see a surge in wages next year, just in comparison with the rise in wages for other public sector workers. The following year, additional funding will be provided for this purpose, which will ensure a minimum wage for teachers of EUR 1150. The minimum thus rises to EUR 100. As the state provides additional resources to differentiate teachers' salaries, the average wage of teachers will rise to EUR 1380. This applies to teachers in both public and private general education schools. The pay of kindergarten teachers must catch up with the pay of school teachers. In order to raise their salaries, we will contribute 2.5 million euros this autumn, and next year this support will be 13.5 million euros for municipalities. An amount of EUR 14 million will be invested in the organisation of the upper secondary school network next year and EUR 21 million will be invested in the organisation of the comprehensive school network. We also promised to improve the quality of Estonian language learning, to channel additional funding to research and development activities, to continue financing private school, etc. All these positions will be included in next year's budget. Now: security, security, security! For the IRL, this has been one of the highest-level priorities ever. In the current geopolitical situation, we need to focus even more on compulsory military service as well as funding for the Defence League and the presence of allies. The defence budget consists of three important elements: building defence capabilities on the basis of long-term development plans, ensuring the presence of allies and investments in the programme of defence investments. Dear friends, next year 528 million euros will be spent on defence costs and this means the highest level of defence costs in Estonian history. Let's go: investments. The general government is making investments and has regained independence at higher levels of Estonian history. The objective is clear: direct investment to support the long-term growth capacity of the Estonian economy. In addition to strategic investments, small but not least important projects in the field of culture and sport will not be overlooked. Investments will increase by 10% next year compared to last year. A few words about health care. It is certainly a sign that we have made a major step forward in the reform of healthcare funding in the coalition. The subject of the long drawer has received a political agreement and health care will receive EUR 34 million more money next year than this year. The reform of the financing of health care will help to shorten treatment queues and improve access to medical care. In the social field, EUR 11 million will be invested in special care institutions and EUR 12.5 million will be invested in the development of health centres. By the way, the average pension will increase from 416 euros to 442 euros in 2018, i.e. 6.3%. And for all pensioners' information: your pension is exempt from income tax not only on the average pension but also on the average pension up to 500 euros. A few words about the overall budget figures. The government decided to halve the structural government deficit compared to what was planned in the country's fiscal strategy, reaching close to balance: 0.25% of GDP. The opposition, especially the Reform Party, has said that we are about to fall into debt slavery and that soon everything will collapse. It's not like that! Government debt was 9.4% of GDP last year, 9% this year, 8.6% next year. In the four-year fiscal strategy, the debt burden will fall to 6.9% of GDP. So it's not like that! I also stop at a tax burden. This is another myth that the tax burden is increasing. I'm not growing! The tax burden will remain at the same level in 2018 as in 2016: 34.4% of GDP. Looking further ahead, it is also expected that the tax burden will remain at the same level. The burden of labour taxes is particularly important for IRL. If we want to be competitive, we must pay particular attention to reducing labour taxes. And we see, on the basis of the state budget, that the share of labour taxes is decreasing. Returning to the beginning: IRL believes that next year's budget will be responsible, economic support and a more balanced society. Let us not be ashamed of the budget that takes Estonia forward! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U351	According to my calculation, all the talks have been made. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 521. However, the Reform Party Group has proposed to reject the draft National Budget Act of 521 in 2018 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the Reform Party Group 521 - the draft State Budget Act 2018 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 36 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 52 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 521 is complete. Attention! I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U352	And now the Government of the Republic initiated the amendment of the Securities Market Act and the related amendment of other laws Act 507 first reading. The initiator's waitress is Finance Minister Toomas Tõniste.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U353	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and related amendments to other laws. This draft will transpose the European Union Securities Markets Directive into Estonian law, i.e. MiFID II. At the same time as that Directive, two other Directives will enter into force on 3 January 2018, one amending and the other complementing the basic Directive. EU regulation MiFIR and some 600 pages of regulations of a technical nature will also apply. It is therefore a very large legislative package in the financial area, which changes the way securities markets operate. This legal framework was driven by the latest global financial crisis, which also highlighted a number of shortcomings in the functioning and transparency of securities markets. In addition, it was found that a number of financial instruments are of a very complex nature for ordinary investors and that there is no or no relevant information available to them. In order to change the situation, the rules on the functioning of the securities markets are being updated. The main objective of the draft is precisely to strengthen investor protection. The new rules shape the provision of investment services and the organisation of stock exchanges and other similar trading venues throughout the European Union. The changes lead to new obligations for investment service providers, i.e. mainly banks and investment firms, but also for stock exchange operators. It can be said that the increase in investor protection outweighs the increasing administrative burden. I will give an overview of the main changes to the Estonian securities market. First of all, the draft stipulates that the investor, as a client, must be better informed about the benefits and fees received or provided by the bank or investment firm when providing an investment service. For example, a bank or investment firm providing portfolio management services may obtain commission if it acquires certain fund shares in a portfolio of clients. The current law does not oblige the portfolio manager to inform the client about this. In the future, however, information will be mandatory in this situation. In this way, customers will be better able to understand whether a bank or investment firm may have conflicts of interest in the course of providing the service. Secondly, the amendments introduce requirements for the development and marketing of securities products. According to the bill, it is precisely the securities products best suited to its profile that must be offered to the investor. Practice has shown that access to more complex securities is only worth giving an investor if he understands the risks involved. Even a seemingly simple fund share may contain risks that a regular investor does not always perceive. In addition, the development and marketing of securities must take place prudently and with the approval of the management of the bank or investment firm. This will better ensure that customers are provided with investment opportunities that meet their needs and objectives. The above requirements also apply to investment deposits which are not in themselves securities. Investment deposits have been quite popular in Estonia as an investment. Third, the rules on the execution of securities orders have also been improved. The bank or investment firm shall ensure that it executes the client's orders under the best possible conditions. The bill raises the standards for execution of orders. To this end, banks and investment firms need to update their work processes and operational strategies, which must also be understandable to the client. The draft requires the bank or investment firm to inform the client on which trading venue the client's order was executed and also to provide a more general overview of its main execution venues and the quality of the service provided there. Fourthly, the amendments do not only lead to obligations. It is important to mention that the draft also offers new opportunities. Under the draft, it is possible to create a separate market for smaller companies to trade shares and bonds. This market is called a growth market. Companies with a capital base of less than EUR 200 million will be able to access it. In the growth market, companies are subject to less stringent listing requirements than large stock exchanges. Smaller companies receive investors' attention on the growth market on the same terms as large companies on stock exchanges. And fifthly, the amendments specify the rules for providing advice to the investor. According to the Bill, the investor must be able to fully understand in the future whether it is an independent advice or whether the bank or investment firm has an interest in recommending the purchase of a particular security. In addition, the draft regulates situations with which the Estonian securities market has little or no connection. For example, algorithmic trading is regulated, which means that the computer program trades for a person and, in the short term, very many transactions are made. It also regulates more precisely how transactions in commodity-based derivatives can be carried out and what information needs to be provided. The supervisory authorities' information on the functioning of such markets has so far been rather incomplete. Therefore, the Financial Supervision Authority will be given a more extensive mandate to limit these transactions where necessary. To sum up, the amendments to the draft are aimed at making the securities services market safer and more transparent and thus allowing investors to take more prudent investment decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U354	Questions for the waitress. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U355	Good manager! Good minister! I tried to study it a little bit, but I'm asking for my education. This explanatory memorandum states that the effect of the same MiFID that is now being transposed is greater than that of Brexit or Trump becoming President of the United States. Why don't you enlighten us what the effect is that it's bigger than Brexit or Trump's president?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U356	Thank you. I do not appreciate this draft in the context of such a comparison and such great orders of magnitude. As I said, the main positive impact here is investor protection and the fact that the securities services market is safer and more transparent. For me, it is also important that it may be possible to avoid a situation where there is an attempt to impose on the investor certain shares in which the intermediary has an interest in the game.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U357	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U358	Good manager! Good minister! I didn't really realize they were trying to get smacked in the head. I mean, they tried to smear Brexit and the fact that Trump becomes President of the United States, that's the effect. However, the question is that the directive had to be adopted as early as 3 July. It's almost November, it's been four months. Why did it wait so long?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U359	Thank you. One reason is the burden during the Presidency and there is no reason to hide it. And since this bill was extended by a 'year', perhaps the momentum of its proceedings may have shrunk in this regard as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U360	No further questions. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Kalvi Tõvi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U361	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 25 September, including. The Minister also gave an overview of the content of the draft law in the Commission as comprehensive as today. The Commission was asked and received a series of answers. The Commission also made decisions that were consensual: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 18 October, to close the first reading and to set the deadline for amendments at 10 working days, i.e. 1 November at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U362	No questions for the waitress. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 507 is complete. I will set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 1 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U363	First reading of the draft law amending the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office initiated by the Government of the Republic 513. The rapporteur for the initiative is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U364	Honourable President! High House! With this bill, the Government of the Republic is requesting changes in the pay system of prosecutors. It is important to ensure the procedural independence of the prosecutor's office by laying down the levels of remuneration of prosecutors in the law. In addition, it has been guided to ensure a benchmark for the remuneration of judges, which is an international principle. The wage increase that has taken place in the internal security sector has also been borne in mind. So by this logic, the grades of prosecutors should be included in the salary of senior civil servants. Its annual cost is EUR 617000 of additional resources. If the High Chamber is in favour of supporting this draft, the government will provide these additional resources in the state budget for next year. I would like to emphasise that in the Central European view, the prosecutor's office is not an authority of the executive state, but a quasi-judicial authority. And the role of the prosecutor's office is crucial in the chain of criminal proceedings. It is therefore also important to ensure that this important link, the motivation and quality of the people that this draft seeks, is also important. I will give an example of its importance or the role of quasi-justice. 90% of the current criminal proceedings will be dealt with in a simple procedure where the judge will not discuss the matter in substance, but will fix the results of the simple procedure. Thus, in this type of procedure, the requirements for the quality of the work of the prosecutor are as high as those for judges. The quality of this work depends on the fate of people, the freedom of people depends in a literal sense, not figuratively. Of course, the legislator has also placed additional requirements on prosecutors' shoulders to ensure fundamental rights in criminal proceedings, including the additional need to ensure the competitiveness of this service. What's important? Although we have general crime statistics in decline, which is positive (I am thinking of so-called ordinary crimes against individuals and crimes against property), we can see that we cannot actually say that about serious and organised crime. On the contrary, it's getting more and more complicated. Consequently, blocking it also requires sufficient competence from civil servants. In short, this is the point of this short draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U365	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U366	Good manager! Good minister! When we discussed this in the Commission, I did not get an answer. I'm reading the Supreme Court's explanations here. The Supreme Court directly says that it does not convince him that the prosecutor is a much more important figure in Estonia than a judge, minister, Chancellor of Justice or anyone else. He means that the Chief Prosecutor's salary will be set at 0.95 - so that the next of the old god, while the Auditor General, the Secretary of State, the chairmen of the political groups and the ministers will have a coefficient of 0,85. The Supreme Court says that the reasoning is not convincing. Explain to us why the reasons why the prosecutor general should have a coefficient of 0,95, so-called God's next step, are convincing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U367	Thank you. The international principle of ensuring the independence of justice provides for a comparable system of remuneration for judges and prosecutors. This principle of comparability is, in itself, fixed as a general canon in the law of the prosecutor's office, where it is actually said that this system should be structured like this. When discussing wages, there is always a specific number. But the EUR 5200, which I think was adopted in the previous Parliament, is, after all, conditional. It's subjective, it's cognitive, it has no exact scientific character, it can't be. Logic here is that it has been tried to be guided by this comparability in such a way that the salary of the state's attorney general is equal to the salary of the President of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. That's actually the logic. The Ministry of Justice has proposed this from the surface of his analysis. We have found that this is a logical model in this pyramidal hierarchy, from which other public prosecutors' salaries are derived. Once again, the principle is that our absolute peak in the judicial service is judges. That's why it was considered reasonable that we're still dealing with a lower coefficient here, they're not one to one. And I certainly have not expressed the thought that the idea or basic idea of this draft is somehow to place prosecutors in a position above the judges. Far from it. I think it is important to ensure independence, transparency and also 'predictability' in the system. It is certainly important what we have asked for in this 'higher legal qualifications' aquarium in order to take away partitions. To this end, we have harmonised the test requirements for entering the system and the experience requirements. And it would actually be logical for this system to have comparable levels of pay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U368	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U369	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. The explanation of the additional need for money has also been given about the potential benefits. You also mentioned in your report that better motivated prosecutors are more profitable for the state and that high-quality public charges contribute more widely to the security and security of the state and help reduce the damage to society caused by crime. Here too, it is estimated that the proceeds of crime will be confiscated at least EUR 3 million per year. Is there any way you can describe it as a percentage of how much it represents of the actual criminal gain? Although I admit that this is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U370	How much criminal profit does society have, and how many prosecutors get? I say this by saying that Europol claims that the law enforcement authorities will receive 2% of the proceeds of crime across the European Union. 98% of the profits generated by organised crime remain for criminals. If we ask if organized crime is a good business, it is. There's a huge profit! For example, I move one truck a few decades across the border to another country and the price of cigarettes rises four times. The question here is that preventing this kind of activity in human relations has both a moral and a legal perspective, but the fact is that if it is profitable, the lower characters will be captured and they will be captured, but they are the tools. If, after all, it pays off in this chain, because profits are generated and 98% of it remains, as Europol claims, then something is, in principle, out of order. We have to block it. We are creating a European Public Prosecutor's Office to deal with cross-border financial fraud, but we also need to ensure this level of pay for national prosecutors. We have to admit that we are in a situation of trouble right now. The whole pyramid logic suggests that those who oversee or control processes should have a degree of professionalism and a better level of pay than those who are subordinate. Unfortunately, we see that this is not a complaint, but a recognition of the police service in the area of internal security, that in fact the police's wages have shifted away. You need a positive step or a push here. We can assume that we are better in the European Union than any Mediterranean country, but in general we must say that we are facing a serious challenge here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U371	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U372	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! You are about to change the law on the salaries of senior civil servants, but you are changing the salaries of only one state office. All the proposals and comments put forward by the various institutions have been asked about this, and you have taken note of this. Why hasn't the whole picture been solved? The Ministry has responded here that prosecutors are, unlike other public officials, more independent. How much more independent are they in a ten-ball system than, for example, judges?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U373	Thank you. Logic is that the authorities of the executive state have been taken into account and, of course, within the framework of the law that should guarantee this independence. The judges are already in the framework of the law. And the point is that the prosecutors, who, as I said, are not the authority of the executive state, are by their very nature quasi-judicial authorities, are also placed there. It was pointed out what has really been pointed out. Above all, the judicial service has pointed out that this wage factor has actually lasted for years, let's say, wriggling or sinusoidally in a certain range, in the same plane. And then what do we do with this question? That's my general attitude. If I look at this demographic hole that arises in the judicial service, I am sure that competitiveness in the judicial system is also important. However, this specific proposal is not addressed to the general framework, the indexation of the salaries of senior civil servants or the system. It still focuses on the prosecutor's service and settles on this earth body, which is actually defined in advance by the framework of the law. Can and to what extent be the subject of the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? It is certainly possible to propose amendments to this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U374	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U375	Good manager! Good minister! When the Attorney General was elected, the question was whether his monthly salary was a week's salary. He's supposed to stand up for the rights of the people in his profession. However, the Supreme Court has said very clearly that it is actually necessary to look at the whole picture, not to raise the prosecutors' aquarium, these fishes, so-called higher. The Supreme Court, I stress, the Supreme Court, says about this bill: 'This situation may lead to the inability to guarantee independence in a position of employment whose performance requires independence. This situation could be a threat to national security, as the salaries of public officials are, among other things, one of the guarantees of national security'. My question is, however, why, in this case, do not look at the pay system of public officials as a whole, but only one group is taken out of the prosecutors in this case and will be regulated, i.e. 0,95 or 0.85, according to whether it is the Prosecutor General or the ordinary prosecutor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U376	There are two separate dimensions. The first dimension is that the salaries of government officials, executive officials, are the subject of a wage policy, which depends primarily on the salary policy choices of a particular service provider or the respective central authority, based on resources. Here the government has proposed a holistic approach for next year. The general government wage increase is set at 2.5%. In addition to this, the increase in the payroll of 2% does not mean an increase in the specific grade wage for the internal security staff, of whom I do not know, even in the context of the historical perspective, the prosecutors have not been counted. As far as the comprehensive solution is concerned, the framework of the law, i.e. which of the senior staff are there, was in fact an agreement in the previous Parliament. I'll admit it. A working group was set up from the representatives of the political groups. The main objective of this law, as a phenomenon, of the Law on the salaries of senior civil servants, was to rid them of any directional pressure so that these civil servants could have a clear framework in place so that it was not a constant debate. And above all, there was a desire to decouple these salaries from the average salary coefficients. It seems to me that, in a large way, this objective has actually come true. Surely this law is also a guarantee of personal independence, which is why I think it is right that the government considers it appropriate to include prosecutors here. Now there's this whole issue. When we talk about other servants, the level of pay for judges is what has been stated in this framework. The Ministry does not plan any additional, "system-creating" changes for these salary coefficients. A separate question is the replacement judges and their remuneration. This institute of temporary judges is very important, but it is a separate functional subject. The Ministry of Justice is also preparing a draft law. And the second topic is the payment of possible extra charges in the judicial service of Ida-Virumaa. What I'm saying is that I believe that the world is chaos and our mission is to create harmony within the limits of our capabilities. In this sense, I am sceptical about such initiatives, which always have a slight effect on me when it is said that we are trying to find comprehensive solutions for everything. This is so relative because the environment of the internal balance of the whole is constantly changing. I think it's up to us in this world to create a balance or harmony in this chaos, these concrete measurable things that depend on what we do. And I believe that the chaos surrounding it will be easier for the rest of humanity to endure than this call to find a holistic solution in such a philosophical context. I welcome all the good proposals that come from other areas, such as the salaries of various services. For example, the political agreement was in the coalition and we raised the salaries of cultural workers in order to put them into categories comparable to those of higher education workers. It was actually a specific question. There's always a particular group and an important subject. For me, this is now a very central link responsible for the quality and support of criminal proceedings at the level of executive authority in the country's criminal policy. I think it's important. And for all the proposals that the High Assembly will make, I am sure to be extremely serious.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U377	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U378	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I still didn't get a real answer to that why-issue. When our new formation began to work, for example, the Chairman of the Supreme Court visited all political groups, as far as I know, and pointed out the problems of the pay system of judges. I understand there have been negotiations with you. Can you tell me what the state of these negotiations are? Why, for example, are judges reluctant to deal with pay problems? And you mentioned here that there are exceptions. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs recently came up with the issue of the need for specialised judges in the area of juvenile delinquency, for example. Is there any additional means or not? Perhaps a separate amendment is needed. Of course, you may also ask why the Committee on Legal Affairs does not process the salaries of prosecutors and why we are not talking about solving the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U379	The question of which Commission will deal with this. I guess this has usually been the case in Parliament that the framework of the law has actually determined which committee is covered by it. I will be honest with you that, initially, in the previous composition, it was in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In practice, things are actually being realised on the basis of precedents and precedents. Public service issues have in themselves been under the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but this is simply a matter of agreement. They could also be part of the Committee on Legal Affairs or even of some other committee. There was also a question of specialised judges. Those judges who have been appointed for life still specialize in the judicial service. That's the logic. And specialization is so structured that the judge acts in the area of drug crime, sexual assaults or juvenile-related crimes, but there really is no premium system. It was asked whether the Ministry was planning to propose, in the general system, an increase in the framework salary or basic salary for judges. No, there is no such proposal on the table, but there are a number of problems in this area of service that we are currently analysing. I've appointed a deputy judge to the institute to ensure this. Another question, for example, is what to do with the on-call work. The vigilante must be prepared to be called on the weekend if a judge is requested to be authorised in an acute case. Now this question is why no proposals were made to raise wages in other legal areas or in public services. There is currently a concrete proposal on the table, which also had an intention to develop. We found that this problem needs to be addressed. This is, in my opinion, a serious problem. And what I also want to say is that in reality, you can argue about how much the service pension motivates people in their late 20s or their late 30s to choose a career or a career with a long career perspective. The right thing is that the procedure for this draft is currently falling into an environment where the Committee on Legal Affairs has on the table a draft concerning the abolition of special pensions for these people. I would place the competitiveness of this high judicial service in this perspective. These things need to be viewed in a holistic way. And the Ministry of Justice has such a holistic view of the logic that those entering the new system will be deprived of their pensions, but their salaries should be competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U380	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U381	Mr. Minister! At least from the beginning of 1993, all the drafts concerning the prosecutor's office, whether they are essentially the work or remuneration of the prosecutor's office, have been in the area of the Committee on Legal Affairs. And I was a little surprised that you were back in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This is certainly a recognition of your ability, if not to others, at least of the manipulator's. But I would rather ask you that, at the meeting of the Commission, the officials of the Ministry of Finance claimed that this draft had not passed through the government and had not received approval to send it to the Riigikogu. Yet he is here and in our proceedings. So what are we dealing with? Is it a more truthful second version that the minister failed to follow the so-called orders of his subordinate officials and dared to admit to them that he acted against these orders at a government hearing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U382	Thank you. Jüri, I give you my word of honour that I have not manipulated the executive board of the Riigikogu or the executive board of the Riigikogu in order that this bill should be run by the Constitutional Committee. I have to admit, it makes sense in itself. The experience of previous years is, in fact, that because of the budgetary framework, all this pacakhkam will be pushed to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and then the Committee on Monetary Affairs will essentially not look at it. I think that the logic right now is that these things have been distributed among the committees. The question of whether this draft should be under the Committee on Constitutional Affairs or under the Committee on Legal Affairs. I think I said that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is logical here because this framework law has been there for discussion. It was evidently pointed out here that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is more generous or merciful to the government than the Committee on Legal Affairs. I cannot say that I have seen enough parliamentary insistence in the relations between the members of both committees. I don't think there's much difference. It would certainly be wise to ask if the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs consider it necessary, as well as the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. I also have no problem discussing this with the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. There was another question on which I think that we are still putting this draft into context. The claim, as the government did not submit this draft, remains completely incomprehensible to me because the Government of the Republic discussed it at its meeting and formally approved it. It was handed over by Mrs Heili Tõnisson from this remote control as a representative of the government. There is no doubt about it, i.e. it is not a fake draft or any title to be given to it. It is true that this proved to be true, which was also reflected in the committee, that the chairman of the committee also asked the representatives of the Ministry of Finance to participate. The position of the Ministry of Finance on this draft was not supportive. On the basis of general, universal views, the Ministry of Finance does not want to see that some things are clearly framed within the framework of the law and the budgetary elasticity of so-called state expenditure decreases. It does not matter whether we are talking about wages, subsidies or other things. That is their universal attitude, which they also expressed here. It is not unusual for a couple of state institutions to have a different understanding of the matter. I think this is where the legislator can be a judge. But there was no question of the position of the officials of the Ministry of Finance and the position of the Government of the Republic, and that the government violated the positions of these officials, went against them and committed at least a misdemeanour. There was no such thing, there is still the government's position. And there is no shutting up here for officials to express their position and they certainly have the right to be heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U383	George Adams, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U384	The second question is this. I think that the tradition in which something is being dealt with in the Commission has its own value. It is possible that an error was made in 1993 already then should have been discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs for prosecutors' salaries. If this was a mistake and it needs to be corrected, it is certainly not by sending the matter further, i.e. the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But my basic question is a little bit broader. In my opinion, you belong to this generation, which has now served as ministers for at least 12 years, and whose most outstanding result is certainly that you have been very obedient to your officials. So now if your generation's fellows were to rebel against the dictatorship of officials, it would give me great sympathy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U385	Thank you. I think it's the right, healthy skepticism of a wise man. Which one of us doesn't have a feeling about the next generation that Rome is standing on the brink of decline. I have to admit, even my early 40's is sneaking into my ears, too, George. It's universal in the sense that it's been, I think, centuries and so it's going to be until people settle for Mars. But it's not in itself some kind of invention of officials just to get more money universally. I still think that this is a matter of fundamental constitutional choice. This is a rational and international choice. And, in some ways, we made this choice when there was a reform of the prosecutor's office in 2005 or 2006, or at the beginning of this century, I don't remember exactly. The logic was that the DA's office is centrally in charge of state charges. The choice of the prosecutor depends on how the police actually do their job, and the prosecutor's office doesn't stand by in any way. I think it was the right choice for the protection of fundamental rights in the rule of law. We took the OECD reports into account ourselves during the Socialist and Reform Party governments and lost ministerial titles from the law. In practice, this also created such controversy that people could not understand their own law, which had its own meaning. And if this is to be further developed, in so many countries in the world, including Europe, the names of parliamentary committees, for example, have not been put in place. Every new coalition, I hope, along with the benevolent opposition, will agree with the Commission and define their focus. It is a question of political choices. When it comes to civil servants' rights of service and their salaries, our good partners in Latvia, for example, can also form subcommittees. They may say, for example, that the organisation of a formal wage policy is the task of a parliamentary assembly, a sub-committee is being set up and dealt with. We have now chosen the path of having working groups that are a little bit around the corner. It was pointed out here that the working group is doing some work around the corner, it is not an official format and it will be easier to process. I think it's really worth considering here. There are, in fact, a lot of political, agreed choices now, like around the corner. I think that Parliament's rules of procedure could be more elastic in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U386	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions for you. The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs shall be made by its chairman, Marko Pomerants. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U387	Dear Vice-Chairman, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed draft 513 and sending it to first reading on 9 October 2017. I will speak very briefly about the problems or the circle of questions. Is it the right Commission? I say yes, of course it is the right Commission, because it is the law on the salaries of senior civil servants. These officials and wives have previously been agreed in this law in the form that they stand before us either as constitutional institutions or as other senior servants. This law, which we are talking about, regulates the remuneration from the President of the Republic of Estonia to a member of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. In the meantime, there is the salary of the national conciliator and the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. So there's no reason to think there's no way to fit the prosecutors if there's a county court judge here. That's one. Second, where do the odds come from? Of course, it could get even more subtle and make these steps by, for example, 0.3, but there is no better methodical basis for this. This law has been in force since 2012, it is an agreement, and I do not think we have any better knowledge on the basis of which these steps could be further refined. Of course, it is nice to think and debate, but the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also came to the following decisions. Firstly, to put this draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 18 October. Our proposal is to conclude the first reading of this bill. We also propose that the deadline for amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 01.11.2017. Let's check the bells. My watch is now eight minutes past seven. And I was appointed waitress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-18_U388	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, dear waitress. If I so wish, I will open negotiations for the representatives of the political groups. There are representatives of five groups in the Chamber now, but I do not see that wish. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 513. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 1 November at 5.15 p.m. for the submission of draft amendments. Thank you very much for this day's work, for the exchange of views and for your decisions. See you tomorrow morning at 10:00! Closure of the sitting at 19.08 a.m.
