ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 16th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. On behalf of the board, I am prepared to adopt drafts or enquiries. Since that's not the way to go, please, let's do the presence check! 72 members of the Riigikogu are present at the session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U2	First item: First reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party 401. Hanno Pevkuri, member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress for the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U3	Ladies and gentlemen, We are pleased to discuss the subject of e-elections in the large hall. E-elections have been a very important trademark for Estonia and e-services have been a very important trademark for Estonia. We Estonian people have been able to use electronic channels to express our will in elections. This possibility has been increasingly exploited year after year and has not been overlooked abroad. In creating this opportunity, of course, we had reservations, but we were confident that it would increase the turnout and give people more opportunity to take part in the elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U4	Honourable waitress! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me remind you that the time for negotiations will come, but a little later. Hanno Pevkur, please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U5	Thank you. Creating the possibility of electronic selection was in its time something that was looked up to Estonia. Electronic selection is something that has also increased voters' activity. Potential risks were taken into account when setting up this system. And one of the most important factors for mitigating risks was that if someone had to suspect the fate of their electronic voice, they could go to the polling station on the day of the vote and make their choice there, after which their electronic vote would not count, but the vote on paper in the department would count. Similarly, in order to increase security, so-called envelopes are separated. The structure of the system ensures that electronic voting is secure. If we look at the latest developments in this Parliament, the current coalition has proposed shortening the time for electronic voting. We cannot agree in any way to shorten the time for electronic voting. It is not a question of how long it will be for an electronic vote. The message of this draft is that the image of the Estonian e-Profession is being corrupted. There's a lot of appearance in politics. And this appearance in the proposal initiated by the coalition means that, as e-vote time is intended to be reduced, the coalition signals, as if, that e-vote is not to be trusted. It's not the same. If there is a desire to make the elections more uniform, then it is also possible to support the Reform Party's draft by extending the time of the e-vote. It also provides an opportunity to harmonise e-votes and pre-votes. If we look at the general principle of e-voting, it is very simple: an e-vote is one way of participating in the elections. The most classic way to do that is, yes, on election day at the precinct. But in addition, we will be able to vote during the preliminary vote and we will be able to vote at home. These are the ways we've been set up for the election. And on certain days you can vote outside your precinct. So the legislator has accepted that it is possible to vote in different ways in elections. On this draft, we see that it is actually possible to increase turnout by extending the e-vote. And the signal is that we are not cutting the time for e-votes, but extending the time for e-votes. So the basic, bearing message of the draft is that we trust our e-vote and allow people to continue to use electronic channels in their vote. Of course, it is the wish of the Reform Party and the proposal to conclude the first reading of this draft, to send the draft to second reading and then to adopt it one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U6	Any questions for the waitress? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U7	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You mentioned that those who wish to shorten the deadline for e-votes do not trust the e-vote system as such. But do you agree with the view that these people do not really trust the Estonian state and that this is a mistrust of the Estonian rulers? And if such an initiative comes up, then the rulers of their own party will actually be trusted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U8	Thank you. In one way or another, I can agree with that view. The question is actually, as I said, Estonian e-edolosis and the image of Estonia. If the government coalition wants to make Estonia's image worse, then it is true that not only within Estonia but also outside Estonia is the message that we still have something bad here, we do not have anything working. Well, it works! The e-vote works very well. Of course, it is always possible to improve in time, to become even safer, and it is also logical that it will be dealt with. But like I said, it's a matter of messages. The question is, what kind of draft message do we have that we are not currently discussing? This message is that the current government does not trust the e-vote. And, of course, it can also be said that yes, they do not trust the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U9	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U10	Thank you, President of the sitting. Honourable waitress! Historically, the Fatherland and Res Publica Association and the Social Democrats have trusted the e-election system and have never proposed shortening the e-election period. Do you know why these two groups have changed their position? After all, they voted in favour of the draft the week before last, which will shorten the e-election period, contrary to your proposed extension.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U11	Thank you. Well, it's very difficult to predict and you can't see into people's minds. After all, it can be assumed that both the Social Democrats and the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union have retreated from one of their strong rules to date to support Estonia's success story. And we know what a change of principles in politics can lead to. The fact that the Social Democrats have also supported what the Reform Party has been saying for some time, that e-choice should also be possible by mobile phone, is as if it were counterbalanced by the fact that, in fact, we still trust the e-vote. Once again, the message that the e-vote is intended to shorten time sends the opposite signal. And that's not offset by still making it possible to dial on the cell phone. It is a logical process that we also make cell phone voting possible. But I believe that why exactly the Fatherland and Res Publica Union or Social Democrats are willing to support the e-vote reduction must be asked to them. I would like to see today that they take the opposite step and support the draft we have initiated in order to extend the e-vote period. Perhaps it has something to do with denying it, being in the coalition and wanting to please the Centre Party, who, as we know, has said that they would like to cancel the e-vote at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U12	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U13	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague, waitress! The idea that the image of Estonia's e-governance is important also ran through your presentation a few times. I think that the image of an e-state is not just about voting time, be it ten, seven or four days. But my question is a little wider and I recall it because sometimes you, on the part of the Reform Party, are dealing with memory loss, that you were the Minister of the Interior in 2014, or two and a half years. We're talking about applying for personal documents. They were requested electronically by 2,63% in 2015 and 3,17% in 2016. When the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, under the administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, was with us, he said that SMIT was behind in the preparation of the electronic application system within a year. Would it not be more important to focus attention on such e-solutions under e-government management?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U14	Thank you, very good question! I certainly have no memory loss. I, as Minister of the Interior, stood very strongly for their electronic application, just as it is now possible to apply for a driving licence. We talked about this and put in place a development that could take the application for ID cards to shopping centres, for example. You could put a photo booth in there where you can take your picture, just like you're currently in the Police and Border Guard Board. You go in there and take your picture, press the button and find out if your other data stays the same. And so you can get your ID card home, just like your driver's license is coming home right now. This development is in progress. True, not all developments go as quickly as they would like. But I believe that these are the steps that need to be taken. That's right! And I hope that the current Minister for the Interior will continue the work that I started.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U15	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U16	Thank you, Mr. Pevkur! When you said that you and the Reform Party would trust such a vote, it is very pleasant. But I have met quite a number of people in Estonia who do not trust electronic voting and especially the counting of votes. One argument is that they do not trust the IT specialists involved in this work, nor do they trust the election officials. This frame was completed during the 12 years when the government was mainly led by your party. It seems to me that something has gone wrong in this assembly when some of our population lack confidence in these people. So what went wrong? Why is there so much reason to doubt the integrity of electronic selection?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U17	Thank you. Those who do not trust electronic elections are still a smaller part of Estonian society. There are people who don't trust the Centre Party. Clearly, there are people who don't trust the Centre Party, even less people there. So the fact that some people are not trusted can even be completely understandable. And not everyone can be everyone's favorites, it's perfectly clear. As regards the system as a whole, those who are responsible for the functioning of the e-vote are pros in their area. This is the Republic Election Commission, which is independent and whose leaders have been appointed according to their own skills. And I believe that we have no reason to say that the current Republic Election Commission would somehow be incompetent. No, it's not. And those people who have been responsible for building the e-vote system have also been very competent in their own field. We have no reason not to trust our e-vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U18	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U19	Thank you. We all understand that this draft is politically related to the draft proposed by the coalition, which cuts the time of the e-elections and was discussed here in the shadow of night blindness the day before last. In fact, there is total confusion among performers. The Centre Party says that e-election time needs to be cut because it is not safe. The IRL and the Social Democrats don't want or dare to talk about it, there's no reason. They are talking about the uniformity of elections, which are not legally competent. The decisions of the Supreme Court also say that uniformity is fully guaranteed in the case of e-elections. I ask what is your assessment of how it feels outside when the top conference of European leaders takes place in Estonia on digital topics and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia, Jüri Ratas, has only one thing to actually show for turning back the e-elections. How does it look outside what message we're sending to the outside world?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U20	Thank you for your question. It turned out very right. Indeed, as far as I know, we have also asked European leaders to speak about the digital market and digital developments in Estonia. Just recently, I heard an interview, and I cannot remember what radio station it came from, where it was said that one of the priorities of the Estonian Presidency was the digital market and digital development, and we also need to show our strengths to Europe. That's right! We need to show you. But the signal or decision they want here, I don't know, before Midsummer Day, we're actually sending the opposite message. I find it very difficult to predict what the Prime Minister will say to his European colleagues. We may also be able to ask the Prime Minister, in three weeks' time, what message he sends to his colleagues. And when, on the one hand, coalition partners The Fatherland and Res Publica Union and the Social Democrats say that e-elections are nice and necessary, it is not a secret to the Centre Party that they would like to lose the e-vote at all. So in any case, the Prime Minister will have a serious head-on, whether to remain true to the principles of his party and also to tell European leaders that the government's leading party does not support e-solutions, or to support Estonia's current e-success story and say that we have very good e-solutions, also confirming that e-elections will continue at least in the current volume and will also be dealt with in offering new e-solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U21	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U22	Thank you, Mr. Waitress. I don't know if I understand what you're saying. You have said several times that the IRL and the Social Democrats have somehow changed their principles. I understand that this is a process that can be compared to regular laundry changes. Did I hear correctly that you said it was a matter of principle? How can principles simply change during political economics? Was that the right word I heard?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U23	Thank you, good questioner! You heard me right. After all, we see another change in principle in the case of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Mart Laar, former Chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union and current Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank, has said that the budget balance is something that must be stated in the Constitution. But the current coalition, under the leadership of the Minister of Finance from the IRL, is prepared to put the budget at half a percent deficit. The European Commission says that there may even be a 0.9% deficit. So such a diametric change of principles has been experienced by a political party in financial matters. Consequently, if we take the e-elections that the IRL has always supported, even the smallest change in the negative direction here means that they have changed their current principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U24	We will continue the debate on bill 401, the round of questions. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U25	Thank you. Good waitress! The advocates of shortening e-voting time often say that the problem of e-election is that it is unsafe and there is a risk that the result of the election can be altered in any way, influenced. Can you, as former Minister of the Interior, say on this board, we have known or documented any objective risks and security problems? Have there been any real facts in the history of this electronic vote that attempts have been made to influence or influence the outcome of the election?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U26	Thank you. I have to start at the beginning of your question. You said that the authors of this second bill are talking about the security of the system. In fact, you should ask them then, not us, whether, when they say it is unsafe, you should take the position of the Centre Party and lose the e-vote. Because even if an e-vote is possible only one day, they believe that these raised questions of the Centre Party will still stand. We believe that the e-vote is secure in every way and, as far as we know, the electoral committee has also always confirmed the results of the elections. As a result, among other things, the Centre Party has 27 seats in this Chamber. And the large number of people who voted electronically in the last Euro-Parliament elections was 31,28%, and it is confirmed that nearly a third of Estonian voters trust the e-vote and consider it to be a perfectly normal part of the elections. And everyone, including the Centre Party, has accepted these results: the e-voices they have been given are also suitable for obtaining mandates. If the Centre Party didn't want e-voices, they could give them up, saying that they are unsafely received votes. But no, the Centre Party also received the votes received in its e-system nicely, and at the expense of which they are most likely to receive the statistics I do not have with me how many e-voices the Centre Party received in the order of seven to eight, maybe ten.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U27	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U28	Good manager! Good waitress! It's a shame reform parties are so weak that they didn't discuss it in the dark of the night, it stayed this morning. You said that those who do not trust the e-elections do not trust the Estonian state. A while ago, we were in the Bundestag and met with the Digital Commission. And their common position was that they wouldn't be dealing with that kind of thing. My question is whether the Bundestag ambassadors do not trust the German state or are Christian Democrats, as well as the Social Democrats, in fact, members of the Centre Party. Angela Merkel, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U29	Thank you. It's every country's choice. We in this Parliament have chosen that we trust the e-vote. We have accepted the e-vote as one way of voting, as well as the preliminary vote, as well as the vote at home and as well as the vote outside the precinct. This is one of the electoral methods that we have accepted and trust. It's as simple as that. If your party doesn't trust it, I'll tell you once again that you don't have to choose electronically, you can also choose at the station. There's no problem. At the same time, when I look at the e-voices that have been given to you, it turns out that there are people among your voters who trust the e-vote, and in quite considerable quantities. So the e-vote as one of the electoral methods has been the e-performance story of Estonia. And with regard to the debate on this subject, I am more than convinced to discuss it here this morning at a normal time, with a rested head and in front of such a large hall, it is more reasonable than at 6:00 a.m. in the presence of two people. This is such an important issue that it deserves more debate. And the fact that you went in this way to shorten the e-vote in the dark of the night is, in my opinion, abnormal. You, under the leadership of the coalition, made such an agenda that it was not possible to discuss an issue as important as the e-vote and Estonian e-success at a normal time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U30	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I, too, want to assure you that stories about people not trusting in e-elections are not for a cent. Indeed, this is confirmed by the fact that in the last two choices, virtually one third of the votes has been cast electronically. Maybe if people didn't trust him, he wouldn't use that channel. In my opinion, the greatest charm of e-elections is, in fact, that it is possible to increase the turnout. However, we have had a problem with looking back in time, and e-elections have certainly increased the turnout considerably. And I believe that e-elections for young people are particularly important. I expect more young people to participate in e-elections. My question to you is, can you guess why the IRL is afraid of the opinion of young people, wanting to limit their chances of expressing their position in the elections, or are they just hostages to the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U32	Thank you. We now have exactly one good person from the IRL, Raivo Time. If the Seeder was there, we could ask him what he thinks. Perhaps Seeder, as the new chairman, has changed his opinion as he has changed his opinion on joint declarations, sweets, packaging excise duties and pledge tax. We wish Seeder strength and success in the fight against the Centre Party in order to eliminate these tax changes. Perhaps Seeder has been hit by similar repentance in the case of e-votes, and he will support its extension rather than shortening it. But I agree with you a hundred percent that by e-vote it is possible to make young people more active, to make them talk, because we see that young people are increasingly living in the cyber world. In this way, we could create an additional opportunity for an increase in turnout, or at least prevent a drop. This would also be a major step if we could keep the turnout at the same level. Indeed, we see that the younger a person, the more he uses e-channels and the older a person is, the more likely he will go to the station to choose. But there are also more and more elderly people who cannot go to the station because of their health status, but who are very active Internet users, who have an ID card and who can exercise their right to vote in this way. If, for example, we take the issue of the security of the elections, I would, of course, like to debate with the Centre Party on this further. We have repeatedly and repeatedly seen YouTube's loaded video breaks, where the election result in Russia and in other countries is being massively violated by voting with notes. The cameras show how more ballot boxes are placed and thus have a significant impact on the result of the election. It is not possible to do this by electronic means. Everyone has exactly one vote. You can vote like this once, and if you feel like it's not right for you, you can finally go to the station. So for me, e-voting is actually safer than voting with notes. In the case of ballots, it must be assumed that honest people are working in all these thousands of polls who do not violate the result of the election by putting the ballots in the box.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U33	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U34	Thank you. Four in one. Firstly, what message did Sweden give Europe, which tried and refused to vote electronically because it was not safe? Point two: What message does the American media give to the world - all pages and television - who claims that Putin's hackers put Donald Trump as president? Point three: why are we discussing religion in the Riigikogu? The programmers I know, who I have a lot of, go to the polling station because they don't believe that e-voices will be distributed after the way they were given. Your acquaintances say the opposite. The difference is, people I know don't get paid for it. It's a question of faith: I believe the people I communicate with, you believe in yours. Why are we discussing the matter of faith here? And the fourth question arose at the last moment: how many thousand polling stations are there in Estonia? You said thousands of polling stations. How many thousands of polling stations are there in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U35	Let's start at the end. I meant hundreds. I'm gonna check it out on the verbatim, but I thought it was raining. I'm sorry! Now, of other questions. Sweden and the United States, it is each country's own choice of the system they create and the degree of security there. Our National Information System Authority and the Election Commission have confirmed that our electoral system is secure. I don't see a problem here. As far as religion is concerned, yes, faith is a personal matter for everyone. Some believe that the earth is flat. Some believe that the Centre Party is the right choice for Estonia, but many feel that it is not. Indeed, even in the case of elections, it is a free choice for everyone. I'd say it has nothing to do with religion. I would say that it has to do with human beliefs and also with the choice he makes to give his vote. It is the task of the state to offer a variety of choices in order to maximise the turnout. If we only wanted one type of election, we would say that the elections will take place one day, on a certain date, it will be the second Sunday of October or the first Sunday of March, and there will be no other option. But also before the e-vote, we had a number of options: the possibility of ordering a box home, the possibility of voting in polling stations. It is now possible to choose electronically. That is the multiplicity of election options. And which one of them a man chooses is a question of his choice, not of his faith.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U36	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U37	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! First of all, I'm going to argue a little bit about what's been said in the hall. There's been talk about Germany, Sweden, America. None of these countries has an ID-card far from what is in Estonia, in fact not at all. And some of them can't even register persons with a personal identification code, because in the old days, not too long ago, registration has been made. That's out of the question. So here's the big difference, it's not a question of faith. But here's my question. I have not understood what the coalition now wants to achieve by shortening this e-election time. The vice-chairman who wishes to remain nameless of the Centre Party has said that this is the first step towards the complete elimination of the e-vote. Soot and IRL say that this e-vote is actually a very good thing, but this good thing doesn't have to last that long. I want to hear your opinion now. Do you think the e-vote is disappearing or going as IRL and SD want, i.e. the good thing is less?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U38	Thank you. Let's start with where you started, maybe electronic identification. Indeed, the basis of the Estonian online success story is that we can identify a person by electronic means. Its backbone has been the X-Road, which combines different services, from banking services to issuing driving licences. The charm of the X-Road has been that it is used as a backbone by both private companies and the state. And there is no such charm in other countries. Yeah, Finland tried to build its own X-road, but it didn't come out. Now, with the help of the Estonians, they are building a system similar to the one we have. And in a situation where we have created a secure e-vote, to say that we are burying it, although it has worked since the 2005 elections, i.e. for 12 years, would be a very wrong signal. Steve Jobs once said that people don't know that they want anything until you offer it to them. It was a bit the same with the e-vote. We created an opportunity for people to express their opinion using a secure electronic channel. And whether other, larger societies, come with it or not is their choice. As a small and successful digital state, we can be a pioneer. We have been road signs and we must also be road indicators in the future. If we do not want to be one, we will play off one very big chance of success in Estonia. I have used this example before on this very platform when we talked about the economy and its challenges. When William Lee invented a knitting machine in Britain, Queen Elizabeth I did not grant her a patent, thinking that it would take away the work from thousands of kniters. The French gave William Lee a patent, and eventually the knitting machine came along. It is practically impossible to stop progress politically. What the coalition wants to do now is stop progress. We want to move forward with progress by extending the time of the e-vote and also looking for new ways of using e-channels. This is where the world is going, and stopping it with political force is a state suicide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U39	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I've been lucky to be in the mayor's office and the minister's office and drive around the world. And no matter which country we went to, whether Sweden or Vietnam, Estonia's e-governance and e-services were very much discussed and wanted to be part of the knowledge and experience gained in Estonia at both national and local government level. If the current government and coalition so clearly question the e-vote, they actually question the entire progressive story of the evolution of our society and technology. We could continue from here to say that the way we deal with banks or the way we apply for different documents is very backward and unreliable. Why is the current coalition acting so uncooperatively?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U41	Thank you for your question. It's very hard to answer. As I said, the only answer is, in fact, that some sort of dogma has been thought of, that the e-vote must be abolished. But it's a step back to the past. We wouldn't want to start riding horses on the streets of Tallinn again, we still want to drive cars there. Actually, I'd like to drive electric cars to keep the environment safe. That's where the world's going. You have to look to the future, not the past. If you want to go back to the past, you can go back to the state order 25 or 26 years ago, right? Looking at the past will never take you to the future. That's all I can say. I say that e-vote is a sign. It's a sign question: a step here, a step there. Even if they say that the e-vote will remain, yes, it will, but the message has been issued. I wouldn't want to go to an operation that uses no modern means of numbing, but old methods. And going back in history certainly doesn't make us happy. So it's still my advice to look forward, not backwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U42	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U43	Thank you. I find it extremely regrettable that this debate has fallen, above all, from the side of the e-elections to a level where it is said that e-elections are not secure. And if you ask me what your arguments are, where are the examples and where errors have been identified, they say that my familiar programmers have started programming on paper, they don't trust computers anymore. I think this is ridiculous. In the engineering world, things are proven by action, mathematically shown if there are any mistakes. In my opinion, they have so far not been made or identified. But my question is broader and concerns Estonia's image. If as an engineer I have been to introduce e-Estonia to the world, we have been looked up. And e-services, from e-banking to e-health, have actually been the biggest part of our success story abroad. This pattern, which, unfortunately, is about to emerge, creates the scandals of Sputnik, NATO-scepticism, the destruction of the tax system, etc., creates a very negative image of Estonia abroad. Have your acquaintances abroad pointed that out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U44	Thank you for your question. I have received a signal, specifically mentioned here from Germany, that what is happening there in Estonia is not just about the e-vote, but more generally why the Estonian state makes such choices. Surprisingly, it is not the knowledge or news that Estonia intends to shorten the e-vote period, only within Estonia's borders, it will also come out. I think that here is the question that used to sound that the message to the leaders of the European Union when they come here is the very right one. How do we say that we are a digital tiger, we are making great progress and we are thinking about new e-developments in circumstances where we are actually prepared to emphasise one in this Chamber, I think, however, to make the time for an e-vote shorter at the request of one party? Although I said that the IRL and the Soccer have changed their principles, I actually believe that neither Raivo Time, who is sitting here now, nor those members of the IRL who are somewhere else, or those who are here and elsewhere, want to vote in favour of it. The voice of conscience is elsewhere, and only one party in the Central Party wishes to limit the e-vote. Of course they'd want to lose it. If they ruled alone, they'd lose it. So it's a message question. Outside, true, has been asked about it, and there is no good answer. The only answer is that the wish of the current Prime Minister's party is to lose the e-vote, and that they do not believe in the future of e-Estonia in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U45	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U46	Good manager! Good waitress! With astonishment, I hear in this House how the answerer does not answer a specific question as a rule and instead speaks his own story. I repeat: do the German Members of the digital committee of the German Parliament, who do not want e-elections in Germany, not trust the German state? And is the head of Christian Democrats Angela Merkel and his party associates hostages in the Central Party? Please answer directly!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U47	Thank you. I cannot answer for or on behalf of the members of the German parliamentary committee. That's what you have to ask them. I can express my opinion in the Estonian Parliament, the opinion of the Reform Party. We think this is the wrong way. We believe that countries have the opportunity and the right to choose and create a legal space. We have chosen and created a legal space for voting as if we had a multiplicity of voting methods. One of the voting methods is an electronic vote, which has been a very large part of Estonia's success story. And we have trusted the Estonian state, Estonia's e-vote. If you don't trust it, of course you want to lose it. Whether Germany is creating this possibility or not is their choice. I can't tell Germany what they want or have to do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U48	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U49	Estonia is, of course, ahead of Germany in digital technology and we have little to be ashamed of. But look, we have one thing in our subconscious that nobody wants to talk about. It is about electronic voting and its outcome being manipulated somewhere in favour of someone, such as some kind of evil force behind the Reform Party, etc. By comparison, Russia is doing everything it can to manipulate the elections. He does it in the United States, Macron talked to him, Theresa May is worried. In short, Russia is putting the full force on the table in order to forge the results of the elections in all countries. But nothing works out in Russia: it can only generate some kind of information noise, leaks and whatever, but it can't fake the results. The question now is that if all Russia cannot change the American election results, then in which Estonian garage are the people's artists who can change the election results in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U50	Thank you, Igor! You always have colorful questions. You mentioned Russia, but I actually said here earlier that we have also seen, in other countries, the usual method of election forgery: votes are put in ballot boxes in polls that have not been given by voters. So when we talk about paper elections being oi-oi as safe, their safety can only depend on those people who are in the polling district and those who are responsible for the security of the elections. I am convinced that the people responsible for Estonia's e-elections have a conscience in place and have done everything they can to ensure that Estonia's e-elections are secure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U51	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U52	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. In 2005 Estonia had its first e-elections and already then started working on a document entitled 'Good practice in e-voting'. At first, three major political parties joined it, and later, apart from one, all political parties that are represented in the Riigikogu have joined it, as well as the Greens of Estonia. Can you tell me what kind of party this party is that hasn't joined? And why do you think they haven't? After all, the point of this document is that all parties who join it will also make the most of the e-elections not only being honest but also seeming honest. And for one party that has refused to participate from the start, I have heard all kinds of rumors about how they have actually acted on the day of the elections and before the elections. But can you tell me why a large party has not joined the 'good practice of e-voting' agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U53	Thank you for your question. Apart from the parable, we understand that this is a party that has wanted to lose the e-vote at all, that is, the Centre Party. When you think about why, they know it best. But here it is worth telling a parable or historical story related to the abolition of the death penalty in Estonia. Is that folklore or a true story? I've been assured from sources that this is a true story. But the story was said to be as follows. When the parliamentary groups discussed the abolition of the death penalty because it was one of the absolute preconditions for accession to the European Union, one party had said that this must not be done, i.e. the death penalty must remain in Estonia. And then it is said that one Member of Parliament has told the other that we will agree so that your voters will retain it. I think the e-vote is a little bit the same. It could be agreed with the Centre Party that if they do not want to join the good practice, the Centre Party will voluntarily give up the e-voices given to them and they will only come to Parliament with the votes given to them in the department. If the Centre Party agrees with this, they can take this initiative by saying that they do not trust the e-voices and voluntarily give up the e-voices they have been given. And let's see how much the Centre Party is in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U54	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U55	Chairman! Good waitress! I agree with one hundred percent of your statements and statements on your party associates that we have to fight for innovation, we have to fight for the image of digital Estonia and e-state. But I am now asking this question: in the 21st century, when we talk about innovation and digital Estonia, do we still have to deal with it so naively and in such a simple way that its only output is the time of electronic or electronic elections, whether it be seven, four or ten days?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U56	Thank you for your question. Absolutely not! The success story of e-innovation and e-Estonia is closed in a large number of details, very many national developments and even bigger private sector developments. In many ways, the e-success story received a huge boost from the banks and thanks, for example, to the tax administration's ability to submit tax returns on behalf of the state. Look how high the percentage of income tax returns is today. People trust e-mails. Now, you asked if this was the only output. No, as I said, no, of course not, but there's a very big 'but' here, it's a message. Look, if we turn the ship's nose on the other side, it's like a one-time Lennart Meri Eskimo kayak and a big tanker comparison. Estonia must be flexible and fast like an Eskimo injection and ready to move to one side and the other. But if you want an image of an e-state that's like a big tanker, when we've already turned its nose somewhere, what do you want to do by shortening the time of the e-vote, it's going to be undisputedly difficult to turn it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U57	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be backwards and say that e-elections need to be reversed. But shouldn't we start from the beginning of the vote? I'd like to start over. Today we are talking only about a summary of the results, but not about the beginning of the vote. It is no secret to anyone and there is no need to hide your head in the sand that the e-voting of older people has exploded. It's clear that granddaughter and grandmother have set this thing up at the table. Should we not now change the law to make the vote uniform? My granddaughter and my grandmother could go to the booth and talk, "Hey, Grandma, who are we gonna pick out of here now? ' Should we not adjust the law in this regard, perhaps on the basis of an e-vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U59	Thanks for the interesting thought. If we send this bill to second reading, you can certainly add different ideas. However, I do not think that this particular proposal is a good proposal. The sameness of elections also means that if Grandma or Grandpa feels that someone has restricted or been affected by his sovereign right to vote, he can always go to the polling station and make his choice in the booth. I am also absolutely convinced that there are a large number of people who are discussing each other in the middle of the family, perhaps with friends to vote for. But the election procedure will eventually be carried out personally. Once again, it is possible for everyone to choose the method of election that they want. Even abroad, it is possible to go to the Estonian embassy and give your vote in the elections. So we have a lot of election methods, and everyone chooses the most suitable for themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U60	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U61	Thank you, dear waitress. You politely told the Centre Party that you cannot decide for Germany. However, perhaps you are trying to comment differently that if Estonia decided in the German way, what would it miss? A little clue to this is the words 'ID-card' or 'public internet'. How would you describe the world that Estonia should embrace if we listened to the opinion of this important committee at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U62	Thank you. As regards the dissemination of the public Internet, I believe that it is actually very good in Germany and is growing. It is also possible to find very adequate estimates of the spread of the Internet on the European Commission's website. Digital report gives a pretty good overview of the spread of e-services in different countries. By the way, in the case of Estonia, private sector investments in technology and IT development are mentioned as one of the areas to be improved. It is true that these services of convenience, of which the most widely used public service certainly is the declaration of revenue, have the greatest advantage. But for all e-services, not only is the declaration of income, but also the login of the bank will actually begin with what I said before I answered one question, i.e. the identification of the person. And this is something that we have: ID-card and increasingly mobile ID are ways of identifying which, in this form, very few other countries have. You can log in to the Estonian business register using the Lithuanian ID card. The Estonian business register recognises Portuguese ID. The Estonian Business Register recognises Finnish identification. There's still a few of them. This is where our task is, in fact, to promote strongly, as President-in-Office of the European Union, so that European countries, including Germany, can have electronic identification. This is crucial. In Germany, it is already possible through bank channels in the private sector, but as we used to be: password cards and other ways are used, not ID cards. But this is the principle of a secure personal identification to confirm that it is a mobile user or a computer user who has done this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U63	George Jaanson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! There has been a lot of talk here today about religion and distrust over the whole electoral system and also about the e-vote. At the same time, I believe that the different voting methods are actually balancing one another or distrusting one another and, to sum up, still increasing turnout. There's no point in talking about progress here. But I have a question about security. Which voting method is actually safer on the basis of peer reviews, given both voting and counting votes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U65	Thank you. We've described it here a little bit. The Estonian Election Committee and the National Information System Authority have repeatedly confirmed that Estonia's e-vote is secure. As far as the counting of votes or other means of voting is concerned, we have also described this here on the basis of different countries. In other words, yes, paper votes have also been considered problematic in different countries. So when someone says that it is not possible to fake votes when voting on paper, it is absolutely not true. It is also possible to forge votes in paper voting, and this has been repeatedly proven in different countries. I very much hope that Estonia will not be counterfeited. As a guarantee of this, as I said in answering one of the earlier questions, only the credibility of those people who are in the polling station who are responsible for keeping ballot boxes overnight and who are responsible for having the same seals on them when the ballot boxes are opened. And the polls need to be counted several times. This is the principle that we must also trust in the paper vote and we must trust the people in the polls who count votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U66	Siret Eagle-Repinski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U67	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! What you are talking about, e-banking and e-income declarations, is all very right that people are using and wanting to use these services. You also know why this is so, and then there's a very clear trail. However, in the case of e-elections, a specific trace such as e-declarations or e-banking will not be left behind. But it's just a line for your upbringing. But here's my question. In 2003 Märt Rask was right here on the Riigikogu's board and said that e-elections are useful because, first of all, they bring all the people to the youngest. But as we can see, the younger people have not really come to choose. Secondly, he said that e-elections will be introduced immediately, following the example of Estonia as a whole in Europe. Why, then, has Europe not actually introduced it if it is as safe as you say it is? And why is Russia interested in this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U68	Thank you. You don't need to teach me or raise me. I'll be fine growing up, and I'll listen to those who give me authority. With regard to your claims about e-elections and that they are about to come to the vote, look at the statistics. Very simple: In 2005 local elections there were 9287 e-voting people and in 2011 Riigikogu elections only six years later, 140000 e-voting people. If you say that this is not a significant increase, i.e. from 9,000 to 140,000, then I think you yourself will admit that this is not true. You say young people don't choose. Yes, they do, they also choose the elderly, they choose the middle-aged, they all choose the middle-aged. If you say that you do not trust the e-vote, it is your right to say so. But I'll say it again: let's do an experiment so let the Centre Party give up its e-voices. Let's do it! Do you agree with that? Give up your e-voices and come to Parliament only with the votes that have been cast at the station. Don't want to quit? It's your choice. So you're going to accept the e-voices you're giving, but you're going to say no, it's not good enough for us. The way they're given isn't good enough, but you will. Then why are you accepting them? Don't act against your principles! If you say that the e-vote doesn't work, give up those votes. So be consistent here, too. If you want to adopt e-voices, support the e-vote. Support this draft, so that the time for e-votes is longer, so that there will be more votes. By the way, I am absolutely convinced that if the e-vote was longer, there would be a surprise-surprise! More votes for the Centre Party, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U69	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U70	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good performer! If you're asking not to be taught, please don't teach the remote middle party. In the case of e-election opponents, it is pointed out that why they do not provide evidence. But for the sake of dialogue, those who are in favour could also listen to them more, and some people, who are not only middle party, could be given their own evidence. There are people in your ranks who went to the station to choose. There are people like that in this very hall today. For the sake of dialogue, listen to them and answer their questions and problems! Just by ramming, that you are anti-progress, there is no convergence in any of the positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U71	Thank you. Of course, everyone has the right to an opinion. If there are people in this Chamber who are going to the polling station on Sunday, this is a perfectly acceptable option. As I said, we have a multiplicity of electoral methods, everyone chooses what is right for themselves. Some people may have a tradition in the family. And traditions are very important, they must be respected. So I will certainly not say in advance which method of election a person must take, but I am categorically opposed to the elimination of one of the electoral methods from Estonia that the Centre Party has wished for. Nor will I ever agree with that, because the multiplicity of electoral methods gives people the opportunity to choose. And the more people have choices, the greater the probability that our turnout will not fall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U72	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U73	Thank you. Good performer! We have told people that you should definitely come to the polling station and vote there, because e-elections are not safe. But here's my question. Please tell me whether it is better for the head of the nursing home to vote alone instead of other people, or if the person is alone in the polling station in his cab.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U74	Thank you. If you are aware of such examples, I do not know which nursing home you are talking about, please also provide specific evidence. In that case, the police will deal with this, because it will be a misdemeanor. The police will handle it. Once again, the client of the same nursing home can also order a voting box at home. That is the multiplicity of electoral methods. And if someone violates the outcome of any of the elections, it will be held accountable just as if the ballots were illegally placed in the ballot box at the station.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U75	Please, Siret Eagle-Repinski!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U76	Thank you, good waitress. You were talking about absolute numbers earlier. We will now return from 2005 to 2015 and to the proportion of young people in the elections. Then you will see very clearly that in 2015, in any case, there were more old people voting than young people. Thus, the purpose of the e-elections, with which Märt Rask came, who presented that it would immediately bring us bliss and that all young people would come to vote, actually bear fruit. You also did not answer the question of why other European countries have not introduced e-elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U77	I said before, in reply to Mr Ernits' question about Germany, that it is the choice of each country itself. But one of the main reasons is that countries have not been able to create a national electronic identity card. That is one reason, but there are certainly other reasons. Each country chooses its own path and way. You see, here's a review that I just recently received from a good groupmate. The Victoria State Parliament has taken stock of the electronic vote. There are a lot of election methods. There are also different ways of electronic voting. Some countries also allow you to choose electronically at the polling station: you go to the precinct and tap into your electronic selection. We have chosen the path that can be done safely using an ID-card. I now come to the'structure' of young people and voters at all. I am very pleased that more and more elderly people are taking advantage of the opportunity to... It's gonna be hard to answer you if you don't listen. I am very pleased that more and more older people are taking advantage of the e-vote. This is one way to extend the possibility for people with a medical disorder to participate in elections. No matter what reason a person chooses to vote electronically, it is his choice either because he is more comfortable, either because his health doesn't allow him to go to the station or because he thinks that's the right thing to do. It's everyone's choice. Just like going to the precinct if you want to go to the precinct, you're going to the precinct. And that's it. But to send a message that we're shortening this period, we think it's wrong. Rather, you should go to the other side or, at the very least, keep it the same. Don't poke the thing that works! Don't poke!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U78	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! More and more of the Centre Party's questions give the impression that one or the other social group will win when electronic voting works. I think we need to disprove this myth. This isn't an adequate debate. We can, in principle, debate the credibility and security of both the paper vote and the ID vote. But I want to ask you that some people are trying to say that somebody else is standing with you and affecting your I.D. vote. I think there's a very reasonable way to neutralize it: you can go to the station on election day and vote on it. This action is pointless, knowing that it is possible to change that voice. So any such action is already doomed when a person knows what he really wants to do, even at the moment when someone is trying to influence him in an electronic vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U80	Yeah, that's right! I come to these different groups or to where you started your question. Quite recently, on 9 March, senior researcher at the University of Tartu, Kristjan Vassil, said that e-choice is safe and in no way tilt the result of the election. Similarly, Kristjan Vassil said that all political parties will win in terms of election results and that the e-vote will not be any different from the written, ordinary vote in its structure. He's been doing a lot of research. I also recommend that the Centre Party invite Kristjan Vassil to speak to a group. He gives you the assurance that the surprise-surprise, despite all the efforts made to eliminate the e-elections, is also among the supporters of the Centre Party people who take advantage of the e-vote option.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U81	Thank you, good waitress. Please tell me why, for example, Norway recently tried e-elections, but gave them up sharply. Why did the Netherlands and France give up recently and finally?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U82	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U83	Once again, we have already talked about this here. It's every country's choice. Countries have had major problems with electronic identification. We do not have this problem, our electronic identification is secure and secure. If you come to your fears, I am happy to read to you what Kristjan Vassil says. 'Good Centre Party and present coalition partners! Your fear of an e-vote lies not in its security, but in the fear that your party will receive fewer votes because of it [---]. ' He says that both fears are not justified and they have shown in research that the e-vote does not tilt the election results. 'People change the way they participate in elections, not the preference to vote. We have also seen that on average only 2% of e-voters vote more than once. " So there is no basis for your fears. Deal with it! You do not have to face the fear that, if you lose the e-vote now, your election results will get better. No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U84	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U85	I will continue with the previous question. I haven't been to Norway, but I haven't been to Holland and France. And I can confirm that the digital development of the Netherlands and France is indeed lagging behind us, say, by 30 to 40 years: free wifi is a very big problem, iPad does not work in Burgundy, etc. These are the hard facts of real life. I think it is very important that we never forget as strange as it is, that there are very developed countries, including Germany, France and the Netherlands, who are, in fact, completely behind us in one area. And that is why I ask you whether it is appropriate to use this type of argument in the future, that there is no e-voting in the islands of Vanuatu, Ethiopia, Mauritania, the Netherlands and so on. Can we even take this as an argument?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U86	Thank you. In my opinion, it can always be used as an argument if anyone wants to. But as a counter argument, we must always use the fact that Estonia is a milestone. Yeah, we are, let's show the world the way. Let's say how it is possible to declare revenue electronically, how things can be done in the bank, how it is possible to look at the children's school results, how it is possible to order a driving licence home and how many more e-channels can be used. That's our success story. That's where we're going. That's the road we're gonna show the world. So if no one adopts the e-vote, it is their choice. We can say we've got it working. This has been confirmed several times that it has no effect on the structure of the votes received in elections, a secure and very good opportunity to expand people's voting methods.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U87	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You've made a number of false statements from this remote control, and for the sake of the verbatim, I'd like to check them out. You have said that on election day you can change an electronic voice with a paper note at the polling station. There's no way. This is not in law, and even real human trials have shown that when a person has voted electronically and goes to the polling station, he is not allowed to choose there. The Centre Party is planning to give this opportunity, i.e. the opportunity to give electronic votes also on election day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U89	I'm sorry, but we're here. Or what law do you read? The Local Government Council Election Act, the Riigikogu Election Act and the European Parliament Election Act allow a person to give a paper vote on election day and then takes into account the vote given on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U90	Dmitri Dmitriev.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U91	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I'm looking at the age structure of e-voting. For example, in the Riigikogu elections, the number of voters was just over 11,000 in 2011-12 and in 2015 the number of voters aged 55+ was just over 29,000 in 2011 and 44000 in 2015. So obviously, the goal of young people voting more electronically has not been fulfilled. At the same time, you said that you are pleased that older people vote more like this. But how can we be sure that this is their choice, not the choice of another person with their ID card? How do we justify a situation where people of 90+ age, for example, who otherwise do not use a computer, are actively voting during the e-elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U92	Thank you. How can we be sure that you will also make your choice at the polling station as you think? See, the question is, everyone chooses. And if you don't want to dial electronically, you can always go to the station. You will choose the election method according to your wishes. As regards the increase in the number of older people in the electoral structure, unfortunately, Estonia's population pyramid is changing. And not in the direction of getting younger as a nation, but in the direction of getting older people. People who were working at the time of the e-vote also reach retirement age. And so it is normal for people who are already used to using bank channels or other e-channels during their working lives to choose electronic channels when they reach retirement age. So there's nothing weird about it. As I said, this is one of the electoral methods and it is not reasonable to shorten its duration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U93	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U94	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, We are still reading the same law, and this issue has also been discussed with the Republic Election Commission. At the moment, it is not possible to change your voice with a paper note at the station. If this were an option, the current technological solution would in no way be able to read electronic votes at 8:00 sharp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U95	Thank you. Let's count it together for the law, let's look at it. As far as the paper votes are concerned... I say once again, as I also answered the previous question: if anyone has doubts, you do not have to choose electronically at all. It's a completely free choice for a human being. But the bill you've made for the coalition is halfway through your own perspective. Why didn't you submit a bill to eliminate the e-elections at all? So be brave and present this bill without the consent of the coalition partners. Let's see if it gets votes or doesn't. You can also put this draft alone in Parliament's proceedings. Put in the process a draft with which you want to lose the e-vote. Let us see if this goes through the large Chamber of Parliament or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U96	Johannes Kert.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U97	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our colleagues from the Centre Party may have the impression that Estonia is the only country in the world where e-elections take place. In digitally more advanced Southeast Asia, for example, Malaysia is a country with exactly the same solution as electronic identification in Estonia and where e-voting works successfully in both local and national elections. Japan is preparing this and will probably introduce e-voting in its country in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U98	Thank you for these comments. I agree with you that, in fact, those who are technologically more advanced will take advantage of the e-vote on one day or another anyway. This is the natural course of things, and I don't see that there is any way to reverse this progress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U99	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will come back for a moment to Mr Dmitriev's question, in which I found a discriminatory note with regard to the 55+ age group, as if they were unable to act in the digital and electronic world. How do you feel that mature age is some kind of obstacle to the digital world, including participation in e-elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U101	Thank you for a good question. Absolutely not. Each does not determine in any way whether a person can choose or not and whether he or she is free in his or her decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U102	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U103	President-in-Office and honourable speaker. We have heard here over the past six months and a year how Russia has actively, aggressively and electronically intervened in the electoral process in other countries. Do you not see here the danger that e-elections could also be a very attractive target for Russia in our case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U104	Thank you. I think that Russia is intervening very strongly not only in the electoral process of other countries, but also in its own country. There is repeated evidence of violation of the paper ballots and notes. And if Russia wants to intervene in the electoral process, it does not only have to do so using digital channels, it can do so in other ways. The people responsible for the security of our e-governance are responsible for ensuring the security of the elections and for ensuring that attacks against the Estonian electoral system do not take place.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U105	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U106	Thank you. Good waitress! I am currently reading the Riigikogu Election Act. For example, § 48 says that the voter has the right to change his or her electronically given vote by voting again electronically or by voting with a ballot paper from the tenth day to the fourth day before the election day. Do you understand what colleagues are saying about the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U107	Thank you. I understand Erki Savisaar referred to election day. But the truth is that an electronic vote can be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U108	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Helmut Hallemaa, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, makes a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U109	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take stock of the 401 debates that took place in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I would like to say right away, as an introduction, that I usually talk about this at the end of a procedural decision: this draft was decided to be put on the agenda by 17 May. Unfortunately, this did not get to the debate in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, and I am really sorry about that. I was ready, I had a call in my pocket the whole time, and maybe I fell asleep with the call in my pocket. The Reform Party, which here accused that the vote was taking place in the dark of the night, was, in fact, no longer in the Chamber by the time of this debate. And I also draw their attention to the nature-related.. Estonia now has almost white nights. While the vote took place between six and seven o'clock, it was actually quite white in this Chamber. This draft was submitted to the proceedings by the Reform Party on 13 March. The Commission held a debate on 9 May. A debate was then held on two drafts on a proposal from the chairman of the committee and the joint minutes are number 114. The 400 elements of the draft are the harmonisation of the electronic electoral period, as well as the other pre-vote periods, and the transfer from the current seven to four days. The proposal for a draft reform party is to move them to ten days. By passing on the debate on the draft act, I will now try to withdraw from the protocol the part concerning draft 401. But first of all, the draft 400 was presented by Anneli Ott and draft 401 not by today's waitress Hanno Pevkur, but by Lauri Luik. It must be said that there was a substantive and serious debate within the Commission, without political labelling and without an adequate approach. At the same time, we addressed all these issues, which were also in this Chamber today, from different angles, from wall to wall. Mr Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, Adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Mr Mihkel Pilving, Adviser to the State Election Service, took the floor as invited representatives. The election service advisor Sandra Elken and the press adviser Eva Vahur of the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu also participated. In addition to the rapporteurs, Mr Aas, Ms Ott, Mr Vaher, Mr Nutt, Mr Laane, Mr Hallemaa and Mr Adams spoke. Everyone got it. The Commission's discussion was primarily about the length of the electronic selection period. I myself asked Mihkel Pilving, who I think is one of Estonia's best known electoral experts, as the length of this period affects voting activity in elections. Mihkel Pilving's answer was that most electronic votes are given on two days: the first day, i.e. at the beginning of the electronic selection and the last day, i.e. at the end of the electronic selection. And his expert's assessment was that, in fact, the length of this election period, be it seven, four or ten days, in particular a political decision, does not significantly affect the turnout. Security, however, does not seem to me to be a question of ridicule. This was also mentioned in the Commission. Mihkel Pilving's assessment was that the Estonian elections have so far been relatively safe He appreciated that this side had been constantly improved and improved and that it had become safer from election to election. There is now also a system of verification, which also allows the voters to see whether their voice moved forward and was taken into account. But security in the context of what was being discussed here today. After all, our media, as well as the many political parties in this Chamber, have highlighted the insecurity of the elections in the large countries. So, in fact, security can always be increased. And I think it's definitely very important. The chairman of the committee, Ken-Marti Vaher, also asked several times why the ten days have been chosen. Lauri Luik, who made the report in the Commission, said that this is an estimated and precise technical and legal justification, why it is not ten days that the drafters do not have. The question of uniformity gave rise to a major discussion, but it primarily concerned the alignment of the draft 400, i.e. the electronic voting period, with the pre-vote period, in order to set both lengths four days. The committee chairman also asked why this period could not be longer and why there could not be a longer period of voting in the booth in the future. Well, I guess the last one's got a lot to do with the expense. But certainly these things are possible, which was emphasised by a number of speakers during the work of the Commission. And as stated above, Mihkel Pilving believes that the length of this period is still primarily a matter of political choice. In the final part of the Commission's work, Kalle Laane considered it important to say that the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice on the drafts is needed. I myself emphasised more in the previous discussion, but it also ran very seriously through the speeches here, that no method of election is going to be abolished by either of these drafts, nor by 400 or 401. Electronic voting, pre-voting, voting in the booth at the polling station, ordering home in the ballot box on election day and all other options remain. It's just that the periods are getting evener. I myself have been on the electoral side on several occasions, not only as a voter, but also as an organizer, and I assure you that, in fact, this disunity of periods is quite confusing among voters. So actually, these periods should be evener. Finally, the Commission also took other procedural decisions. It was proposed to reject the draft (by 5 votes to 4) and the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is before you (it was a consensual decision). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U110	Any questions? Lauri Luik, it's possible to ask two questions, you'd be the third. No questions for the waitress. Thank you, dear waitress. I will open negotiations on the general principles of the draft law. And since this is a first reading, representatives from all the political groups will get the floor. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin for the Centre Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U111	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, It was a remarkable debate, it will be remembered on several points. I learned that Estonia is technologically ahead of Norway, the Netherlands and France. It's strange that Estonians work in Norway and Holland, but the Dutch and the French come to us like no match. We learned that we are on the same level as Malaysia, which is a huge plus that is clear. And it also became clear that Malaysia also has several heads above that level in France and the Netherlands. It's one small discovery, but still. We also learned that some members of the opposition are not listening well. When a member of the coalition asks about people who are 90+, they become those who are 55+. And this is seriously being discussed here instead of explaining that it was 90+, not 55+. So many of these very interesting things. I came back to life with a conviction. I've spent my life, as long as I've been in politics, admiring the Reform Party. I've always looked to them with great hope, because if anyone saves the world, of course, it's the Reform Party. And I'm not gonna rule out that there's gonna be a talented reform party, shows me some pills in a glass cup, and says, "Look, we invented them, now you're gonna take them, and you're gonna be absolutely healthy until you die." Some people do, but some normal people ask if they were tested before. Oh, did you have to test it? Oh, my God, we put chalk and diethyl in here, all that crap, and we think it'll keep you healthy. Why not? Or maybe someone with talent who's put the plane together has built it. And we have a problem: I'd like to start flying it, but has it been tested? You're told no, why. We're the smartest, maybe without a test. Why not? If anyone thinks there's someone in this room against electronic voting, it's not really. Actually, there's a few things to do. The first thing is testing. The Netherlands, Norway, France and Sweden refused to introduce an electronic vote only after they had tested the system. But you guys haven't done it. How do I know if he's working or not working? Point one, this will be done very simply: a competition will be announced and a modest prize will be put out. EUR 10,000 will still make the weakest hackers work. And in a few weeks, you'll find out how it happened that a person who gets a couple hundred votes in a polling station gets 5,000 electronically. It would be interesting for me to find out how that is possible. Point two that needs to be done. Make sure that electronic voting is really secret. You're talking about an old man who's 90+ suddenly becoming so active that he needs a touch. In fact, I would point out that he doesn't need a touch for four years, then he needs a touch, he votes off, and again he doesn't need it for four years, i.e. until the next election. How have we suddenly become so active in these elderly homes and some other organizations? You won't let us control that. I would remind you that there were recently some elections where a large party received two mandates. Then there was a break, there was an hour between the electoral commission and Stenbock's house, and suddenly it turned out that there were no two mandates, however, one. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U112	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U113	It was so easy. Why are all these technical results destroyed so quickly? You're talking about it being reliable. Give us a check! How can that be? You are like the old and clear social system, which said that in 1980, for example, all people have their own apartments, that they live in separate apartments. And everyone applauds, and there's no need for proof. Nobody's gonna check after that, nobody wants to know what's really happening and what's going on. You took over the old ideology in such a way that you would allow it, but you wouldn't allow it to be controlled. It is not a question of anyone rejecting an electronic vote, but prove that it is not possible to vote collectively. Prove that the votes they give me don't go to anyone else's hands. And one final remark: we need to respect our fellow Members! If you come to this remote control, you really need to know the material. And to tell you that it is possible to change the electronic voice on the election day with a Bulletin vote, to argue here, to spin it out afterwards, and to think that this is the way it should be, is somehow wrong. I still have some comments on the knowledge of this law, but I am not going to bring them up right now. Anyway, it's a matter of technology. It's a question of testing. The question is, not everyone would believe it, but they would know that this is the way it is. For God's sake, we're all good speakers here, but to compare electronic voting and making a declaration, believe me, it's like comparing a finger and... Anyone who knows Russian knows what I'm talking about right now. When I fill out an electronic declaration, I'll give you my name and all my data and I'll have feedback. If I vote, it has nothing to do with this: I do not give my name and I do not get feedback. If you compare these things, you still don't get it at all. But otherwise, the Reform Party will be very good and we will be waiting for you to save us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U114	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U115	Mr President, I would like to ask for more time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U116	Please, eight minutes in total!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U117	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our group of the Free Party is not in favour of reducing the current volume of electronic selection, but rather of increasing it. I was able to speak on behalf of the group at a meeting on 24 May at night on a draft by the political groups of the government coalition competing with this draft, which reduced the time of electronic election. That is why I will mark the content of this speech here with only a few sentences. The content of my speech was that we in Estonia are currently having a great deal of confusion with what the word 'uniformity' means in the Constitution. I argued that this was a political term that originated in the first constitution of the French Republic, and it has a certain meaning. In particular, when it is said that elections are uniform, this means that the weight of the vote of each participant in the election is exactly the same as the weight of the vote of each participant in the election. This does not mean that technically voting must be the same for everyone. Several of the people who were here today asking about this meaning, especially the middle party, were probably not in the hall at that time. They need to go over it. Unfortunately, the main rapporteur, Mr Pevkur, has not been very informed about this either. But I believe he is a man of learning ability and will speak of this term in a more precise sense. What about the main dispute, whether electronic selection is reliable enough or unsafe? It has to be said here that whoever has learned a little bit about physics knows that all things that spread in the form of electromagnetic waves are never quite safe in absolute terms. Technically, at least in principle, it is always possible to capture one electromagnetic wave and explore what information it carries and replace it with some other information. It's an elementary thing, why do you have to repeat it? This needs to be repeated because opponents of electronic voting constantly confuse it when someone's physicist says that yes, there is no ultimate security, and at the same time all practitioners say that from the point of view of practice, it is safe enough. Our electronic voting is no less secure than, for example, our electronic banking, which we almost all use. Of course, there are people among the Estonian people who never use electronic banking for any reason, but it does not discredit the matter. Now, if we look at whether we've had the relevant experience or the dangers ahead, I'm saying that the most likely danger lies in some kind of computer virus program that might somehow interfere with things. It's less likely that some kind of hostile force is technically capable of deliberately interfering with our electronic selection. It's a black-scenario issue. In principle, this assumption could also be recorded. In some polling station, all the results are forged by some horrible enemy appearing in some mysterious gas, sleeping all the members of the electoral commission, taking the ballot box and replacing the notes there with others, then waking up the members of the electoral commission who do not realize that something has happened in the meantime. Forging the results of electronic selection is about the same scenario and with the same probability. But some kind of computer virus is a more serious threat. And I'm going to go over what I said that night. In our group's opinion, Estonia must always maintain a fall-back option so that, should anything unexpected happen, that elections need to be repeated without the possibility of electronic selection, we have this readiness. One issue is that who are those people who do not trust in electronic elections, and why they say so. Some people are undoubtedly the ones who have been hunted up by the propagandists of the Central Party, who claim to be so, though, confusing reasoning and also claiming that uniformity is not guaranteed. It's hard to do anything with these people. There are people who obviously do not accept this in any way, they do not basically want electronic elections, and we cannot prohibit them. But there are also people for whom the reason why they mistrust e-elections is because they don't trust people who operate around e-elections. And I think that's a pretty serious question. Look, when the Soviet power collapsed, there was a situation that no person believed that there would ever be fair and credible elections in Estonia, because we had 50 years of experience that in Soviet times all the election results were counterfeit. And how did they get over it? They got over it pretty easily. In particular, first, the electoral commissions were sought to gather as reliable as possible, and second, representatives of all interested parties were sent to the electoral commissions. It's been 25 years now, and the fears that were then are almost gone. In my opinion, we have failed to do anything about this electronic selection, too. Maybe there aren't enough observers. Well, there are some reasons. Obviously, Mr Pevkur, this is not a question of the level of the Republic Election Commission, but of the level of specialists and staff serving it. So I propose that, if we have a chance to deal with this issue a little bit more, some measures should be taken to increase the credibility of the main actors and technical staff. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U118	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U119	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! You would think that this whole idea of e-election drying up is such a big shame that will simply pass through this hall and will be voted on how to vote. But it turns out that you can't be too ashamed to know or understand how stupid a story is actually being made against this e-vote. I don't know if it shows more paranoia or ignorance, but obviously both. It is difficult to imagine such illogical talk from people with higher education who have been elected to Parliament. Let's start at the end first. Mikhail Stalnukhin ironed that Estonia could in no way be technologically more advanced than Western Europe. I am sorry, but Estonia is precisely the place that is technologically more advanced than Europe in general. In certain sectors, he is an indisputable world leader. This list undoubtedly includes e-votes, but also part of e-health, the e-Tax Board and, of course, e-banking. We're the top of the line. We're the top of the line. There is still a conference on this issue in Tallinn, which I think will be broadcast live on the Postimees portal. We're going to see these things, and there's nothing to be ashamed of. We are also more advanced than Germany. Why are we? Maybe we've also been more flexible and happier in some places. But in Germany there are legal restrictions, for example concerning the public internet, and there is no ID card. The ID card and the X-Road are one of the key issues, which depends on why others do not. They haven't made it, they're afraid of ID-cards and other personal identification electronic ways. And there is certainly a very large part of this behind e-elections. But, of course, it's their free choice. There are always arguments why not, but the question is that we are already doing it. We're already doing everything on the e-way, and why should we turn this thing back? It's incredibly stupid here to talk about how, you see, young people still don't have to choose. We have an e-vote, but young people still don't have to choose. Hey, tell me what young people do today according to the law of the country! You used to. I was one exception who didn't make it very often, didn't agree to follow the Soviet rule, but most young people did things by order, and everything was organized. No way these days! They won't even read books. They sit in electronic channels, even though we teach them to listen, read, and write. But no, they're sitting there. I'm sure they won't be able to run them anywhere on a certain day. That would be ridiculous. This trend, the participation of young people, would fall to a pulp if we didn't give them an opportunity to e-voting. It's the kind of comfort they understand, it's their trend, it's what they do. The increase in e-voting activity in all age groups is a fact. And the fact is, young people don't go to precincts anymore. For a long time, there was a stumbling block here about why you can't or whether you can change votes and see Hanno Pevkur suddenly say something wrong. What are we arguing about? Can you change the sound of the paper? So have you guys been going all this time to change the sound of paper? If you vote in the preliminary vote, will you normally go and change it? Or are you gonna run from one booth to another on election day and change my mind and change your voice? You are attacking the e-vote because an e-voice cannot be exchanged on a specific day, it can only be exchanged on other days. And it can only be changed for ten days. What are you talking about? How often do you change that voice yourself? Where's the problem? If there was a little school education, there wouldn't have been such questions. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U120	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U121	Of course, your paranoia can drive a lot of people crazy and explain that it's not reliable. But please, very nicely, by the way, Jüri Adams talked about this, I'm not gonna duplicate it, where's the confidence in paper voices? The whole world is full of accusations of misrepresentation. In countries where such things are possible, where social control is weak, voices are counterfeited, but it is always the sound of paper that is being forged. And technically, it could be very well described how our country could also forge paper votes, but the elections are still taking place. The final result is exactly as Jüri Adams said, yes, one hundred percent of the secure thing doesn't exist, but what we do here is safe enough in practice. And what's the big difference? If there is virtually no sign of counterfeiting of the paper vote, this is the way to do it in theory, then it is not known that this can be done in the case of electronic voting. There's still a trace that there's been some kind of movement. It's still a chance that the forger gets caught in case he tries. And he knows he's gonna get caught. So it's really stupid to say that there's no sign of how someone voted. Is that the mark on the paper vote? Take a look at the verbatim shit people's been talking about. Of course, in 2017, we can talk about this patchy story of the earth and say that you can prove right away that the earth is not flat. And what are you talking about? If you couldn't prove it, it's flat. But it would be a huge setback if we stayed behind it and rethinked our whole world, so yes, look, this proof is not now what happens. Personally, I'm not very interested in this whole technology thing because of the enormous trust. The technology people have done a prep job for me. It's an infrastructure that I operate and think about. But on the counter-arguments I hear, the technology people are laughing out all the arguments that have sounded in this hall. I have heard this, although I have not considered it necessary to get into the subject. People here are saying that they have spent their lives dealing with how to expose the mistakes of the e-vote, but all their arguments have been refuted a thousand times. And what happened today in this Chamber allows me to consider myself a very large e-expert and to trust even more the e-vote, because the opponents are so ridiculous with their arguments and so inadequacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U122	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U123	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's a discussion, if you can call it a discussion, it's gone completely insane here. Is this a discussion when the opponent is labeled as an idiot, stupid, flat-faced advocate of worldview? Come on, I'm sorry, grow up! The question is not whether we believe that the e-choice system is secure, but whether it really is. It's like we're some kind of pioneers who walk in the leading lines of e-development all over the world, and the whole world lingers far and wide behind us. Look around the world! What's going on? We are no longer the leaders of the world, but we are the ones who linger upon the world. In other parts of the world, e-developments are being made, and we only write it down. Well, we can do something ourselves from time to time, but we're not predecessors. The whole world doesn't use e-elections. And this is not because they are lagging behind, but vice versa, because other countries have realised that it is not possible to guarantee the security of e-elections now in this form. Only we are the fools who believe it is safe, and who force others to believe, who doubt it, because there is no proof or evidence of it. They're being forced to believe. Well, I'm sorry, if it's safe, why be afraid of international audit, international experts and experts? After all, they would come and review our applications, our electoral systems, and assure us that indeed, everything is safe. I'm two-armed for e-elections. I don't have anything against it, it's really fast, convenient and modern. But as long as I just have to believe it's safe, I don't believe it. I want concrete evidence. I have a personal experience of my own, a concrete proof that e-elections are not secure. This application, which dates back to 2005, which in itself is completely absurd about today's IT development, has errors, there are mistakes. In 2011, I applied as an individual candidate to the Riigikogu. And do you think I could get an e-voice? No, I didn't. The voters turned to me for trouble, you can't get a vote. I turned to the Electoral Commission and the case finally went out to the Supreme Court. And what did they say? Oh, that's okay! So what if one candidate named Mr. Põllea cannot be given an e-voice? Anyone can go and give it to him on paper. That's absurd! If it were you reform partyists, you know, who are all fighting here, i.e. impossible to put the pros behind the names of the members of the other parties and choose you, would you be pleased with that? I'm sure you wouldn't. There are very many reasons for doubting the security of e-elections, not to mention that he is completely directly against the Constitution. Everyone's fighting over this deadline, whether we extend three days or shorten five days, is pointless. If it wasn't for e-choice crap, then we shouldn't fight each other here, we shouldn't fight each other, we should try to convince each other, we should try to make us believe that the earth is flat and that e-choice is safe, because someone just says that it's safe. Well, it doesn't take concrete evidence, a specific audit. And if we go through with it, there you go! I guess there wouldn't be any people in this hall who wouldn't believe. Even those who are called idiots here, and I don't know who they are, the unbelieving Thomas, would vote with two hands for the e-elections. So let's start by proving, not believing that e-elections are safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U124	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 401 at first reading. That means voting procedure for us. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 401 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 47 votes in favour and 31 against, with no abstentions. The draft has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Second item: Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party... Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U125	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural question. Are the voices that said that we should agree with the Commission safe?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U126	So far, we have considered the votes given under the voting procedure to be sufficiently secure. Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U127	Thank you. Reply to Mr Near: these two systems are completely incomparable. And if you find them similar, that's what shows the whole Reform Party's understanding of security.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U128	Thanks for the line. However, I must admit that the line of Henn Põllea was not among the procedural questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U129	Let's continue our routine procedures! Second item: First reading of Bill 421 of the Amendment to the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Aivar Sõerd, a member of the Riigikogu, is a waitress at the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In Estonian tax law, the principle that spouses can submit a joint tax return has been in force all along the way. In essence, this means that all income and deductions are added in the joint tax return. The possibility of submitting a joint declaration with extensive tax changes imposed by the current coalition at the end of last year was abolished. Only the possibility of jointly declaring interest on a mortgage, training costs and additional tax-free income for child maintenance was retained, while the limit on deductions cannot be passed on to the spouse. The joint declaration makes it possible to make better use of the exemption limits and is particularly useful when one of the spouses has not received the exemption. The situation has now arisen that, due to this legislative amendment, a joint declaration could be submitted for the last time this spring for 2016. The purpose of the draft is to eliminate this injustice and to restore the possibility in the Income Tax Act for spouses to submit a joint income tax return. The full recovery of the joint tax return has already been requested several weeks in turn by the Chairman of the IRL. At the same time, Sester, Minister of Finance of the IRL, does not support the restoration of the joint declaration. In particular, the Minister sent a letter on behalf of the Government of the Republic to the Committee on Monetary Affairs stating that the restoration of the joint declarations would have a negative impact on the state budget and that an increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 per month would create an unreasonable incentive for the other spouse not to join the labour market if one of the spouses had a double right to deduct the tax-free income. In this letter, the Minister also says that allowing spouses to submit a joint tax return is not a common practice in Europe and sets an example for some countries where there is no possibility to submit a joint declaration. In the past, the Minister of Finance has also justified the abolition of the joint declaration by the fact that one person wins more than a married couple today when raising the tax-free minimum. The new tax-free income of EUR 500 per month exceeds the maximum level of joint declarations planned for 2018: it will then be twice EUR 190 per month tax-free. However, the Minister's information and the Minister's explanation were incomplete and distorted. There is nothing the Minister has said about cases where, for example, one husband is at home with children and only the other husband is making a profit. It is families where one spouse works and the other does not work that are hit hardest to lose the joint declaration. And now, briefly, the bill. Paragraph 1 complements Paragraph 44 (15) of the Income Tax Act and the purpose of this amendment is to restore the possibility for spouses to submit a joint declaration. This is not an obligation, but a right that a married family can use if they so wish. Paragraph 2 complements Paragraph 46 (1) with the principle that the parties to the joint declaration are jointly and severally liable for the income tax due. Paragraph 46 (6) complements paragraph 3 by the principle that over-taxed income tax can also be transferred to the spouse's account. The draft does not provide for the introduction of new terms and is not related to European Union law. In short, the effects of the change. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, according to the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, 13.4% of the total 78700 income tax returns submitted were submitted when declaring revenue for 2015. When you look at the number of people, 157400 people, or 23.6% of all respondents, submitted a joint declaration. Once again, the amendment proposed in the draft law will have a positive effect, particularly on couples where only one of the spouses earns income. The impact of the recovery of additional tax-free income in the Joint Declaration is estimated by the initiators to be EUR 11.9 million in 2018. I hereby completely reject the comment given to the ERR by the President of the IRL today that what is proposed in this draft is not technically feasible. In this comment, there was no reason why it was not applicable. This is technically feasible in any case. If the reason is that the expenditure on the state budget of EUR 11.9 million has been underestimated, then I agree with it, it could be much higher. In this letter, which was sent on behalf of the Finance Commission on behalf of the Government from the Ministry of Finance, there is nothing to say about this effect, whether this 11.9 million is correct, underestimated or overrated. I tried to clarify and sent a letter back to the Ministry of Finance a week or more, where I said that you have not commented on the amount of the impact, but please specify whether it is correct. I haven't been able to answer that until today. Yesterday I called and asked where the answer was. I was told that the officials of the Ministry of Finance are currently so busy with tax changes that no one has had time to specify this amount. But I admit, this cost may be higher. In the end, I hope that the draft will find broad support in this Riigikogu Hall and that the coalition will also take up further consideration of the draft we have initiated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U131	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, When the current government came to power at the end of last year, one of the first things was the family and decided to abolish the joint declaration. The board member of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, then the serious tax expert Lasse Lehis, said that he was critical of its abolition. He noted, among other things, that the joint declaration was not merely a tax fiction but a result of family law. That is how he expressed his fear that the little thing was probably forgotten, but in fact the loss of the joint declaration could lead to legal problems. Those are Lasse Lehise's words. But my question is easier than simple. You said that this bill would have a positive effect, especially for couples where one spouse does not work. Would you mind opening that up a little bit? After all, the family includes children.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U133	Thank you for your question. With regard to Lasse Lehise's comment, indeed, she also refers to the legal problems that may arise from the abolition of joint declarations. These are pretty serious arguments. Second, if one of the spouses does not work and the other does work, even such a couple may lose their right to some tax - free minimum in the future. Indeed, if you add tax-free minimums of EUR 180 per month this year, EUR 190 per month next year, it will be less than EUR 500, which is a new tax-free minimum if the income is less than EUR 1200. However, if one spouse works and earns so much that he loses the right to account for tax-free income at all, this loss is still very great compared to the current situation. And once again, the Ministry of Finance has only compared the situation where both spouses work and their tax-free minimums are added. However, the cases where one spouse works and the other does not work were not addressed at all in the reasons given by the Ministry when they came up with the proposal to abolish this joint declaration. And these spouses lose the most chance of taking the joint declaration away. I also specified how many of them could be. According to data from last year, there are about 6,000 families where one spouse does not work and the other one works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U134	Urmas Kruus has a question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Did I hear correctly that Minister Sven Sester, in his letter explaining why the terms of the joint declaration are being restricted, referred to the fact that it is as if it is motivating not to go to the labour market. Do you think it means, like, that if a family decides to let one parent stay at home with their children, raising children is not an important job for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U136	That is what the Minister of Finance has written to us, and I can quote literally. He writes that the first reason why the joint declaration cannot be restored is, of course, that it has a negative impact on the budget. And the second reason is that the surge in tax-free income to EUR 500 per month creates an economically unreasonable incentive for another spouse not to join the labour market if one spouse would receive a double right to deduct tax-free income. 'This would in many cases be essentially a state contribution of up to EUR 1200 per year (EUR 500 tax exemption x 12 and x 0.20% tax rate) for the absence of a spouse from the labour market, regardless of the reasons for his absence. " It's still an unintelligible explanation. That is what we have been dealing with in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but we have not received a reasonable explanation of what this position means. In the same way, it can be argued that this same tax-free minimum of EUR 500 also creates some unreasonable incentives to accept a low-paid job, for example. When we talk about joint declarations, this incentive approach is still exceptionally arbitrary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U137	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U138	Thank you again, Mr President. Dear waitress, I will come back to my previous question and read it in detail. Among the effects of this law is that the amendment will have a positive effect on married couples, where only one of the spouses will make a profit. It also describes what these families are: they are mainly large and young families, where one family member is more involved in raising children. My question is aimed at the fact that a little bit of this opposition to the joint declaration will sound like the notion that these families are where one person works and the other one is like more forces. Which, in your opinion, are more idle sitting or raising children in these homes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U139	Thank you for your question. I don't think there's any idleness. There can be no such question at all if one of the spouses really works, earns a normal salary and supports the whole family, and the other of the spouses devotes himself or herself to the family, to the children, or to the care of elderly family members. There is no question here; this is a perfectly normal situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U140	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Kalvi Tõvi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U141	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed the draft at its meeting on 8 May and, as representative of the initiators, Mr Sõerd presented it to us, as today. Helena Kullamaa and Kairi Ani, chief specialists of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, also participated in the meeting. At the very beginning, I will also say what procedural decisions the Committee on Monetary Affairs took. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Tuesday, 16 May (this was by consensus), but then the initiator asked for the procedure to be postponed by 30 May, i.e. today. It was decided to reject the draft at first reading, with 6 members of the Commission voting in favour, 5 against and 0 abstentions. A little bit of the debate that was in the Commission. It must be said that this issue is really very important, and it concerns many families. The Commission was asked how many of the joint declarations have not declared any revenue at all. People at the Ministry of Finance said about 8500. There was a question about what happens if one husband works in two places and the other one is at home. It has to be said that this family is a financial loss. So, indeed, at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it was admitted that there are issues and problems on these issues. The opinion of the Government of the Republic, which Aivar quoted here, was also discussed, calling it the opinion of the Minister of Finance. Yes, that is the opinion of the Government of the Republic prepared by the Minister of Finance. So much for the debate in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U142	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U143	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! First of all, I would like to point out that you did not introduce what the Commission's decision was. Or I missed it. And on this basis, I ask that, in the meantime, a lot of water has flowed into the sea, and the leaders of the coalition parties have declared publicly that they support the restoration of the joint declaration. Wouldn't it have been wise to discuss the matter now? The Commission may be able to discuss the matter again, but the position of the coalition has changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U144	Thank you, my good colleague. I thought I told you what the decision was made by the Commission. The decision was to reject the draft at first reading in favour of 6, against 5, with 0 abstentions. As far as I can remember, you were against rejecting the bill. But really, the water runs into the sea, as you said, and the presidents of certain parties now and then sit together and discuss things. I guess they're thinking about joint declarations, too. As Aivar pointed out, the chairman of a coalition party has said that it would be reasonable to allow joint declarations. As I mentioned, these issues were also raised in the Commission, and perhaps many members of the Commission made their decision with a bit of a hard heart. Time will tell you what will happen. But I am the Commission's waitress in this remote area today, and I have a nice protocol ahead of me. From there I read it like this, there's so much in it, half that much in it. I guess tonight's big hall will show you what the final decision is gonna be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U145	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Indeed, if it goes on like this, it can be said that there will be a permanent opening of the coalition agreement and that no one will soon understand which agreement is in force and which agreement is not in force. But I have a completely different question. I think it is symptomatic that we are talking about social problems, but in fact, the main issue is fiscal policy. At the moment, I was wondering whether the Committee on Monetary Affairs was not discussing perhaps involving the Social Affairs Committee, which would have analysed precisely this more social side. It seems to me that the Minister of Finance has been very forceful in imposing only fiscal targets. We know that the change can be most acute in families with many children and one parent working and the other in the home dealing with children or sick loved ones. Why was this not discussed with the Committee on Social Affairs and is it planned to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U147	Thank you. It must be acknowledged that horizontal cooperation between Riigikogu committees could indeed be more intense. Indeed, this draft was not discussed with the Committee on Social Affairs. If today's hall decides that the bill will remain open, maybe it will be discussed together. That's the answer to the question. However, we did not have all the possible discussions in the Commission on the opening of the Coalition Agreement. At the beginning of your question, you referred to this opening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U148	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Today at 11 o'clock, the chairman of the IRL has commented that it is not feasible to propose a draft that we have initiated. The first reason, of course, is that it might cost more to the budget. I agree with that. But did anyone in the Commission also raise the question that it is not technically feasible for any reason? We have a pretty precise protocol. A member of the Finance Committee mistakenly sent us a draft protocol. We have a fairly precise description of what was discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U150	Did he just send this protocol by mistake? That's a public document. So, Aivar, you, as a Member of the Commission, are entitled to see this and there is nothing that should be hidden. This was indeed the subject of the meeting of the Committee on Finance, because Mr Urmas asked whether this 11.9 million or 12 million was the right amount. Really, it's probably bigger, even bigger. There was a question about that. But I do not recall anyone in the Commission saying that this would be a technically unfulfilled law. It's not in the record, and I don't remember it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U151	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U152	Thank you! Good waitress! We know you as a good countryman, a good family father. If we go back to why this bill is in front of us, then I also had a question about the fact that the joint declarations were abolished. I ask your personal opinion whether this decision was the right one, given our family policy. Shouldn't the joint declarations be re-established unanimously?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U153	Mrs. Terje! I really am a family father, but I have to say that I have never yet submitted a joint declaration in my family. I don't know why, so we've been more reasonable. But here I am a Commission waitress, and if you ask me how I voted in committee, it is no secret: I opposed this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U154	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U155	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! How seriously did the Commission take an interest in this subject at all and how seriously was the link between joint declarations and family policy discussed and the impact of the draft on Estonia's development? Was this even a subject of discussion and was there a question of some kind of research and forecasts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U156	At this meeting of the Commission, which took place on 8 May, we did not address it. But we have been discussing this issue earlier, at the end of last year, when there was a draft that abolished the joint declarations. Then we went somewhat more in depth on this subject than at the meeting on 8 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U157	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. I recall from the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the main argument why this draft cannot be supported was precisely this financial side. By abolishing the joint declarations, the state will earn EUR 12 million at the expense of their families. That was the main argument. And, of course, that could be even more. But go back to the other arguments on which the Commission did not support this draft. What were the other arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U159	Good Aivar! The Commission decision reflects the vote of the Members of the Commission and I said how the vote went. However, one more thing I would say is that it was probably discussed in the Commission both this time and before. So far, when people made a joint declaration, both had a tax-free minimum of EUR 170. We add 170 + 170 euros. In the case of a new system, if only one person can make a declaration, this amount will be EUR 500. Good Aivar, is 170 + 170 more than 500 or less than 500?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U160	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U161	Thank you! Good waitress! I've never made a joint declaration either, but I'm not speaking for myself here. I think about other people. You said you were against this bill, maybe in favour of rejecting it, and you just made it look like families are winning more now. In fact, however, a family member under this new law that is already in force seems to be erased from society rather than given him more opportunities. Were you still in favour of the joint declarations being abolished?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U162	I told you how I voted. But, of course, there are bottlenecks to this issue. There are social groups that I'm really worried about, for example, the caretakers. They should make a joint declaration because they get less money. There are families where only one family member works, and the other simply cannot work, and I am sure that my heart is concerned about them. But there are also families where one family member receives a very high salary, above the average Estonian salary, and the other family member is able to live by it, using what the other family member has earned. They don't really make my heart hurt. But there are certainly many families for which this regulation needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U163	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, Did you think that maybe the coalition wanted to bite a very large piece at a time, I mean that 500 euros, and show itself to the public in a very pleasant way? Maybe it was too big a piece and it couldn't leave the joint declarations. What would have happened if this sum had been a little less than 500?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U165	Thank you, good questioner! It wasn't discussed in the committee, but, good Raivo, it's not a thing where a big piece would have broken its mouth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U166	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U167	This is not a direct question, it is a clarification. There are all sorts of developments in this sentence: left, right, up and down. That's why this sentence is very important, and I just want to question it. Did I hear correctly that a person who gets a salary above average gets a well-well-well-high salary? Did I hear you right or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U168	You heard that line the right way you wanted to hear. The principle is that those people who receive a high salary, i mean wages in tens of thousands of euros, really cannot use this EUR 500 in the case of a joint declaration. But those who could use 500 will lose. That was my point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U169	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U170	Thank you. Good waitress, I'd like to ask your opinion as a coalition representative on this whole message. What do you think this message to society might be about family policy? Estonia has supported the possibility of joint declarations and it has existed. Now the coalition says that families need not be able to declare their income together. I'm gonna ask you this a little bit, like the last debate goes on. In the previous debate, the day here or there was more of a question of a message. The value of family as an important part of Estonian society has always been important for both the Social Democrats and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. What do you say to society with this change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U171	Good colleague! For the Commission's rapporteur, this format is not the place to talk about political choices and messages. For this purpose, other formats are foreseen in the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U172	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U173	My mother was a housewife, and she was always deeply offended when a father who was a well-paid associate professor in Soviet times was asked what your wife was doing, and she said that my wife was doing nothing, she was sitting at home. Your thinking is the same. It turns out that it is only the one who earns well-well-paid and gives a great deal to society because he is supported by a person who earns little. But it's like serving together! According to the current option, it turns out that anyone who earns as technically less is irrelevant from the point of view of society. Is it really that in society values are determined solely by income?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U174	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U175	There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U176	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Riigikogu! This is like the last point of the attempt to eradicate the shame of the government coalition. It is still scandalous to go into joint declarations. I mean, there's this idea dusting up somewhere, I knew as a minister of finance, but like all the other tax changes that have been put on this table, it was dusted. These technical solutions should never have been brought to the government or presented to the Riigikogu. I very much hope that this hall will find a consensus here. The issue is one rare tax credit, which is quite well targeted at the weaker, and which is very important - it emphasises family values. These tax incentives, which are used here, are not very well targeted at family values, they earn family values. One of the main phrases of this coalition, which is especially characteristic of Finance Minister Sven Sester, is that we are fulfilling our promises. We close our eyes, and while no one has asked for or accepted these promises, it is still being cut off that they are our promises. Or that we have a coalition agreement, that's another option. Unfortunately, this 500-year-old tax hacker does not justify losing the joint declarations. After all, the tax-free minimum of 500 euros is fraud. We are talking about 500 euros in the case of people who belong to the revenue gap from the third to the fourth to the sixth. These are the people who can use this EUR 500. It is impertinent to say that a tax-free minimum of 500 is the solution, because the poorest get nothing from it and the money is taken away from the top quarter. In this sense, it is very cynical to justify everything with a tax-free minimum of EUR 500. Clearly, the withdrawal of the possibility of joint declarations serves the interests of the budget. Only intermediates can use the 500-euro tax-free minimum. In the same way, the tax exemption on sport is boasted here. See, we can pay for marathon tickets and gym tickets now! This advantage certainly does not go where the joint declarations have been addressed. Unemployed parents are not getting anything out of this sports benefit. This certainly does not increase sports opportunities to a great extent, although everyone claps on it. Working people, those who receive a bonus in this way in addition to their pay, have already been able to exercise. The problem still lies with people who are not in employment, including unemployed spouses. However, the joint declaration has been one of the most vulnerable measures. Not always, of course, there are also just dependent spouses. But very often a joint declaration has been required for other reasons. Even linking the income tax-free minimum to the number of children is less targeted, as this measure does not reach the poorest people in any way, as well as large families, who often do not have high incomes. I hope that it will come to mind not only by discussing this issue of joint declarations, but by discussing tax incentives in general. I hope that people will think about who will receive these benefits. This tax credit is targeted at non-working, i.e. less well-managed, family members. It's not absolute, but it's more likely the target group than the others that we talked about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U177	Mr Ammas, speaking on behalf of the Free Party Group, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U178	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The withdrawal of the possibility of a joint declaration from married couples by the current coalition was indeed an unthinkable and disgusting decision. As has been said, this resulted in financial losses for many couples, but more importantly, this decision directly affected the status of marriage. And symbols can sometimes be more important than money. The opportunity to make joint declarations has so far been a certain testimony that marriage is favorable in our society and deserves special treatment. In fact, this opportunity has been one of the few privileges of married couples just in front of couples living together. But these arguments in support of today's draft have already sounded in the report of the initiator's representative and his answers to the questions. The Free Party Group supports the acquisition of the draft to be processed into a law. And I would point out that not only the leader of one coalition party, but the leaders of three coalition parties have confirmed before the television cameras that the joint declarations will come back. That is why it would be extremely cynical if the members of the coalition voted out of the procedure today and then, in a few days or a few weeks' time, they would come before us with a similar bill, which is presented by the coalition. Unfortunately, we have had this deplorable practice in the past. I hope the new coalition doesn't do that. The Free Party Group hopes that this draft will be dealt with quickly and will become a law before the end of our spring session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U179	I'm closing the negotiations. The Committee on Finance has proposed to reject draft 421 at first reading. It requires a vote in plenary. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs 421 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 43 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal of the Monetary Commission, 30 against, no abstentions. Draft 421 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. Honourable Riigikogu! The Free Party Group has proposed to extend the session of the Riigikogu until today's agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. There is also a need to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Free Party Group to extend the session of the Riigikogu until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 63 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 2 against, 1 abstention. The meeting has been extended until 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U180	The next item is Bill 413 of the Law on the Election of the Local Government Council and on the Amendment of other Acts, which bans bait ducks, initiated by the Free Party Group. Please, by the initiator of the bill, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U181	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Thank you for the opportunity to extend working hours. This is indeed useful for the procedure of the draft. The purpose of the draft Act amending the Local Government Council Election Act and other laws is to solve one of the problems that has persisted in Estonia for a long time and which is primarily related to the reconciliation or non-unification of the mandates of the Riigikogu and the local government, but also, in fact, of the European Parliament. The idea of our draft is that it is not right to reconcile the various mandates. At the same time, we do not want and cannot deprive people of the right to stand as candidates in different elections. It is simply our view that there should be such a natural clause that the new acquired mandate cancels the previous mandate. Having been elected to the local government council, for example, the mandate of the Riigikogu or the mandate of the European Parliament, as Mrs Lauristin intends to do, must be waived. In our opinion, this is a natural way for politicians to take a little more risks, perhaps, but also to give their will to voters very clearly and not to leave the possibility of being a decoy duck. In order to understand what the wider background of this choice is, we may need to analyse a little bit about the political system in Estonia and what direction it is going in when we make either one decision or another decision on the possibility of combining mandates. In our view, this political system plays a central role in the political parties. This may be justified in some ways, but we must take into account that political parties have been funded to an infamous extent by society's sense of justice. We also have an administrative reform that is currently taking place quite clearly trying to strengthen political parties' positions and weaken local electoral alliances. In the course of this reform, we can roughly count on a thousand or a little less per local council across Estonia. This means that elected representatives of the people across the country will be less, the concentration of power will deepen, and this will be done through the political parties that are working here on Toompea. And the unification of mandates, i.e. when members of the Riigikogu go to local government councils, increases the concentration and centralisation of power brutally. We are of the opinion that the work of a member of the Riigikogu must be taken with all seriousness. It is not intended to bring down political party policy guidelines from top to bottom in Toompea. In short, the history of the problem, which is also quite long reflected in the explanatory memorandum. Until autumn 2005, we had so that the members of the Riigikogu could stand as a candidate in local government elections and, if elected, also work in councils. From there ten years on, Estonia's mandates could not be reconciled until the current composition of the Riigikogu restored the situation that was before 2005. There have been many legal disputes in the background, and the Riigikogu has also been very volatile in the background. In March 2002, the rule was established that a member of the Riigikogu may no longer be a member of the local council from the next local elections. Three years later, the Riigikogu annulled this rule. However, President Rüütel did not announce it, considering that the simultaneous exercise of the mandate of the Riigikogu and the local council is not in accordance with the Constitution. In 2005, three days before the local elections, the Supreme Court made a decision according to which the non-unification of mandates remained in force and a schizophrenic situation arose, where the members of the Riigikogu, although they were nominated for local elections, could not exercise the mandate. Thus the phenomenon of the so-called decoy ducks that existed in Estonia for ten years arose. Let me give you some drastic examples. The Tallinn City Council, which was active in 2009-2013, ended up in a situation where 53 of the 79 city councillors were alternate members. The people who received the lion's vote in the elections, and the people who carried out the mandate, to a large extent, did not overlap. A total of 93 members of the Riigikogu were nominated for local elections in 2013, 60 of whom were elected. As of early 2014, only one politician had adopted the mandate and one had started working as an auxiliary mayor. There are basically two ways to solve this problem. This may be the way in which the mandates will be reconciled, the weakness of which I have just highlighted the deeper concentration of power that this entails. And the other way is what we offer in our bill. By preventing questions arising, let me also say a few words about the Supreme Court ruling that came a few weeks ago. As we know, the Riigikogu passed the so-called two chairs Act a little more than a year ago, and then several local government councils turned to the Supreme Court to clarify this issue. They didn't like the decision. The Supreme Court, as we know, has just taken the view that there is no contradiction between the Constitution and the Constitution, does not require that persons who decide on matters of local life must not be affected by the decision-making of matters of state life. I believe that this position must, in principle, be respected. Our draft is based on the idea that the choice we can make on this draft is clearly political. I would not label it as a constitutional choice, although the dispute over it, as I pointed out, has been going on for quite a long time in Estonian society. However, I will make an important point, which is worth reminding you over and over again. It is that everything that is constitutional may not be wise or reasonable under specific circumstances. In conclusion, I think that with this draft we are defending a number of fundamental values of democracy. First of all, we defend the interests of local governments, because the participation of members of the Riigikogu, which has been burdened with party duties, has been demonstrated by the practice of this time, either way, beginning to undermine local decision-making, by directing the currents that we have here in Toompea and also in the House of Stenbock to local governments as well. That won't be necessary. This system also limits the interests of smaller communities. In situations where TV faces known throughout Estonia stand as candidates for local elections, the opportunities for representatives of these communities to become elected are much smaller. And it also limits the broadest possible participation in politics, because it is precisely in the event of a lack of compatibility of mandates that more new people can be brought into politics. In the debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a joke was also raised. In fact, there is a shortage of capable people in Estonian politics. In my opinion, this is not a shortage of capable people, if there is one, rather than a solution in such a way that we go from here to local councils. Rather, it is the centralisation and concentration of power, where party influences play a major role, often keep reasonable and capable people out of politics or push them out of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U182	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U183	Thank you, good chairman and waitress. I had contact with the Nordic MPs last weekend, and I spoke with a representative from Norway who complained a little that he had worked on two fronts, in the local council and in Parliament at the expense of his family. In addition to health and relationships with loved ones, both have suffered work. Don't you think that if our MEPs try to work at local councils at the same time, they would rather depreciate local politicians. It's like they don't believe in them. And how do you think this could affect political growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U184	As regards growth, I have already mentioned that I believe that this reduces the chances for new people to enter politics. However, health is such a time - changing phenomenon in people's lives. I think that our 24-hour night sessions may pose a risk to the health of all of us, perhaps more than participating in the work of the local council. But I will stick to the fact that one of the main problems is that we are narrowing the basis of this relatively scattered power, the layer of elected ambassadors in the local governments of Estonia, to the reform of the local government. And if, on the other hand, we narrow it down to concentration of power arising from the fact that members of the Riigikogu participate in local government councils, then we make it too narrow. My deep conviction is also that problems at local level may not be ideological problems for political parties. They're mostly not. Locally, local electoral alliances, such communities as are separated from central party politics, are entirely natural. The practice has shown this. It was not for nothing that this decision was made more than a decade ago that members of the Riigikogu could not participate in local councils. It's just that it turned out very badly to be a decoy party. It is reasonable to leave these decisions to local people. Thus, councils are less politicised.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U185	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Do you think that Estonia's democracy is weaker than Nordic democracy, where this system applies? But the more important question for me is that if all members of the Riigikogu were elected in the local government, how many percent of these places would the members of the Riigikogu occupy? And do you think there is a difference between party people who run for office on a party list and party people in an election union made up of only party people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U187	I can answer that question for a long time, of course. In my opinion, people are even placed in these political party lists of the Ministry of Justice that who is in them and who is not a small exaggeration. The parties should keep that account for themselves. You shouldn't follow people that you can't run for office in the citizens' electoral union now. That freedom should definitely be. As far as comparison with the Nordic countries is concerned, our party culture is certainly not at this level. It has not reached this level of civil society. I think that there are such things as the figures for the payment of membership fees, but I do not have specific data on it, but I expect it to be much better. Our political parties have created such a, say, more scientificly expressing cliential relationship with their members: a party member rather wants something from the party rather than participating in it because of his convictions. There are posts and all kinds of other benefits. As far as 101 members of the Riigikogu are concerned, I do not know what percentage it would be if they were all nominated and elected. Of course, not everyone's gonna be running. But you can figure out how many council members we have. No one really knows at the moment, obviously, the administrative reform is still unfinished. But if I remember correctly, our approximate estimate was that before the municipal reform there were about 3,000 members of local councils, and after the reform there were nearly 1,000 fewer. So this calculation we can essentially do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U188	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U189	Good waitress! What does the local government do? Right: planning, social welfare, income distribution, kindergarten, road maintenance, etc. I live in the municipality, too. Tell me why I have to be the only person who has no right to participate actively in this work! I mean, I'm kind of cursed because I'm in the Riigikogu. And you don't think I can say where asphalt comes from or where asphalt doesn't come from, and I can't vote for a pipe or anything. In my opinion, this is quite discriminatory. I have this feeling, boys, that you're missing the problem. The problem is, in fact, that local governments have been politicised by the Tallinn parties. What's amazing is that no local government person has ever gone to court to say that I can't get that or the other place because I'm in the wrong party. I'm sorry to say this, but this is because the courage of the local people is poor. Tell me, maybe we should fight not to politicise the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U190	Thank you, Mr Gräzin. I understand you're running for Muhu Council, so do everything you can to prevent this government from being politicised. In general, I think that the position of the question is correct. But I believe that the measure that we are offering is also at the service of solving this problem. And, believe me, in some ways, you have more opportunities to participate as a member of the Riigikogu in solving local problems than members of the councils. It's just that these levels don't have to be messed up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U191	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U192	Thank you. Good waitress! You said that categorizing party and non-party is somehow artificial. But how do you divide me into a local and non-local person, for example? There was also a sentence that the locals should teach the things they needed. Where would you put me?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U193	I will place you here, Mr. Ligi, where you are now sitting, in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. And after you have decided to apply to the local council and you are successful in this project, our bill will certainly allow you to participate in this work. True, with the condition that the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu should then be waived.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U194	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U195	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! The Commission also spoke about the other part of this draft law. I myself raised this issue, while fully understanding what a decoy duck means. We're dealing with legislation here. The second half of this draft, or the law amending the Local Government Council Election Act and other laws banning decoy ducks, is not written in a proper legal language. This bill doesn't define what a decoy duck is. Maybe you're gonna tell me here on the committee you answered my question, why is this bill still being submitted?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U196	Thank you, Mr. Hallemaa. I was waiting for that question. How do I define a decoy duck? This is the person who is running for office, but he is not going to accept the mandate when he is elected, and who is replaced by people who have perhaps received fewer votes in size and who, as a statistician, do not live up to the role of a representative of the people. There's a big obstacle to the decoy duck. But why is it here in the bill? I am quite honest with you that I have the honour of defending this draft before the Riigikogu for quite a number of times. One time there was a previous composition, and then I wasn't so bravuring to write the decoy duck's word in the title of the bill. But it was written there in full knowledge when we put forward our draft competitively, perhaps a day or two before the government coalition came up with the draft of reconciling mandates at the beginning of 2016. I guess that's the way to get attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U197	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U198	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I was very, very, very hurt by Igor Gräzin's approach, according to which only being an active member of the council can be active. Now that's an absurd theater! We have examples of how members of the community are trying to influence local life: finding solutions to problems related to North Tallinn Soo and Telliskivi Street, developing beta promenade and cultural km. And now it is claimed that since these people are not members of the council, they are not active people and cannot in any way influence local life! It's an absurd theater! Does your definition of active person match Igor Gräzin's definition? Does a person necessarily have to be a council member in order to be actively involved in the life of the community?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U199	Thank you. I haven't tried to define an active person here, they're very diverse. But at local level, it is certainly possible to engage through various forms of civil society. However, as I said in answering one question, if the will to be part of a council is unfailing, then we will not deprive anyone of the right to stand as a candidate. It is simply a matter of choosing which of the two, either one or the other, is the mandate of the Riigikogu or the local mandate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U200	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U201	That's what's starting with the little thing: you put a decoy duck in the first place, and then there's an absurd theater. That's why I'm forced to go legal. The point is that all citizens of the Republic of Estonia have the right to be elected and to choose. And there are people who feel that their activity is going to be much better chosen. I'm one of them, by the way, and that's one of the reasons I'm even here. I feel like this is going to work out pretty well, and I can't find anything absurd about it. It is rather a matter of principle. Is it not the question that the state does not control, through an institution, this possibility of truly Soviet influence, in which case Tallinn commands places to be in any way? And if you're not on the ground in a certain way, you're not gonna get one job or another. I think it's a Soviet relic. We're supposed to get rid of it, aren't we?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U202	Tallinn probably refers to the offices of political parties located in Tallinn. I hope that you will raise this issue on the board of the Reform Party, perhaps also on the board of the Centre Party. . [[Someone's commenting from the hall that they can't.]] You can't? Well, maybe someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U203	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! I didn't really get an answer to my question, and I'm gonna ask you again. My question was motivated by the fact that, as both Elva and the Mayor of Tartu, I had quite a lot of opportunities to meet the mayors of the Nordic countries, and one thing I noticed there, especially in Finland, was how actively the local community worked with the person they had elected to the parliament and who also worked either at the council or at the local committee. They talked about it in a positive key. It's not that people who go high and far, let's say, up the hill, don't know what's going on at the foot of the mountain anymore. The other half of the question is, why are you trying to say that the people who are in the electoral union, whether or not they belong to the party at the same time, are, as if, better than those who belong to the party and participate in the municipal elections on this list? After all, we have both party and non-party members on the electoral alliance lists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U205	Like your previous question, there were quite a few motives. I'm trying to comment on them now, as best as it comes out. I do not think I have said anywhere that some candidates are a priori better or worse than others. I have certainly defended the right of life and opportunities of the electoral alliances in the local elections, because they have been constantly wanted to be harmed here. In his time, they were protected by Chancellor of Justice Allar Jõks; we are now protecting them from some manipulations of administrative reform. If a member of a party decides to stand as a candidate in an electoral union, he is not necessarily better than the member of the party who is running for office on the list of parties, but maybe he has a little bit more of the courage of the citizen to say his word. After all, political parties limit this possibility, this free choice a little. There was a guy here who was a tough candidate for the election union. He's become the chairman of the party. He's not anymore. That's what we have. But as far as Nordic culture is concerned, I have here a slightly outdated table which I can then share with you and which shows which European countries are allowed to combine mandates and in which countries this is excluded. It is true that Nordic culture in general promises to reconcile the mandate of local government and the parliamentary mandate; Latvia and Lithuania, which are south of us, do not allow it, as do several Central European countries. So maybe this intensity of our dispute is also due to the fact that we live on the border between the two cultures and the examples we look at are very heterogeneous. But I will stick to what I said in response to the previous question: I believe that the political parties operating in the Nordic countries have more and clearer regard for the rules of civil society than the Estonian political parties. Estonian political parties are somewhat like state parties, which are already due to their excessive funding. Thus they contain addictive chains, where the local, grassroots level is too much in the middle or, as Igor said earlier, led from Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U206	Helmut Hallemaa, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U207	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Although the Hatter felt insulted by the definition of a local community activist, I feel insulted by the name of a decoy duck. Actually, I'd say in advance that I'd rather have thought that the two chairs shouldn't be reconciled. But now I'm starting to think more and more that if I run, I'm sure I'll go to the council, and I think I can work on both sides, just like Helmen Hunter, who's the next questioner. We are both active in the Commission, we will get the job done. And it's a good thing if local politics gets here. We should introduce more and more of this. How would you answer me, whether I'm a decoy duck or not, and if I am, what kind of decoy duck am I?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U208	Mr. Hallemaa! I think you have every right to decide whether or not to be a decoy duck and then make your choices accordingly. The best way to do this is to decide, in the spirit of our draft, that is to say, when elected to the local council, to waive this mandate here or, on the contrary, as you probably had to do in this case. As regards the experience gained in the local government, a member of the Riigikogu will certainly benefit. But by looking at these empty bench lines that are still visible in this Chamber, I fear that if mandates are reconciled, they will become even more empty. After all, the name of the decoy duck came into use in Estonia at a time when the members of the Riigikogu were running and there was not enough manhood for political parties to say that we will not stand as candidates if we do not accept the mandate. This hypocrisy was completely exploited. However, as a justification for using this word here, I do not actually see the decoy party disappearing under the current system, because the possibility of abandoning the mandate unscrupulously, while maintaining the old mandate in the Riigikogu, remains for everyone. We want to make our lives too comfortable here. We want us to always have the privilege of choosing which mandate we consider to be more important at the moment, or we think that these mandates should be able to be reconciled. Maybe it's a pretty futile privilege. There is also a need to take risks in politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U209	Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I am not going to give examples from the Nordic countries, because we know all of them. You must have a long list. For example, in Finland, ministers can also be members of councils and consider it very important because they are more involved in decision-making with the opinion of the people. You noted that in the Nordic countries political parties represent more like citizens' interests, but in Estonia there is something like state parties. Is it not precisely that it is binding that if a person turns out to be elected and works on a local government council, he is more involved in this place and also represents more of the opinion of the residents in the Riigikogu. If he goes to a council meeting every month, he'll still be buttoned and asked about one and the other. I have a second question about your bill. People on the ground aren't stupid. People, communities know by choosing what rights and opportunities anyone has. What are these arguments for your bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U211	I can do so in the past, and there are examples that the candidate does not say his/her actual plan of action, or that he/she will say it somewhere so quietly that it will definitely not reach the voters. As far as buttoning is concerned, you have not been elected to the Riigikogu by your own council. You have been chosen by a much larger number of people who can communicate with you, the council is not the only place to transmit signals from. I'm rather concerned about the influence that the parties' central offices direct to the councils. Although yes, the opposite may also be possible and I do not want to generalise here that the picture is completely black and white. However, when we talk about how to bring political parties closer to civil society, I think we could eliminate this excessive funding from the state budget. We have made this proposal here repeatedly, because in such a case, we would no longer have reason to talk about the political parties, but of the citizens' parties, who organise themselves, to find their own resources. Yes, indeed, there is a danger that some kind of business interest will come into play in the case of donations. Therefore, moderate state support for political parties can be reasonable. But our big problem is that this support is excessive and, in the meantime, it was certainly aimed at preserving the party landscape as a whole and preventing any new initiatives at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U212	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U213	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! You've been in the Riigikogu for a long time. In time, the vote was on the abolition of electoral alliances when you were still in another party. So how did you vote?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U214	I may not remember all the votes I have had in this Riigikogu during my life. But I do remember this with certainty that the composition of the Riigikogu was operating in 2003-2007 when this problem came up sharply. And then I was quite sure to be with such distinguished people as Jüri Adams and Liia Hänn, who thought it was an extremely repressive and bad idea. When this idea began to germinate, it was somewhat earlier, I think, between 1999 and 2003, it took some time to sort out all the consequences. I admit that I tend to think that, in fact, in this bad approach, all the political parties in the Riigikogu were somehow involved. Everyone was involved in this idea starting to germinate in its time. But I certainly have repeatedly defended the rights of local electoral alliances in various votes. At the same time, I have probably voted in favour of abolishing electoral alliances in Riigikogu elections in my time. In retrospect, I find that to be a mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U215	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U216	Good manager! Good waitress! Hunters know that a decoy duck is put on water somewhere, and the only idea is that real ducks land near it and they can shoot around the decoy duck. Now, I'm asking about this bill in the sense of who's the plan to shoot and who's the shooter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U217	In fact, the metaphor can be very well generalised. We're not talking about shooting, but we're talking about the Tallinn Council, which I've already pointed out once. People who have received thousands of votes from previous districts have not taken their place in the council. Instead, people who, at best, have received hundreds of votes will, at worst, have only a fewteen votes. This is also the result of the Tallinn Council. I guess the people on the council are the real ducks that were brought in with decoy, according to your comparison. And these real ducks are certainly victims in the sense that if they have not always done enough of the work involved in the elections themselves and have no public support, they will also not be able to carry out their mandate effectively. I think that this phenomenon of decoy ducks combined with the closed management style of Tallinn's city power, which comes from the office of the Central Party of its own time, is a very big reason for which the Tallinn City Council as a whole has unfortunately marginalised. These real ducks are the victims of this marginalisation, who are currently sitting on the council and do not realize that they really should run the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U218	Please, Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U219	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, It is very sad that in the case of any draft that could affect the whole of Estonia, we often focus only on Tallinn. Believe that although there is indeed a very large part of the Estonian population living in Tallinn, there is life elsewhere, such as Viljandi, Paide and Tartu. How could it affect people on the ground if a member of the Riigikogu who is running for office clearly states that he is applying for community support and renounces his mandate to participate in the council and continues as a member of the Riigikogu? How can it affect life on the ground if people know it and still give their voices? A large number of people on the ground who are on the same electoral list, whether it is an election union or a political party, are still running and going to work there? How can this have a negative impact on local life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U220	Mrs. Hunter! I think that any hypocrisy has a negative impact on society. If a person is running with the idea of abandoning a mandate, whether it is at any level, any representative body, I think it is not right. And I am certainly not only talking about Tallinn on this bill. The questions have been addressed here by Viljandi and also by smaller municipalities. Yes, I gave Mr. Ernits an example, but I remembered it just because I recently saw the Tallinn website looking at Edgar Savisaar as still mayor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U221	Please, Olga Ivanova!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I will continue on the subject of Helmen Hunter. Why is the city of Tallinn such a big problem for you? Let's take a broader look! It is understandable that this may not be suitable for you, as your party has just taken the decision that members of the Riigikogu do not stand as candidates for local elections. In fact, I think it was a big mistake because you have very nice candidates who could get a good vote in Tallinn. But the law allows us to run now and also belong to the council, and I think it is a good opportunity to meet more of our voters, talk more about their concerns and maybe get smarter. Can't you find it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U223	Mrs. Ivanova! In my opinion, even now, if I am not deceived by my memory, you will have the opportunity to belong either to the Lasnamäe administration or to one of those collections at a lower level. I do not think that the Tallinn Council could bring some positive winds to this Riigikogu, rather the opposite. As far as marginalisation is concerned, God would grant that marginalisation not to be transferred to this hall. Well, he's a matter of choice, isn't he? I understand the choices of the Centre Party are changing. In time, at least part of your group supported our draft with the same content. Now you must have decided the other way around. In general, in my opinion, in order to be a good member of the Riigikogu, it is not necessary to go to the Tallinn Council to study. There is certainly a need to communicate with voters and try to solve their problems, but not in the way you propose.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U224	Helmen Hunter, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U225	Yeah. Since my name was mentioned, I would like a word for reply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U226	Look, we're not in the middle of a negotiation. So let's save this line for later. Any more questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. Peeter Ernits, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will make a presentation by the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U227	Ladies and gentlemen, Yes, you heard right, I represent the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, not the Committee on the Environment, even though it is duck law. On 16 May, the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs lasted two hours and five minutes, but there were five questions on the agenda, so you can calculate how long we discussed this draft. Andres Herkel said that the Act amending the Local Government Council Election Act and other laws would cancel the mandate or new mandate of a member of the Riigikogu if the person was elected to the council. Well, we heard enough before these explanations. Igor Gräzin, a colleague who was an alternate at the meeting of the committee, noted that a member of the Riigikogu is also interested in matters falling within the administrative sphere of the local government and being a member of the local government council gives him the opportunity to resolve these issues as a citizen. The draft creates a situation This is what Mr Gräzin was talking about here in the big hall. Andres Herkel explained to Gräzin that a member of the Riigikogu did not lose his civil rights but his mandate. It's just that there can't be two mandates. Colleagues Arto Aas said that the Supreme Court has just made a decision according to which the membership of a member of the Riigikogu is constitutional and the status of a member of a local government council does not mean a state office. I would like to remind you that Kose Vallavolikogu, West Saare Vallavolikogu, Kõpu Vallavolikogu and Vormsi Vallavolikogu had requested that such regulation be declared unconstitutional. We were talking about three sections of the Constitution: § 4 on separation of powers, § 63 on the status of a member of the Riigikogu and § 154 on the right to self-determination of local government. This was a controversial question, about which the Supreme Court, led by the Supreme Court's five-member President, decided that everything was in the best order and that there was no conflict with the Constitution. Andres Herkel said that even if regulation was declared constitutional, this does not mean that regulation is reasonable and contributes to the development of democracy in Estonia. This draft is a political choice, emphasised Herkel. The initiator of the draft act is convinced that the solution they propose is a better one. So constitutionality is not a key issue for the draft rapporteur. Ken-Marti Vaher, chairman of the committee, said that regulation was often highlighted by the lack of constitutionality or constitutionality because it was believed that the political weight of the argument would then be greater. Arto Aas continued that, of course, this is a political choice, but political choices must also be compatible with the Constitution. So the story reached the resolution of the Supreme Court on 16 June again. The Supreme Court has said that matters of state life and matters of local life are questions of different levels and it is unreasonable to forcefully restrict the citizen's free right to apply and be elected to the local government council and Riigikogu. Such a restriction would be contrary to the Constitution in the light of the Supreme Court's decision, according to Arto Aasa, as this would be an obstacle to the fundamental rights of the person. My colleague Mart Nutt noted that he has always found that the reconciliation of the mandates of a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the local government council is not contrary to the Constitution. And Nutt also found that the Supreme Court's decision has an important role to play because it finally answers the question of whether local government agencies are state agencies or not. On the practical side, Mr Nutt noted that it is difficult, sometimes very difficult, to reconcile the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu with that of a member of the local government council. Thus, he felt that this would not be contrary to the Constitution if the law laid down a procedure under which a single mandate had to be waived. The law has a room for regulation on its own, and it is indeed a matter of political choice. So once again, we came to a political choice. Andres Herkel pointed out that the idea of his draft was mainly to have more players in politics. At the same time, the prohibition of being a member of the Riigikogu and of being a member of the local government council was introduced with the aim of expanding the circle of political participants. According to Herkel, the ban on belonging to two collections lasted for a very long time in Estonia, and the result was that political parties made people so-called double candidates, even though they could not carry out both mandates. In fact, in Herkel's opinion, politicians are taking greater risks if they consider the possibility of losing an existing mandate when they are elected. And those politicians who dare take risks are stronger. The chairman of the committee, Ken-Marti Vaher, found that Estonia's problem is not that politicians cannot exercise themselves. The bigger concern is that there are few capable politicians in Estonia. Helmut Hallemaa has stated this again and again in this Chamber, that he has rather felt that these mandates should not be reconciled, because new politicians are really needed. At the same time, it is not possible to provide by law which mandate a person must choose. Andres Herkel also explained that the word 'beautiful ducks' received the title of the bill to draw added attention. But I still don't understand it, because decoy ducks are really meant to shoot real ducks. Jüri Adams, a colleague of the Riigikogu, noted that he knew that such a problem did not arise in the Republic of Estonia before the Second World War, the fact that a member of the Riigikogu may have been a member of the local government council was understandable. Estonia is at the border of two different cultures: on the one hand, Finland, where, for historical reasons, MEPs are predominantly members of the local government, and, on the other hand, Latvia and Lithuania, where it has been decided that the mandates in question must not be combined. What has been decided on depends both on historical reasons and on the size of the country, Adams noted. The reconciliation of mandates should be physically possible and today the matching of mandates in a country the size of Estonia is not a technical problem. Adamski spoke of the decoy duck, noting that the name was politically topical during the three previous Riigikogu formations, when members of the Riigikogu were allowed to apply for the local government council, but were not allowed to be a member there. Then the practice developed that a member of the Riigikogu applied for somewhere in the council elections to collect many votes for his party. The objective of taking the place of a council member was secondary. This concept will probably remain topical even after the elections of local governments in the autumn, foretold Adams. As a member of the Commission, I asked how the Free Party itself intends to go to the municipal elections in autumn. Are the members of the Free Party party planning to stand as a candidate? Andres Herkel noted that this issue is not relevant at the moment and that everyone can decide to apply in accordance with the law in force. So I didn't understand whether my colleagues from the Free Party were running or not. Arto Aas asked whether the initiators of the draft had also considered such a practical question that if a member of the Riigikogu should be an alternate to the local government council during a certain period, he would have to waive the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu. That's a practical question. Andres Herkel replied that such a situation should still be resolved unambiguously, and the same rule should apply to the alternate, that the mandate of a member of the Riigikogu should be waived. Illimar from the Ministry of Justice of Pärnamägi explained that the Government of the Republic discussed draft 413 at its meeting on 20 April and decided not to support the draft. The reason is in the government's letter. And then decisions were made. It was decided to put the draft on the agenda for 30 May (consensus) and to propose that the draft be rejected. There were 8 Commission members in favour, 1 against, with 0 abstentions. To be exact, only Jüri Adams was opposed, the rest were in favour. And that's all there was. The last decision was that I will report from the Commission's debate on this board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U228	The round of questions will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U229	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for quoting me over and over again. My question is this: is the protocol that you read out in black white saying that the members of the Free Party are not running? I think it did. At the same time, of course, it is not a matter of which political parties make decisions on a specific draft, albeit relevant.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U230	I asked for it too, but I didn't get the right answer. I didn't understand why you didn't answer that. But the protocol states as I read it: Andres Herkel replied that this issue is not relevant at the moment and that everyone can decide to apply themselves in accordance with the laws in force. That's the answer from you, anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U231	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Ammas on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U232	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Sitting in two chairs and decoy ducks are two such subjects, which, outside this hall, excite the Estonian people quite a bit, and in my opinion, the majority of our constituents are clearly opposed to both phenomena. They think differently in this hall. Unfortunately, in this Chamber, I believe that party egoism and political thinking prevail. The Free Party doesn't think it's right to sit in two chairs. And although the Supreme Court has indeed granted members of the Riigikogu the right to participate in the work of both the Riigikogu and local councils, neither I nor many of my colleagues consider it justified in any way. Court permission to be a duck in elections doesn't justify fooling voters. The decision of the Supreme Court on the constitutionality of membership of the local council of a member of the Riigikogu is a legal assessment which must be respected as such. But it does not in itself make such behaviour more honest or respectful towards voters. In my opinion, the Supreme Court has not taken into account the problem of political culture in Estonia. Today's debate has repeatedly highlighted the example of the Nordic countries, especially Finland. I really think that Nordic culture can set an example for us in many ways. But right now, we're actually a long way from that. It has been pointed out that in Finland, a Member or Minister may be a member of a local council. But we should compare the Finnish and Estonian constitutions when assessing this practice, we should compare the entire political culture of Finland and Estonia. This Finnish practice cannot be taken over immediately. Let us recognise that the political culture of the northern neighbours is more restrained and responsible at all times, there is always a rational consensus policy. In this hall, half an hour ago, a vote demonstrated that the coalition road roll was brutally out of its mind. Allowing you to sit on two chairs is bad in the sense that it tempts you to become a decoy duck. Moral public fraud and the damage caused by such conduct are great in society. Of course, it is particularly rude for ministers to apply, because everyone understands that ministers do not give up their place and do not take up work at local councils. I repeat again and again: let us trust good and wise people in local governments! The purpose of selecting local governments is to select local decision-makers. A few minutes ago, thanks to my colleague Peeter Ernits, Ken-Marti Vaher, from this remote point of view, the amazing saying that there is a problem in Estonian politics, and this problem is that we have few capable politicians. Come on, this is scandalous! Indeed, I have made the impression before that somehow sitting here on Toompea is accompanied by a syndrome that threatens all of us, including me. I have perceived this both 25 years ago as a member of the Supreme Council and now as a member of the Riigikogu. May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U233	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U234	It's some sort of government, some sort of infallibility syndrome, which I think is just too cocky. This syndrome is expressed in the opinion that the public body is competent in its own wisdom to teach all local figures and that the participation of the state body in the local government gives this council immense authority. I've been at the Haapsalu Council for 20 years. I remember those times when Ülo Uluots and Andres Lipstok visited the council meetings here from Toompea, and those times when members of the Riigikogu were not allowed to belong to the councils. The locals can do very well without the members of the Riigikogu. Very well! So this desire to sit in two chairs is more of a power monopoly, I'd say, an excessive desire for power. That doesn't honor politicians. This does not honor us here; it does not increase confidence in politics in Estonia in general and in general. The election of members of the Riigikogu and ministers in local elections does not, in my opinion, mean supporting their party partners, but rather lacking trust in their local thinkers. There are enough capable people in local electoral alliances as well as in the local lists of political parties. Here it was said today that a member of the Riigikogu, sitting in two chairs, is better informed about the reality and the concerns of local government. I don't think that's true. We do not live here under any dome that prevents us from sensing what is actually happening in Estonia, and does not allow the pulse to be maintained in Estonia's life. I call on you to support the continuation of the Free Party draft procedure. It would be dignified and responsible. But let this decision, which has long been announced in public: regardless of what the Riigikogu decides on today's draft, the members of the Free Party Group will not stand as candidates for local elections. Mr Ivanova said very nicely here a little while ago that there would be good candidates in the Free Party who would probably get a very good result in local elections. But the Free Party has not just come into Estonian politics to participate in political technology, but to stand up for principles that are important to us. These principles are more important to us than careers in local councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U235	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 413 at first reading. Let's invite our colleagues to the Chamber and vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 413 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 8 against and no abstentions. The bill has been rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U236	Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to the fourth item on today's agenda, which we will probably continue to discuss tomorrow. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Capacity Allowance Act initiated by the Social Affairs Committee and the related amendment of other laws 468. I would like to present the Chair's Chair of the Social Affairs Committee to Helmen Küti. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U237	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overview of how the draft law amending the Employment Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee at its meeting on 15 May and handed over to the large hall on 16 May, has reached its first reading. Mr Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister for Health and Labour, Mr Siiri Otsmann, Head of the Employment Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Mr Jõgiste, Adviser, attended the meeting on 15 May. The Minister of Health and Labour gave a comprehensive overview of the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and the related draft law amending other laws. He mentioned the reasons why the law needs to be amended and explained what needs to be changed. This removes the bottlenecks in the Employment Capacity Allowance Act that have emerged in the implementation of the Work Capacity Reform. The draft amends the conditions for the advance payment of the disability allowance in order to avoid a situation where a person would have no income for reasons beyond his/her control if he/she switched from disability pension to disability allowance. The conditions for the payment of the disability allowance are also regulated in order to make it easier for a person with partial working capacity to obtain an education, to avoid unfair reduction of the disability allowance and to ensure that the work capacity allowance is granted even if the person is unable to meet the conditions necessary for obtaining a disability allowance because of his or her stay in hospital. The Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities is amended to regulate the conditions for the identification of disabilities and the Health Insurance Act in order to alleviate the conditions for dental care benefits for people who have an increased need for dental care. Members of the Commission had a number of questions. Tiina Kangro and Jüri Jaanson pointed out that the scope of the draft is somewhat limited for people with special needs: much depends on their contract of employment, whether they work under a contract of command or any other debt-law contract. Questions and explanations pointed out that, of course, a reduction in the capacity allowance should be avoided if, for example, a month's holiday allowance is credited with a salary or the contract is worked in such a way that several months' pay is received in one month at a time. However, a system must be put in place that takes into account the fees of people with reduced capacity to work on an annual basis. All people must be able to work on different employment contracts. Monika Haukanõm asked that if an evaluation could not be carried out within 30 days, and the person would later be recognised as capable of working, which would then become more paid. The Minister explained that in this case the fee would not be recovered. This was the Commission's debate on 15 May, and after that, the Commission decided by consensus that we would initiate the draft. On 18 May we had another debate, which was the preparation of the draft for the first reading. Such decisions were taken: proposing to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 30 May (consensus), proposing to close the first reading (consensus), proposing to set the deadline for amendments at 3 p.m. on 2 June (consensus) and to appoint Mr Kütt, President of the Commission, as rapporteur. This was due to the fact that, as the Commission is the initiator, the chairman of the ex officio committee reports it. So all decisions were made by consensus. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic has also discussed the draft and adopted a supportive position. It's incredible, but it's true! A number of substantive proposals have been put forward to amend the draft; you have obviously been familiar with them. I'd be happy to answer questions if there are any.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U238	We'll see about that. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U239	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I have such a slightly more general question, not about the substance of this draft, but about the time it came to our proceedings. This principle is so reasonable and correct. Why haven't we dealt with this before?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U240	Thank you for your question. I will be honest with you that the Commission's initiative is time-critical. I can't answer why the ministry hasn't started it before, but it's good to have these problems solved before school break comes. I mean, it's about students, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-30_U241	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. There is now an opportunity to register for speeches on behalf of the political groups. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 468. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 468 amendments at 3 p.m. on 2 June. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for today's debates and decisions. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 1.59 p.m.
