ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U2	Honourable President of the Riigikogu, Mr Nestor! Ladies and gentlemen, Eight members of the Free Party Group would like to ask the Prime Minister about corruption in local governments and elsewhere. In this question, we have again paid attention, among other things, to mayors and deputy mayors. Namely, all three of Tartu's deputy mayors, who have been in trouble with the suspicions and accusations of corruption, have been mentioned there, two of them have become clear today, and they are from different political parties. The other examples that we have are unfortunately all about the Centre Party, including the application of persons convicted of corruption to the Narva Council and their recruitment to the Tallinn City Institution. In this regard, we have a number of questions. In order for an inquiry to go through the network set up by the Riigikogu's board, we have secured it by reference to at least three laws and the need to comply with them, and we hope that we will receive comprehensive answers from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U3	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In the spirit of consensus and cooperation, the Reform Party Group will submit a draft law amending excise duties on alcohol to the proceedings. Yesterday, Minister of Finance Tõniste admitted that he doesn't know why we're raising excise duties. We know he didn't know anything about what he said last night. But we also know that yesterday he spoke of this particular matter as an entrepreneur, which he repeatedly emphasised. We will present this bill as statesmen. The Estonian state is clearly harmed by the fact that excise duty on alcohol has crossed the border. The health of Estonians will be damaged, the budget of Estonians will be damaged and the Estonian economy will be damaged, because at least South-Estonia's trade will suffer enormous losses. It's kind of a case where it hurts too much. People with a tendency to drink too much are particularly vulnerable. We can talk about average consumption, but the fact is, if some people have been drinking themselves half to death and others are sober, the average number doesn't show much. But it is those who tend to drink a lot that acquire supplies, and it is those shops that are more vulnerable that are suffering economic damage. So let us restore these excise duties to an already high level, decided in 2015, and all public health, economic and budgetary arguments have been taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U5	I have adopted a bill and an inquiry. We will continue to act with them on the basis of the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 81 members of the Riigikogu are present at the plenary session.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U6	Let's get started. Second reading of the draft Act on Supplementation to § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. The Commission's waitress is Monika Haukanõmm. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U7	Mr. Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee initiated the draft Act supplementing § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act at the beginning of the summer of this year, on 13 June. We completed the first reading on 19 September when we also fixed the deadline for tabling amendments. No amendments were tabled within the deadline. The Committee on Social Affairs asked the Agency and the Pharmaceutical Industry Association for an opinion on the changes. The Agency agreed to the wording of the draft. No reply was received from the Pharmaceutical Industry Association and they did not submit any comments or proposals on the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its two meetings on 9 October and 16 October. Helen Berk, adviser to the pharmaceutical department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was present at the committee and answered the questions. In the draft, we have made only one minor change compared to the previous one. This is a linguistic change, i.e. a change in the order of words, a change in substance has not been made. As a result, the commission made procedural decisions and proposals. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose that the draft be submitted for second reading to the Riigikogu plenary session by 17 October and to propose that the second reading be stopped. When this is finished, we will be proposing that the draft be sent to third reading by 25 October and put to the final vote. The Riigikogu Board, in coordination with the Commission's rapporteur, sent the draft to second reading by today's 19 October. That is why a brief overview of the draft Supplementary Act to § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act has been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U8	Questions for the waitress. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U9	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Were all the discussions on amendments consensual or had to be voted on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U10	Thank you for your question. Yes, all these decisions were made in consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U11	No further questions. Thank you, Monika Hawkhammer! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. No amendments were tabled to draft 481. Second reading of the bill is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U12	First reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 519. The initiator's waitress is the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U13	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will introduce you to the draft amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. In general, this draft is known rather than a package of measures to support children with special needs, i.e. the HEV package. We have prepared amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which aim to improve the organisation of students with special educational needs. The aim of the changes is to provide each student with education support based on his or her individual needs and to ensure greater decision-making and more flexible opportunities for schools and school holders to organise learning and implement support systems. The amendments also concern the recognition of teachers and other educators at the highest level in the country, but I will say a few words about this at the end of my short speech. Upon coming to the study organisation for students with special needs, it should be stated immediately that each student may need additional support for various reasons during his or her studies. The organisation of the study is based on the need and volume of the student's additional support, not just the medical diagnosis. The primary need for support is assessed and decided by the school. If this is not enough and the student needs enhanced or eliminated, extracurricular professionals will be involved to help identify the need and volume of support. Undoubtedly, all learners have the right to receive an education that suits their abilities and needs at a school close to home, thus creating more flexible opportunities for setting up classes for pupils with special needs. We believe that organising basic education as a whole could be the responsibility of the local government. The core school network will become coherent and, in the future, special schools and mainstream schools cannot be distinguished at law level, thus allowing municipalities to plan their core school network more flexibly as a whole. A clearer distribution of responsibility between the municipality and the State has been recommended by the OECD among others, if there is a desire and capacity to do so. The state does not close any school for students in need of additional support, but is ready to transfer schools and infrastructure to local authorities. The state will continue to hold schools for children with special needs. The state significantly increases its financial contribution to teaching students in need of support. A total of €21.5 million is estimated to be received by school holders next year, including additional funding to ensure support specialist service (€6 million per year), increased education support for the learning of pupils in need and released for the first time as well as support for the training of pupils in need, as promised. In addition to the training arrangements for students in need of change, I will highlight a few minor changes. The current basic school and upper secondary school law does not allow for basic education at upper secondary school level, so adults receiving primary education should be enrolled in primary school which is not reasonable given the age of the students. The amendments allow schools with a purely upper secondary school level, which organise both fixed and non-statorial education, to also receive basic education in non-statorial education. The plan is to introduce a regulation to create national bonuses and scholarships for teachers and teachers in order to thank and recognise the best educational staff at the highest level of the country and to contribute to valuing the teaching profession in society. From 2018, one annual life-time employment prize for educators, two annual teachers' prizes, plus an annual teacher's prize, will be awarded each year. Alongside national bonuses, we will create opportunities for future scholarships to stimulate innovation in education. The scholarship gives the teacher the opportunity to use a free semester to participate, for example, in cooperation with the university, for self-development in a foreign country or for participation in educational policy-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U14	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much for introducing the draft. Schools are known to find it very difficult to find support staff. Several specialists have said that this is not about money, but about the fact that these specialists are not enough. For example, only half of the schools in the county of Tartu have a special teacher. If inclusive education becomes a very broad and accepted norm in each school, what is your plan where schools should receive sufficient support staff?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U16	Thank you. Good questioner! Indeed, this has been the most important point of discussion when dealing with all representative organisations. The main concern is that, for example, we have rather low post-growth logo beets. There are graduates, they also go to professional employment, but there are too few. The first thing that might make us a little happy is the fact that a lot of support workers, who are specialized teachers, logos, social pedagogues and school psychologists, are present at school, although after a few years of funding, they are at school as teachers, so-called "hidden." When we look at their workload, we see that the vast majority of them work undertime at school. This does not mean that there is no more need for these services in that school, but salaries have not been competitive and maybe that is why a person only works there for half or a quarter of a place and moves between several schools. I guess we all have to say that the decision taken about five years ago that children can get support services from the county centre was not the only solution. There are certainly specialists who can be involved at the second level for a very specific need, but I hope that we all understand together that the support service must still be available immediately and on the ground. What are we going to do with the bill? We foresee the possibility that more than 170 jobs can be created in financial terms for special needs education and specific support services alone. This gives local authorities the necessary financial capacity. If we look at the draft 2011 and the period that followed, we will see that in about three years most schools were able to find themselves specialists, but it has been the concern of the sub-unions that not all of them were highly qualified. They were good teachers who began to do this, but they did not all have the qualifications they needed. Perhaps we can call back some specialists who, in the meantime, have moved to another job if they are to receive at least the same salary as a teacher. We may also need to examine the Pathfinder centres thoroughly and ask if there are any other, more flexible solutions. I don't mean to say that we're about to disperse all the Trackers, that every unit needs to be looked at individually. There are county centres where this system works perfectly, but there are also places where there is a great deal of room for improvement. We would, in any case, give it to the level of local governments to discuss. When financing children's services with special educational needs, we also see the level of schools. It often requires not only special pedagogues or logos, but also assistant teachers and other support staff. Simpler support staff can still be found if financial resources are available.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U17	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U18	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I admit I'm worried and a little suspicious about this plan. If you yourself have now said that the Pathfinders have not succeeded to the expected extent, how can we hope that in all these 79 municipalities the required quality of advice will now be guaranteed and that this money will really be spent only for the benefit of these children and not for other purposes? There may be good will, but is this capacity really there on the ground? It is not enough that there is a psychologist and a logo beet in school. All this money may not be enough, for example, to hire help teachers. What situation does a regular teacher get in at school? Can we help him? Sorry, I had several questions at once!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U19	Thank you. With this draft, we will not in any way make inclusive education bigger or smaller. The aim of this draft is to adapt education policy to the existing situation. Over the course of this year, we have finally stated at all round tables that already today, a clear majority of students in need of support are studying in a regular school. Perhaps it comes as a surprise to many that these students do not even study in special classes, according to the EHIS, they study in normal school. We hope to achieve, with this bill and in cooperation with the labs and with the best knowledge available here in the Riigikogu, that together we will find these children and better support them. The current reality is that all surveys and feedback provided by parents show a very large difference between municipal schools. Well, that depends on people and attitudes. In some places flexible forms of study have been found to deal with these children and this has changed the working culture of the entire school. I can give an example of a school in any county that is otherwise a normal school. There are schools that work with children who have very different problems, and they understand why they need support at some point, which are the reasons, from psychological reasons to the diagnosis in the old sense. There may be another school next door where EHIS reports that there are children, but the headmaster comes to a meeting and says there are no such children. How can this attitude be changed? We all hope to move in this direction step by step together. The reality is often that when parents realize that a child needs support, they are unable to do anything and the child is simply moving to another school. Unfortunately, that's the way it tends to be. We are going through more complex cases, especially when the diagnosis is not so clear and for a very long time it is not wanted to put it in. Solutions need to be found in cooperation. For example, it is necessary to explain why a child is aggressive or how he or she can be supported. A separate category of cases, which is the most difficult from a teacher's point of view, is when a family does not recognise that a child needs support. Then this child cannot be placed in a special class or be offered special measures. There's nothing we can do until the parent is ready to cooperate. These are the cases that usually need the most work from a teacher. I just went to Haapsalu a few weeks ago to meet a schoolmaster who said yes, he's spoken to a parent 17 times, but he still hasn't been able to convince her to give the child the support this child needs, despite 17 meetings. So how can we make a difference with this bill? This is the only way to provide support to local authorities. We also provide support for schools. We will certainly look further in the process for ways in which each school can make better use of these opportunities. At the moment, the draft provides funds for the local government, but there are also alternative ideas. Perhaps there should be some way of clarifying at local and school level how the school can know exactly how much it needs and receives these resources. We'll have to see if there's anything else we need to rewrite. I believe that we will see such proposals between the first reading and the second reading during the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U20	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! My subject is a teacher and an assistant teacher. Does this draft not further increase the teacher's responsibilities? He already has a lot of responsibilities, responsibilities and responsibilities. How do you see the status of an assistant teacher? Does he have requirements and, if so, what are they? Who's following them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U22	Thank you. There have been discussions over several years on the subject of an assistant teacher on how to clarify his/her duties, also because of the kindergarten staff. These discussions have always been blocked because the terms 'help teacher' and 'teacher help' are interpreted very differently. Especially when we look at the changes that have taken place in early childhood education in recent years, it is obvious that there are very different interpretations. The assistant teacher is often called the employee who comes to the aid of the heavier students, not so much as a student teacher, but as an assistant who supports the student. In the case of a simplified curriculum, an assistant teacher is often a highly experienced teacher in the older generation, who, for example, works individually with a child in an integrated class with different age groups. So the brief answer to you is that this is now a very controversial topic, an attitude towards an assistant teacher, and what is expected of him is very, very different from one institution to another. Do you need to be more specific here? This issue has been discussed for many years, but unfortunately it has not reached a very clear approach so far. The reason is that if we agree on categories, all parties will understand that there should also be some sort of wage minimum agreement. This means that we should prescribe a'standard' for an assistant teacher to the local government, especially in the case of early childhood education. If we set qualification requirements and what he should do, the salary could be 75% or 70% of the teacher's salary. This has been the case, and this is probably also the reason why it has so far been entangled. The issue is serious because the salaries of assistant teachers are very different, from the teacher's salary to the minimum wage, and there are several options in the meantime. Do we have an overview of what is expected of an assistant teacher in schools at all, and are we simplifying the teacher's work now or making it more difficult? I hope and believe that with this draft, if we implement it on the basis of the best knowledge, we will make the teacher's work easier. Our goal is for everyone to understand that there must be support staff at school. The teacher must be able to ask for help. It's perfectly normal for a teacher to say that he has a complicated student who needs support. At the same time, we give schools the opportunity to find and finance these specialists. Of course, it is now up to the question of whether these specialists can be found. In any case, we hope and believe that we will improve the situation with this draft. The new issue is whether we will direct children with special needs more in the future than in the ordinary school or in the normal class. In fact, they're there. We offer with this bill that local governments and schools can create these classes in a more flexible way. What does this flexibility mean? If there are children with a similar diagnosis or a similar need, we will not give the exact number of children in advance. At present, for example, a class with four students in need of support can attract a fifth of such students, if they are of a very similar nature and if the teacher agrees. Perhaps there will also be a sixth student and then an additional teacher, and the situation will be resolved in this way. At the same time, there may be two students who need separate support and teaching. This is the flexibility side. Of course, this does not mean that ten pupils who need to be released can be placed in one class. This is also not educationally possible; it is not possible to work in this way with these children. Is there a willingness of teachers to continue to address this issue? All the trainings carried out by the Ministry of Education and Research, as well as in cooperation with universities, have shown that teachers seek first and foremost a better knowledge of special needs. So the awareness and understanding that they need to deal with children with special needs in school and class are very clear to the teachers. However, they need more resources and opportunities to support such students.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U23	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns § 50, which deals with an additional year. The bill states that the schoolkeeper has the right to offer an additional school year if the child is studying under simplified, subsistence or care training. If a child graduates from school, for example, according to a national curriculum, this is not an option. However, this need has been discussed for many years, for example, in children with autism spectrum disorder, as well as in children with hyperactive or other mental disorders. This is still needed, these children are developing differently and they need this extra year for both learning and development. Why hasn't this been discussed at all? This has been highlighted in the drafting process. This is not solved by the year of orientation of the vocational education system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U25	Thank you. First of all, the purpose of this additional year at the time was indeed to provide assistance to the most difficult children. This additional year is usually used for learners in special classes. In the quite final phase of the procedure for this draft, when the Government of the Republic dealt with it in parallel, you raised this issue. It was discussed with specialists from the Ministry of Education and Research and it was stated that they would be ready to return to this topic during the readings of the draft. I have no opposition. However, we should still say that since we want to give up diagnosis literally in the same way, it is important to determine where this option can be used. Our firm goal is to give the child an additional opportunity, certainly we do not want to oblige them to do anything. They may wish to move on to a vocational school or upper secondary school. Several special needs are such that the student can actually go to upper secondary school, it has been a very big change in society. These are the opportunities we want to create. If we find a good wording that gives more opportunities but does not restrict these children, I will certainly support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U26	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U27	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, If we admit that there are too few support staff in schools, have you considered, for example, increasing the national order of training for special needs teachers and logo beets?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U28	Thank you. I have met representatives of Tallinn University, it was a very substantive and long meeting, and we have discussed this topic. I've already met the Rector on the same subject, but I'll see him again. If we can be specific about these issues, it is a matter of course, because public universities are quite free to conclude their contracts. However, the school people themselves have asked for this does not solve the problem of logo beets, so that separate groups need to be created for specialized education, just as we have ordered at some point. This could be distance learning and flexible forms of study and could be free of charge for students or students, which would then be compensated by the state. We are considering this because there is a great deal of interest in the Master's degree in special education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U29	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U30	Thank you. Good minister! There are undoubtedly a lot of problems and unresolved issues in education, and this bill too must probably be worked out. It was all the more obvious that yesterday you did not fulfil the ministerial duties during your working hours, but spent time negotiating the coalition in Tallinn. It forces me to ask if you are really leaving the position of minister and going to work in Tallinn to lead the city.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U31	Thank you for your concern. I believe that this hour and forty minutes, which I devoted yesterday in order for Tallinn to have a wider discussion about how Tallinn will proceed, certainly did not harm anyone's educational interests. I will continue to take this time with pleasure to discuss further in this large city which way we want to go and how we hope to take into account the interests of all voters. Am I going to work for the city of Tallinn? Right now, I'm doing my best, continuing with the Government of the Republic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U32	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U33	Thank you. Dear Minister, It's nice that the government has a lot of money and can give it to the support staff. But the critical resource here is not money; the more critical resource is, however, the existence of specialists. That's what we've been saying and talking about for years. As a result, the system is structured in such a way that there is a centralisation element to ensure that the use of these professionals is as effective as possible. We can hardly afford to buy them from the private sector with this little money. Why do we need to turn the system upside down at the same time? This increase in the role of the municipality is nice, but efficiency is decreasing at the same time and there is a high risk that the efficiency of the use of professionals will also be reduced. What has changed now that you consider it necessary to dismantle the current system of 'not immediately'? You said about that sentence that the Pathfinder centers wouldn't be sent out on a day's notice. Try to give us a little encouragement that the efficiency of using professionals will not fall!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U34	Thank you. I'm sure you need to be very effective. Counselling must not even take place at the county level; it can also be national second-level counselling centres. They are very effective because there are students with special needs who can only be advised by a centre where such children are more exposed. When we analysed whether we were losing efficiency, if there was a local government advisory centre instead of a trackfinder, it turned out that this was better. For example, the city of Tartu has made it very clear that it wishes to build its own centre and is ready to take over all the specialists of the Pathfinder, while also providing advice at county level. The city of Tartu has had such an interest, and I think it is worth discussing in what form it is most effective in cooperation with the city of Tartu. Perhaps the city of Tartu has its own centre and, at county level, the centre of the Tartu town coordinating the advice will continue. You have to look at it. Why did I tell you we weren't sending anything out? Firstly, because the Pathfinder, as the good questioner knows very well, operates on a programme basis. Funding is guaranteed until 2020 and until then, on a programme basis, we will certainly continue to do so. But one way or another, things in education cannot remain programme-based; in that time, we must find long-term solutions. If the funding of the Pathfinder Centres comes from European taxpayers' money on the Estonian taxpayer's money, whether we will direct some of them to the first level and others to the second level, we will have to find longer-term solutions in this matter during this period. I believe that one part of this draft is that we should discuss together what is the best solution so that no child or school suffers from it. If someone has a very well-functioning system, for example, one logo beet is distributed between four schools and goes to these schools, which is a fully-functioning system in smaller places, as part of the course, it must not be lost. The following question is whether this is a regional level, or whether it is a community of local authorities, or whether the State will continue this activity under the name of the Pathfinder. It is certainly not possible for me to tell you today that one or the other option would be excluded. There are forms in the Nordic countries where advice has been provided across local government associations and is partly financed by the State. This kind of counseling works best. So there's both options. However, the level of the county centre must certainly not replace the support services available at the school. I believe that last time, the biggest problem was that when we concentrated people and specialists in the centres, we stopped financing the support services provided at school level. The saddest thing about it was that those specialists who were in school were either renamed teachers at one point or went to another.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U35	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U36	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I dare say that we are still halfway to this noble idea now, as long as we do not solve the questions of assistant teacher and teacher. At present, the Ministry, like an ostrich, is putting its head in the sand in this case and says that it is the organisation of schools and the resources are sufficient. It seems to me that the funds are not enough. I've taught a normal class of children with activity and disturbance of attention, so I know what it means to have one child and what the other 23 students' lives will be like. I have taught in a special school with three students in a small class where, without the help of a teacher, it was not possible to teach three children. This role is crucial. As long as we don't regulate it or ignore it, we may have some kind of Nordic school arrangement as ideal, but we're not rich enough for it. Will you continue to deal with this in the future? Is there any way you're going to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U37	Thank you. First of all, we must say together that the local authorities have not behaved very differently in support of support services. There are local authorities where most of the education money goes to the teachers' payroll and is used as material support. The local government council is ready to support the renovation of the school and to finance the heating and lighting of the school house, but the fact that the local government still contributes to support services, for example, has remained modest in the organizational sense. We hope that, perhaps now that local authorities are bigger and more capable of negotiating this draft, at least at sub-association level, their awareness will increase. Certainly, the specialists I have seen in the Ministry of Education and Research in the last several years dealing with the educational issues of children with special needs do not hide their heads in the sand. They're very aware. All without exception are themselves with a long teaching experience, they have been school leaders in schools for children with special needs, they know these problems and they are actively looking for solutions. It cannot be financed by the state alone; the local authority must also take responsibility. We can channel resources from the state, but the local government must also come to the aid of the schools itself. The existence of assistant teachers at school is certainly one of the key words of the local authorities' duties in the coming years. If the teacher is in the classroom alone and if there is even one student who needs special attention, it is not possible to teach others. All of these solutions, which we see in the Nordic countries or elsewhere, are such that someone is always helping in this class, where even partially HEV students are involved. After all, we have many of these examples that a student learns basic subjects separately, but certain subjects, e.g. art subjects, physical education, are studying with others. Participating students are also then needed alongside support staff, as they may be dangerous to others or to themselves. That's a fact. All those schools that essentially involve HEV students need support staff. We see that every day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U38	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Mailis! First of all, I would like to say that the issue is certainly crucial and that the issue of support specialists is so actively being dealt with is very positive. Now for that deadline. From 1 January, the law will apply. How prepared are the local governments and schools themselves? Although resources may be allocated, it has been said that there are no people. So what happens then? The law will apply, but I don't think it can be enforced. The second and perhaps more important issue is that Scandinavia has been taken as an example, but it is already said that Scandinavia has realised that the transfer of all HEV children to mainstream school or post-regional school is still a very big problem. This has caused a great deal of dissatisfaction, rather than the parents of both HEV children and other children, to have schools such as those before when HEV children were in separate schools. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U40	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, either put schools and students together or split up, it requires a very individual approach. There are parents who do not admit at all that their child needs support, and so the students are together in one school now, either way or not. Our desire is to help these schools and classes as much as possible and to improve parents' awareness. But it is also necessary to provide financial opportunities that, even if the parent does not agree and this child cannot therefore be placed in a special class, where he or she might actually feel better about himself or herself, then it would be possible for the school to involve auxiliary staff in order to enable other students to study calmly. It's an inevitability now. Do we want to say now whether it is better for this child to be involved or not? I believe that at the moment very many children are still safer when they study in a separate class, school or school wing. I am certainly not ready to say now that a child studying under a simplified curriculum would be better off in a large class. I'm sure that's not the case. These kids feel safer when they're together. These children also have joint activities. Why are children studying under a simplified curriculum or children with other spectrum disorders involved in collective activities all over Estonia? The reason, for example, is that if they go running and these students develop their own needs at this sporting event, they will see that there are still such children and that they are involved despite everything. This is why nationwide events are taking place where children with similar special needs are together and can feel like full members of society. We would like to continue all these activities. But now so much of the children with special needs are already studying in mainstream schools and this percentage is constantly increasing. We must also support students who do not attend public or private schools, but go to ordinary municipal schools and who we do not really support on such grounds at the moment. That is the purpose of this bill. As regards children with special needs studying in public schools, the approach taken by the Ministry of Education has been that if there is a desire on the ground to take over these schools for children with special needs, so that the state will provide resources and this school will be part of the school network where students and staff will be involved, then we are ready to negotiate. This is because these schools are sometimes very small and the local community does not take some schools as part of the school network. Therefore, children who would feel better studying at that school are not really included in the school. That's the reason. The school could be part of the school network in this area and everyone would understand that there are special classes in this school or that school. In other cases, it is possible to do differently and be flexible. We see that where the municipal system has these classes or even such a school, work goes better, flexibility has been better. The somewhat reluctant relationship between the state and the local government so far has rather come to the disadvantage of children. That is why we are proposing with this bill that the state give resources to the local government and is ready to hand over schools if it does not harm the students. In the case of children with certain special needs, we will, in any case, remain a school owner. With this flexibility, we may find a better solution. Here's another problem. There are schools that are so small that they probably do not stay very long as a school with their 20 children. But if the local government could find other solutions, such as making a supported housing centre for supported youth or people with special needs, then we could use these specialists in the best sense. That has also been the reason why we would like to negotiate with local authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U41	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a logical follow-up to what we have just discussed. I would like to stress that I am a very strong supporter of the ideology of inclusive education, and I am not sure that segregation is an end in itself. In my opinion, it is even harmful. At the same time, I am a little concerned that, if the law now states that the state has the opportunity to create and maintain schools for children with so-called special needs, now we are losing this concept from the law at all, as if it is no longer, and we are talking only about universal inclusive education. That's right, but these kids stay, they're kids like that, and they're gonna be kids who need special school. You're saying there's no term anymore, but you're saying that special schools seem to remain. There's a contradiction here. That's the first question. Second of all, aren't we rushing too much? It is now October, which will enter into force on 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U43	First of all, as far as haste is concerned, local authorities have been interested in gaining more resources. This is probably also the reason why local authorities have been very in favour of this draft becoming a law. All specialists also say that this will bring more resources and opportunities. It may have dictated a little bit. Let's ask the other way around: have we rushed? In fact, this bill has been developed for more than a year. On average, a draft is not going to be very fast in one year. Of course there have been discussions that preceded it since 2011. Several and several ministers have come up with proposals on how to better support children with special needs. When it comes to state regulation, it has to be said that the legislator's will to regulate and protect existing state schools has led to a precedent that has been somewhat reversed. We should specify this provision either way. The Supreme Court has also said that in this form it is interpreted in a slightly different way than the legislator intended in its time. It is in any event necessary to amend that provision. We started by looking at exactly what changes are necessary. Due to the very different ways in which children are involved, we have come to the conclusion that it is actually best and best that all children are known in the local government. Whatever their situation or special needs, it is the responsibility of the local government to ensure that they can learn, and the state must help some children financially because of their special needs. Let's take a closer look at this when we first brought the support of the support services alongside the educational support of these students. In the case of special support and enhanced support, such sums have been calculated in cooperation with specialists, which, even in the case of a rather small group, give the school or local government the opportunity either to create separate classes or to bring these children into a separate environment for their own safety. The so-called box money has been calculated relatively sufficiently in order to create a day centre or a separate small school. We still have the investment money and small investment money for the special needs measure, both of which will be opened as a programme at the beginning of 2018. They give local authorities the opportunity to adapt resources to local needs. I think that, together with these measures, the best solution can be found here. However, I would like to say that there has been no rush here, but if the Riigikogu finds that it is not possible to find an optimal solution in the next three months, then the Riigikogu must say it. I, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, see that this bill has been processed for a year, and the support group, who is prepared for constructive cooperation, is very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U44	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The key issue and key point for the full implementation of the concept of inclusive education are people. We also stated here today, together, that we lack support specialists, that we have no definition and no agreement on who the assistant teacher is and what duties he has. There are simply shortcomings in the preparation of teachers, taking into account the resources of time. But have and to what extent been the analysis of this rest of the network, such as the possibility for all schools to form separate small classes and to use additional areas, where appropriate? Does it fit the needs at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U46	Thank you. That's a good question. Every time we become more aware of how to better support children of one type or another, schools say that they need more. Not that these children with special needs always come, but in some schools they are just better able to help them now. I am not going to give examples here, also because of time resources, but when we think about examples of our childhood, of our school time, we realise that we are now taking a completely different view of such children. They were not understood or supported in their time. Schools are very different. We have schools that are very small. We have taken measures to reduce the area of use of schools, because the number of school pupils is now two or three times lower than when they were built in their time. There is no problem in finding separate housewings, entrances, or more secure areas in the school where the child can recover quietly. But we also have schools where there is an extreme lack of space where it is not possible to find a place where the child can recover. For example, if after 20 minutes of study he is not ready to spend the next 25 minutes in the classroom to continue his studies there, it will be very difficult to find a quiet place for him to recover. The director's offices, the back rooms of the gym, the compartments, we can see that the schools have wanted to find these places. We have opened these small measures for HEV because very small amounts are being asked for, for example, to build a separate room at the end of the corridor or to make some rooms sound more secure to make sound therapy or also light therapy. In fact, schools are trying very hard to do all of this, but there is a lack of opportunities. These schools, which have become active in HEVs, often no longer physically fit into their rooms. When information about children with special needs is spread in the region, the number of applications to study at the school is increasing mysteriously over one to two years. This is even happening in these small county centres, where it seems that there is no need to support different HEVs, which may not always be diagnosed. Later, it turns out that there are a lot of children coming to that school. My answer is: it is very - very much that small measures are expected to adapt and develop the conditions, create more opportunities and find additional areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U47	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U48	Thank you. Madam Secretary! This system, which is currently in force, is not either of us, but I understand this system. What I didn't understand was that the Centre Party was obsessed with giving support services back to schools, local governments. The arguments of the current system are: schools are very different, municipalities are very different, support specialists are few. This is not so much about money, but precisely about these circumstances, which is why part of the system is central in order to use these specialists effectively and not to give an advantage to the stronger. Try, however, to encourage us that this system of yours, your surrender to local governments, does not cause inequality and inefficiency. The strongest have specialists, the weak do not have, neither do local governments nor schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U50	Thank you. I'll encourage you. The next two-and-a-half years of funding will continue, with the next two-and-a-half years of the programme. With this draft, we will give additional funding to local authorities for support services. When the questioner called it an obsession of the Centre Party, I say that our only obsession has been the dispute since 2011. At that time, the draft introduced a major breakthrough in supporting children with special needs, but the dispute which was due to the fact that the service of social education was considered an additional service which the local authorities had not previously had to provide. That was 3 million kroons at the time, later in the calculation it became 2.7 million kroons, which was discussed in the negotiations between local authorities and the state on support for children with special needs and more generally support services. Since 2011, local authorities have constantly recalled that this issue has not been resolved. So this is the only thing that is still at issue. We are now providing this support to local authorities. Support services are definitely necessary at school. We are ready to consider together how support services can be expanded, either by increasing the training order of universities or by extending the opportunities for further training. For the next two and a half years, the programming period shall run. No one will disperse the runners overnight, but we have received suggestions, such as from the city of Tartu, who would like to negotiate the involvement of specialists of the runners in the support services centre in Tartu. In this case, it would not be necessary to duplicate the activities of the two adjoining centres of support. Tallinn has also offered the same. We're ready to negotiate, but we're certainly not ready to disband the working Pathfinder centers. I hope I encouraged you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U51	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U52	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. In one of your earlier responses, you mentioned contact with the management of Tallinn University on how to prepare more professionals for teaching children with special educational needs. You said it was a public university, and that is why it is a little complicated. Finland, as we know, is currently suffering from a very serious shortage of logo beets and social teachers. I hope we don't get into this situation. You briefly mentioned a public order. Is it possible to increase it so that we do not get into trouble if we do not have people who are professionally prepared? The public university sees it as too expensive and maybe not so prestigious.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U53	We are already struggling with a serious shortage of logo beets. Unfortunately, it cannot be formulated in any other way. We are suffering from a very serious shortage, with more places for logo beets than there are specialists. There could be more young people who would like to study as logo beets. What I meant when I was talking about a public university is that we have slightly different contracts with them than the specific training order agreements directly submitted. In cooperation with universities, we are trying to find ways to develop more applications to go to the teaching profession in the broadest sense and then to the teaching disciplines that provide support services. At the moment, we have to say that there are areas where the urge could be greater. That's one serious side of the deal. I also meant in the case of a public university that we do not intend to give the figures in advance with the precision of the field of study. However, we are moving towards a common understanding that if the university needs additional resources or sees opportunities to expand reception, we would be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U54	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U55	Thank you. You said that municipalities are eagerly looking for money for supporters and other specialists. It's God's truth, it's long awaited. However, the provision of money does not solve the problem, as children of HEV are still largely unable to be taught in the "normal" class and inevitably need to be created separate classes for them, but there is certainly no money, room or resources available to the municipalities. Is it intended to support municipalities in building and adapting their classrooms, or should the state still continue to operate special schools, which would make more sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U56	Thank you. The state will certainly continue to operate in certain special schools. However, since the percentage of children who attend special school has remained more modest year after year, we must not only think about existing public schools but also consider very seriously what we can do and how we can do for children who already attend municipal schools. It is particularly noteworthy that a few years ago it was seriously discussed that the state should give more support to children with heavier HEVs (the children named HEV-2) and HEV-1 should be the responsibility of the local government. At present, most students in the HEV-2 category are studying, apart from a few exceptions, in municipal school or private school. I'm just saying that to make sure we're in the same information room. This fact has perhaps surprised quite a number of people during these discussions. In the public school system, children who study according to a simplified curriculum tend to learn, and these figures have remained very, very modest. Schools are renovated, they are in very good condition, but classes are very small, which is why schools are now very small. This is largely because local authorities themselves want to deal with these children and parents do not want to send them away from school near their home. It is also important that local authorities are increasingly prepared to deal with children with special needs, as the number of children in schools is constantly decreasing. Are the measures sufficient to enable the local authority to finance the design of special classes? This measure is not large enough to help everyone, but we will definitely support the municipalities in part with this new measure. Last time the first part of this measure was open, experience showed that local authorities are actually asking for very small amounts, sometimes only a few dozen thousand are asked to adjust the small classroom or provide the school with the appropriate resources. The results are already better. For example, some local governments or schools applied for the purchase of sound equipment and headphones so that children with a disturbance of attention could do certain work, with headphones on. With a very small investment, the class was adjusted to allow these children to work peacefully in the same classroom as others. It is possible to meet children with very small investments and very smart solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U57	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U58	Thank you, good manager. Good Mailis! My second question concerns the processes that we have in parallel: there is an administrative reform, the school network in the new municipalities is getting better, the work of rural governments is going to end, and therefore the educational organisation issues and topics will go under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Research. How are you prepared for all of this in this context? What information does the Ministry have as to how reorganisation has taken place in the municipalities, how can the resources of existing support services, whether they should be re-allocated or rather concentrated, be used to exploit the resources of new borders? So, what's the situation, do you ever collect this information, and does anyone even have it? What is the state of play in all these reforms?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U59	Thank you. Today is the fourth day after the election. It is likely that no conclusions can yet be drawn in four days. Everyone has exactly the same information, members of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Education. We know that there are municipalities where a very precise agreement has been made in advance on how to proceed, including the issue of education, and there are municipalities that have been forced to join, and where there is still a refusal to communicate with each other because they go to court to argue about their affairs. We see this most in connection with the action on recreational education, which was discussed at length in the Riigikogu and which aims to ensure that already in 2018, the activities of interest are co-operating on the basis of the new boundaries of the rural municipalities. Here the picture is very clear: there are those who have submitted very thorough declarations of cooperation to the Ministry of Education and Research sub-office ENTK on the financing of interest education and have told them how they organise logistics activities etc., but there are local authorities who are not ready to do anything together because they say that they are not with anyone. Well, it's a little messy, isn't it? Are we ready to say how the school network is starting to regenerate and whether support services can be pooled? No, we don't have that information today. Most local government councils are still adjusting their compositions and negotiating. So I guess nobody's got the exact information yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U60	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U61	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. In the light of this legislative amendment, have you also discussed how to ensure that the quality of education of children who are not directly in the category under discussion does not deteriorate or reduce the attention they receive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U62	Thank you. That's a good question. By thoroughly analysing data for several years, we have found that one in five children who are not listed as children with special needs needs needs some kind of support service at certain moments of their education. It may be occasional, a need for illness, which may be due to family events. Logopedic support may be needed in the beginning, for example, at the beginning of primary school, mathematics often requires separate study groups. Our statistics say that every fifth child needs support. This is the money for support services that goes directly to local authorities and from there to schools. Its aim is to ensure that the school is prepared to implement support services. I believe that you also know that very many schools offer these students either subject teachers' consultations or create proficiency groups in certain subjects, or, as I have already said, logo beets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U63	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. In your explanation, you stated that the local governments have been allocated money and that they should continue to develop or guarantee these services, this kind of centralisation has made it possible, as if, that is, that there is a certain place from which the services are always received and that everyone understands it. Are you 100 percent sure that if this system changes, you yourself described very vividly the different levels of local governments, then these services will still be guaranteed to these children and families and will not happen in such a way that in some places the services will concentrate even more, perhaps even better, services will be obtained, but other places will be deprived of services at all? How can we ensure this, and what are the leverages? I'm also asking about higher education. If we have a shortage of specialists, shouldn't the state explicitly order specialists from universities and increase resources, making it clearly more priority based on the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U65	Thank you. I'll start at the end. The Ministry of Education and Research is ready for a significant increase in the training order, and universities are also ready. We also need to understand together that this requires finding these students. The serious issue is that there will not be enough requests. One thing is to increase the order of training, and the other is that we are together trying to find ways of finding opportunities, so we have also made these appointments either with additional tips or in other ways to motivate young people to go to these necessary specializations to study. There is a need not only for specialists providing support services, there is also a need for comprehensive school teachers and there are some other areas for which the Ministry of Education, as well as universities, are very concerned. Am I 100 percent sure there's a dispersal? We are now going to a new matter of principle, which the good questioner knows very well from his Tartu days. The dispute reaches out to whether and how much exactly the Riigikogu will write to the local government. This draft, which I will present to you today, is based on the understanding that we are making our foundations known to the local government and that we are placing an obligation on it to deal with this issue, reminding it once again that it is its duty to deal with all children. We have also calculated how many additional facilities should be available, or how many support services should be available, but we do not specify this either on the basis of class or support specialists. We do not say to the City of Tartu, for example, that we have calculated that it has 57 seats, we do say in numbers what kind of funding is going on, but does this mean that these places are in one school or are divided, whether there should be specialised schools or inter-school support centres, we do not write that down. This has been our approach. I understand that the opinion of specialists has come to the Riigikogu that this approach is too flexible. It is believed that there should be some kind of sanctioning measure in case the local authority does not do what is foreseen. It is believed that there will also be confidence at school level when it is known how many euros and several specialists have been allocated. We have met many specialists in the ministry to decide how to find the optimal solution. We certainly do not want to go to the other extreme, saying again with the tarification how many specialists there must be in several schools. As we know very well, some schools are more concerned with this subject, others are less concerned with it. We want to give more power to those who are willing to deal with it, we do not force everyone to do it. We do not foresee that if there is a school with 1000 students, there must be so many specialists, because perhaps there are 300 children per 1000 pupils in the next school with special needs. We can see that specialisation takes place in towns rather than cities. That was a somewhat longer answer, but I hope the questioner understands very well that this is the dilemma right here. That is the fundamental argument. We are, on the one hand, giving local authorities opportunities and trusting them, on the other hand, saying that we are afraid that they will not carry out these tasks. Where are the control mechanisms that the legislative power of the Riigikogu and the later executive power can implement, there is still a need to argue about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U66	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U67	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. I agree that in those regions where the population is declining and the number of students is also decreasing, there is no problem with readjustment of the classrooms for the HEV children. This is quite simply done and does not require high costs. But we also have regions where this migration is going to the Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu, so-called gold circles, where the situation is the opposite, the number of students is increasing and the number of HEV children is also increasing. Almost every class aside must be done in separate HEV classes and the problem is very big. Shouldn't the state still think that more support should be given to such regions, municipalities and schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U68	Thank you. I can tell you right away that local governments in the places mentioned, Tallinn, Tartu, Pärnu and the golden circles around Tartu and Tallinn wish the least that the state would go there to do its own state school, they want us to provide resources. These local authorities are capable enough to say that they should be provided with resources, knowledge and advice, but that they will deliver themselves. Certainly neither Tartu nor Tallinn, nor Rae Parish nor Saue Parish want us to go there to build classes or schools for children with special needs. Their desire, however, is to be very clear about the possibilities for carrying out their own tasks. Harjumaa, for example, is a place where schools of pupils with special needs have not really developed regionally and where the willingness to deliver themselves is much greater. The specific nature of these regions is that if the local authority cannot manage itself or has not been flexible enough, the parents themselves have acted. For example, in Tallinn, most of the most difficult children with HEVs study in private schools, which the state finances with separate agreements. In Harjumaa, more and more small private schools created on the initiative of parents, working flexibly and on the basis of a small community, close to home, will be created for HEV-2 children, and there will be a very good education. I think what is expected is a resource, and indeed, as many of you have pointed out, it is necessary to have someone to hire, perhaps to have support specialists. The guarantee of both of them is considered to be the responsibility of the State, but very much intervention is not recommended.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U69	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U70	Thank you. Dear Minister, I agree that finding optimal solutions, both in the implementation of professionals and in the adaptation of schools, is a key issue so that children with special educational needs can be given good education near home. But that's where my questions come from. Has it been analysed how many of the children currently studying in specialised public schools for children with special needs could be able to cope in a primary school close to home, if they were adapted in some way and if there were support staff there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U71	Thank you. If you ask like that, I'll say that really, if there are personnel and rooms are customized, then it's okay. Unfortunately, there are no quick solutions in the current situation. There are parents who have also brought children with very severe composite disabilities to a regular school. Normal school has tried to teach them and then they have been taken back to special school. Finally, both parents and schools see that they cannot provide support in this way. Could, of course, be very specific. For example, the schools of the blind and deaf, which are located in Tartu and Tallinn, will in any case remain. At least as long as there's no breakthrough that we're financially capable of providing this kind of education in county centers. We're not capable of that now. We have isolated examples of blind children who have gone to mainstream school, but this means that the school needs to take a very long step towards this. Schools that will definitely remain national are closed special schools, in the present sense Kaagvere and Tapa. They're definitely going to be national because there's another contingent. Children who learn according to a simplified curriculum are very different. There are areas where, for example, 20-30 children still attend public schools, while others go to separate classes at schools, which have also remained very small, for example in South Estonia. There is also a very good way to manage a simplified curriculum. Given the specialists who work there, it would be a shame to lose schools like this. I'd rather say, on the contrary, we're merging these schools and their fantastic educators into a local school network. For the next two or three years, we need to look at it calmly. Perhaps we will come back so that existing public schools can also be preserved. Perhaps it is decided that some of the schools that have been handed over to the local government have been integrated into the school network, some have not. But with this bill, we certainly will not lose the schools of state. But we also see local interest. For example, Kambja Municipality would like to discuss the subject, since Kambja School is very well adapted, there are specialists there, and if they see that the resource that the state has allocated to the local government is sufficient, they would rather take this school to manage the local government in order to ensure that existing professionals and best knowledge are preserved. Let's see if the merged parish is of the same opinion as Kambja. Lääne-Virumaa has also made a similar proposal. We'll meet up the next week and see if they're ready. They have also said that they want to keep their specialists. Fear and fear are that if the future of the school is not clear, suddenly the people needed may leave. The exact way this situation is going to take place must be discussed with each school separately. But we certainly won't be in a hurry to close these schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U72	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U73	Thank you. First of all, as far as this draft is concerned, the main emphasis here is on funding, rather with special support and enhanced support. We are still talking about children with more severe special needs in the HEV-2 and HEV-1 keys. When we talk about the most talented, we have had cooperation with universities and, together, funded research schools. Universities have also expressed a very clear desire to expand this activity so that it is not limited to the level of preparation for the Olympics and international competitions. All three major universities, the University of Tallinn, the University of Tartu and the Tallinn University of Technology have expressed their willingness to discuss how to motivate and find opportunities across the country for better involvement and further development. The Ministry of Education and Research has also discussed this in the preparation of the level work. Yesterday and the day before, we also had very serious discussions at the Ministry of Education about how we are now conducting more and more electronic testing in schools to bring in parts that would allow us to notice special talent or intelligence, and how more such students could be noticed. Special classes can also be used as a tool. When we speak literally of support services or assistant teachers, as the good questioner knows, some schools have formed levels for the most talented. We hope that the additional resource offered will also allow it. Most of all, I hope to cooperate with the universities that they are willing to offer with the help of technical laboratories and specific technical circles, that there will be an interest in science of particular precision. At the meeting with Tallinn University, various options were offered to attract interest in physics and chemistry. At present, the desire to study as a physics or chemistry teacher is modest, and it is very good to have even a single application a year. To encourage this interest, we need to find young people who love physics and chemistry and want to be teachers later. We are trying to offer interesting and exciting things in this area through universities and in cooperation with schools. Interested students can be attracted from schools to university centres where they can handle their subject in an exciting environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I am asking from my previous question. Officially, talent is also a special educational requirement. What's your plan for helping kids with this type of special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U75	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! We agree that Tartu certainly has the potential and the ability to cope with certain services in this area, only needs to develop further. As a minister, however, you are faced with a dilemma when we are talking about higher education and free higher education. Shouldn't the coalition propose that free higher education be abolished in whole or in part? The problem is that the state needs certain specialists, but it can't train them, but it trains those professionals that it doesn't need for free. In my opinion, this is a waste of state resources. Those professionals we really need could receive free training, and others who do better in economic terms should pay for their education in part or in full. Secondly, is it true that this resource, which we have in the form of universities, is so different that some universities want to enter these specializations more, but in Tallinn they do not fill their seats? Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U77	Thank you. First of all, when it comes to filling or non-filling places, it is natural that there are specialties with a bigger competition, and there are specialties with a smaller competition. Unfortunately, the interest in education has been rather modest. We are working to increase this interest. There have been meetings and it has been discussed whether we should expand the possibilities of scholarships, there has been a start-up grant and what else could be done in order to have a greater interest in learning as a teacher or as a support service provider. True, we do not have enough young people. There could be more people interested in this area. Certainly, a number of committees have discussed all these issues of national importance, including teacher training. It is often entangled that we are improving learning content, teachers' pay has increased, teachers' position in society has been valued, all these steps have been taken in the very right direction, but yes, there are not enough young people who would like to become teachers. We have very nice young teachers, of whom we are very proud, but there could be more. Free or Paid Education? I must admit that I did not quite understand the reasoning as to how paid education would increase interest in teacher education. But this could be a discussion that the Riigikogu could certainly hold. The Riigikogu has adopted the law that education in Estonian is free of charge. At present, we do not see any subscription for paid education in society. However, the Ministry of Education and Research is also responsible for the well-being of the Estonian language. We are concerned about this, however, that the proportion of higher education in English has increased quite quickly, while the development of Estonian terminology and Estonian as a scientific language may be damaged. This is certainly a subject on which the Riigikogu must discuss. We are working on the preparation of the next language strategy, laying down language policy orientations up to 2030. We have a very strong ambition for the continuous development of language and terminology in different areas. We need the Riigikogu to keep an interdisciplinary lever here. Whatever agriculture, fisheries, construction or whatever field, there must be an Estonian terminology that is constantly evolving. This, too, concerns the subject of higher education, but I repeat, there is no subscription for paid higher education at the moment. Rather, we have completed the first cycle of free education. Performance agreements will be discussed with universities. We have promised to open up the issue of responsibilities in 2018 together with universities. We must definitely review the necessary resources together. If the university is not allowed to take extra money on the market, then this need must be covered by taxpayers' money, because the university cannot endlessly cope with the same fixed amount of money, an additional resource is needed. These are topics that I hope will also be discussed by the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U78	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U79	Thank you. This draft also intends to change the calculation of teachers' salaries, which is financed by the state. The amendment is that, if so far students with different types of special needs have had different bounty coefficients, it is now proposed that all children with more severe disabilities have a uniform bounty, i.e. a coefficient of 4. We know that at this point in one-to-one education, I think the coefficient is 14.5. In the explanatory memorandum, we read that according to the Ministry, there is hardly any situation in which a number of children with special needs come into regular school at the same time. Now I'm asking. If one of the schools near home gets into a hyperactive, autistic, escape and panic attack child who needs this one-on-one training, then now the state will finance his teachers' salaries with a coefficient of 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U80	Please ask me a question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U81	What is this mechanism that ensures that the municipality puts so much money into it? How do you guarantee that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U82	Thank you. I'm sure it's the most sensitive subject. In all this draft, the Ministry of Education and Research's own specialists had the most controversy over this individual training. When individual education was introduced into the law in the Riigikogu, as you probably know very well as a specialist, a very specific group was discussed. Based on the calculations, there were 36 such children in Estonia. The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu received this information and a single target group was considered very clearly. Life has made its corrections. The number of these children has increased by several dozens a year. If I'm not mistaken, there are more than two and a half hundred children who have gone through one-to-one education. In some schools, these figures are quite large, as the explanatory memorandum shows. Of the specialists of the Ministry of Education and Research, no one is of the opinion that several children with very difficult special needs cannot enter one school. On the contrary, that's usually the case. When one school begins to deal wholeheartedly with students with special needs, more and more children will come because the trust of parents is growing and then there will be more children with rather difficult special needs. What is faced with one-on-one learning, these proportions and how this situation has developed, I believe, would deserve to be discussed in the Riigikogu. But at the moment, the Ministry is of the opinion that this increase in one-on-one learning does not correspond to the educational objective that was originally planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U83	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U84	Thank you, good Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. For years, we have been talking about the lack of teachers or support specialists. Is it ever possible to achieve a decisive breakthrough so that we can take this issue off the agenda? You guys are saying we're moving in that direction. We have been moving in this direction all along, ten years at least, all the time teachers' wages have risen by a few percent. Mr Kruus's proposal, in your view, is not good; it does not support the arrival of specialists at school. Is there any way we can make a breakthrough so that we can put the issue of shortage of specialists aside at school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U85	Thank you. Maybe I wasn't expressing myself exactly. We are already looking for students, trying to convince young people and attract them with a scholarship, but if we make teacher training pay, the numbers of learners will most likely not increase. That's what I was trying to say, but I realized the questioner had a slightly wider idea. He meant that, in general, additional resources should be brought to higher education and discussed. Can we say that at some point the pay of teachers is no longer an issue? I'm convinced it's not. If we look at the countries that set an example for us, both in terms of teachers' pay and in terms of organisation of work, we will see that in all elections and in all discussions, the issue of teacher's pay is also at issue in these countries. I believe that we like the pay of Dutch teachers, for example, in terms of proportions. However, with one of the most recent strikes, it was the teacher's salary that was demanded to rise. It seems to us that in Finland, teachers' pay is a proportionate example for us, but there too, among upper secondary and primary school teachers, there was a mad resentment when trying to reduce the very large pay gap between primary and upper secondary school teachers. This caused great resentment because upper secondary school teachers felt that this was not justified. So it is also a sensitive issue in these countries. There are many teachers, teachers are a very effective target group, they are usually very powerful negotiators of collective agreements, as well as strikers. In most countries teachers are allowed to strike. Politically speaking, this issue remains to be discussed, even when the other side of the negotiations is no longer a state, but a local authority. But if you mean whether it is possible to solve the issue of proportions, I hope that our economy will continue to grow if we all work towards it. In the case of economic growth, there is always a desire for the teacher's salary to increase at least at the same rate. This is how we talk every year in the debate on the state budget again about wage increases and the need to channel money to the payroll fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U86	George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U87	Thank you, Minister. I will continue on the subject started by my colleague Urmas Kruuse, asking about the impact of paid and free higher education on the availability of specialists. Of course, I don't want to start a wide-ranging discussion here on free higher education, free stuff doesn't exist in itself. But I would basically like to clarify whether the current state budget seats, the places created for the state, have justified themselves. How many of the specialists who have graduated from school go to work in a specialty, as support specialists, and how many will disappear elsewhere? Can you say that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U88	I don't have the exact figures with me, but in proportion, about a third goes to work right now. In fact, a lot of logo beets go straight to work in the private sector. They're going to their professional work, but to the private sector. So even though professionals go into professional employment, many of them do not reach school or kindergarten. This is a problem in our field. Simply in Tallinn and Tartu there are many who are willing to buy logo beet services from a private structure. We also see, in the case of the Pathfinder centres mentioned today, that even if these specialists are very busy in the county, very many of them are also making use of the opportunities to earn money in the private sector, because there are simply people who are willing to pay for it. Unfortunately, there are not enough graduates, i.e. not everyone completes their studies. On the other hand, we must say that more than half of the people currently providing support services do not work full-time. Average occupancy is 45%. Does the rest of them work in the private sector or has the rest not found a professional job? It requires even more analysis, but 45% occupancy is very low.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U89	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U90	Thank you. I'm going to specify my last question because I didn't get an answer. I meant the scale effect. The explanatory memorandum also explains that if all disabled children have the same bounty, the schoolkeeper or the director can take the money down from a child who needs it less and put it on another child. But I have a question. If a child with a very serious disability comes to a school near home and needs very extensive teaching efforts and is financed by a factor of 4, or are two children with severe disabilities coming, and both of them also financed by a factor of 4, is there a mechanism in this draft or in your mind that ensures that, in this case, the municipality puts more money out of its free will?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U91	Thank you. First of all, at the beginning of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act it is stated that the local government must provide education for all students, taking into account their needs. If you ask whether the special needs of a child who needs special education have been specifically mentioned in the law, I will say that there is not. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act contains separate provisions that say in which case children should be taught separately and in which case together. Do we have some sort of coercive mechanism besides providing the local government with education for the students? I understand your question very well, and I know that you have had many exchanges with many specialists on this subject. I do not have a good answer to you on how we can put pressure on the local government, other than that we have imposed an obligation on it by law. Perhaps the Riigikogu is ready to impose special fines on local government. The general logic of the Riigikogu as a legislator has been that we impose an obligation that is usually sought to fulfil, and if it is not met, there are some penalty mechanisms for this. Then maybe we should discuss what these coercive mechanisms are. The requirement that the local government must provide education for each child, taking into account his or her needs, has been in place since Estonia regained independence in principle all the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U92	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, my question may not have been so much about money, because the money is always low, no matter how much he earns. I wanted to know that maybe the ministry has some ideas about how we could at school once eliminate this shortage of staff so that we no longer have to talk about the lack of support specialists and no one wants to go to physics, mathematics or chemistry. Perhaps there are thoughts on how we can overcome this challenge. You are already a minister for the right number of times and, in the meantime, you have accused other ministers that this problem has not been solved. Maybe now you've got some ideas about how we're gonna get over this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U94	No, there is no single solution here. What other countries are using can be used: change in society, valorisation of teachers' work, use of support services so that the teacher can do more of his basic work and have support in class for children who are more complicated and have the opportunity to use auxiliary staff. The teacher must be clear about his or her rights and the rights of the children and the mutual responsibilities and support of the community. Research programmes show a significant improvement in society's attitude towards teachers. We have young people who are very happy to talk about their teacher experience. In the meantime, in a period of rapid economic growth, there was a time when the teaching profession was somewhat obscured. What else can we do? We have scholarships, students need to be attracted to the subject through activities of interest, there are a number of research programmes, Rocket 69 and other activities that make young people smart through exciting experience. It's been done so far, but there's no magic wand here, that's a set of measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U95	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U96	Thank you. Dear Minister, Let me give you an example. The HEV kid is lucky to be able to go to school near his home, study in a small class with four students and all kinds of professionals around. But when comprehensive school is over and she goes to a vocational school, such as the Tartu Vocational Education Centre, there are no small groups for HEV children and the possibilities for acquiring her specialty are very narrow, this choice of specializations is very narrow. I have been approached by my parents and have said that this is a serious problem because the child falls out of school quite quickly. Are there any changes expected from the Ministry to include smaller groups in vocational schools and to complete education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U97	Thank you. That's a good question. We have planned that a new VET financing model will be in place from 1 January. The clear priorities for next year's vocational education and training are flexible forms of learning, enabling children in need of an adaptation period to benefit from a year of orientation, and providing support services. Indeed, vocational schools vary greatly in Estonia. There are some where there is a little more specialization for special needs children, where their students are very nicely, effectively dealt with, and there are schools where there may be less experience. But it is precisely to prevent drop-out that support services, smaller groups, the possibility of using the Year of Orientation, as well as the possibility of moving more flexibly from one group to another and the opportunities for traineeships offered in cooperation with local employers. Basic funding means greater stability, so a number of changes in vocational education are planned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U98	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U99	My question specifically concerns the Tartu Vocational Education Centre. Will that style be embraced there too? If there are vocational schools where all this is done, it is different, but if the child has been able to go to school near home, the parents would like him or her to be able to go to vocational schools near home. So what are the solutions? Is the same system operating in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U100	Thank you. Smaller vocational training groups are open in Kambja near Tartu and are suitable for children with more complex HEVs. The reason is that there is a desire to study in Tartu to cross South Estonia, which has led to a lack of space in the schools there. There are several reasons why groups of children with more severe special needs have been made in Kambja. Feedback has been extremely positive. For children who come to regular groups but need support, money has been allocated to Tartu so that these support measures can be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U101	Thank you. There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister, for your thorough explanations. The Commission's rapporteur is Mr Aadu Must, Chairman of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U102	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. The Committee on Culture discussed this compelling draft on 9 October. I even brought all the source material, nearly 100 pages, to show that it was still material, but after the long discussion that preceded here today, I don't think I need to talk about its weight. In short, the Commission's attitude or comment, for the Committee on Culture, is very old, many times and thoroughly under a number of themes, as well as a separate subject area. The Committee on Culture discussed this with great substance and enthusiasm when the Minister was still a member of the Committee on Culture, and many former ministers remember this issue, because it has had to be raised over and over again. The debate on the current draft law has not had any notice of the fact that it is perhaps a great addition to the membership of the Committee on Culture, no political polarisation or any attempt at the dominance of one or another political power. On the contrary, there is a strong consensus that this is a very important issue of Estonian education life. It is also good to recognise that many of the things discussed earlier in the Committee on Culture, together with the representatives of the Ministry, have reached the material of this same draft. So this is not a new issue in the Commission. The Commission has already received a number of opinions and suggestions from teachers. So this package of paper we're gonna talk about gets fatter and fatter and fatter. As a point of dispute that we can mark during the proceedings, I would point out that some have more central authority faith; others believe that local government can be trusted. There is quite a lot of criticism in the package of letters of concern about the institutions that have been in place. Well, according to the paperwork, they're good, but some of the Pathfinder centers say that if you have a problem, you come in three months and we'll teach you. So this landscape is really very different. In the Commission, the Minister of Education and his team were discussing this issue. In addition to the Minister, Piret Sapp, adviser to the school network of the Ministry of Education and Research, Tiina Kivirand, adviser to the General Education Department, and Indrek Kilk, lawyer of the legal department were present. The Commission was present almost in full, only Heljo Pikhof was on a business trip, and Laine Randjärv was replaced by Liina Kersna, who not only replaced it, but worked very actively on this issue. The questions raised in the Commission were much similar to those addressed today. In addition to the issues of children with special needs, the preparation of teachers, special needs teachers and logopaedics was also addressed, which was also a long discussion here today. They also reached the end of teachers' rights. Is the teacher allowed to pee or not? But all of this we're going to talk about in the context of another bill. Of course, we were talking about bottlenecks. If, in conclusion, you ask the Commission for a debate as a'summary of mind' whether it is believed that the education system or the system of caring for children with special needs will be completed by this law, then the answer is of course not. What is the point of this bill? The idea of the draft is that it will make the situation much better and reduce bottlenecks. You know, education is the same as the city of Tallinn, which was never supposed to be finished, because as things evolve, our demands and wishes will certainly increase. Of course, this topic is linked to a number of parallel areas. The question that has already been raised several times today is what happens in the case of positive development when children with lighter special needs are brought to mainstream schools. Is life going to be cheaper, and there is no need for special schools or special classes. The clock is ticking over and over again: you know, good friends, you're gonna have to start making new special schools for capable people. I will say only one sentence for my part, which also went through the debate in the Commission very briefly. Have you ever heard of the biological species of tug beetles? Tugs are a regular student who is studying at a school where there are many people who need special attention, assistant teacher service or, as Andres Ammas said, who goes away to the teacher's attention. And then instead of learning, normal kids start to act like they're learning, a teacher pretends to teach them, and puts grades, but their children's abilities aren't developed. However, our children's abilities are our guarantee of sustainability and the greatest national wealth. So there are plenty of problems. In all procedural decisions, the Commission was consensual. There was only one such purely bureaucratic thing that might deserve a correction. I note that our proposal, based on the time frame given to us, was to put this issue on the plenary agenda yesterday, but the constructive and commendable proposal of the Riigikogu's board was to share our burden more evenly and so this item came on the agenda of today. The Commission is consensual that this is a very necessary law and that it certainly needs to be dealt with further. It is also important to stress that, by the deadline for submitting amendments, we have offered 1 November 2017 at the end of the working day, or even more precisely at 5.15 p.m. That's all for me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U103	Honourable waitress! I'm going to be more specific: November 1 or November 2, as it says on my paper?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U104	Sorry, right! The whole schedule moved on by the day. See, I got into trouble with the rhnung. Thanks for the clarification. It's November 2nd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U105	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Heljo Pikhof, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U106	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is to amend the regulation of the organisation of studies for pupils with special educational needs. The Ministry of Education and Research plans to give all comprehensive schools for children with special educational needs to the administration of municipalities. In future, the state would only share responsibility through funding. The aim of the changes is to address the needs of students individually and to create a needs-based and flexible system of support for learning organisation, which is independent of the type and form of ownership of the school. It is also planned to increase the financial contribution of the state to support children with special educational needs in order to ensure that support services are available to them. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal states that activities in the fields of education, social affairs and health are uncoordinated and duplicate each other. The volume of services is also insufficient, as basic education is the responsibility of local authorities, but their capacity, motivation and resources vary greatly. I agree that the division of responsibility between the state and the municipalities is blurred. Since 2010, the principle of inclusive education has been taken into account, according to which pupils in need of support should generally study in the primary school at their place of residence according to a common national curriculum. It is the duty of the state to establish and maintain schools for students with a particular educational need that is more difficult. From this point of view, there have been a number of litigations over the distribution of responsibilities and the content of the obligations between the State and the municipalities. The Court has found that it is the responsibility of the state to cover the costs of students with a more difficult special educational needs, even if the student is studying in municipal schools. It is clear that children must not be placed in an unequal position or be distinguished between children in public schools and children in municipal schools. I fully agree that the child's fundamental right is to live at home, study at the school closest to home and receive the necessary support. Support services may not only be educational, often family needs support. Teaching must be based on the actual needs of the child, not on a medical diagnosis. Special educational needs may arise unexpectedly. As the Minister said, in this case, the child must receive immediate assistance. Such a sudden turn of events raises a number of concerns and questions. After all, we have so far moved towards taking responsibility for educating students with a more demanding special needs. It should be taken into account that the administrative reform is just coming to an end, which means that new municipalities are still emerging and there is still a lot of confusion. We cannot assume that all municipalities will be equally capable of organising the studies of students with more special needs from 1 January 2018. There is also no certainty as to whether there are sufficient expertise, trained teachers, social and health professionals and support specialists. In such a situation, such fundamental changes, which are urgently intended to be carried out, present a high risk. I believe that under no circumstances should the essence of school work and the quality of education for pupils with special educational needs suffer. The most important thing here is the interests of children. The noble aim of all of us must be to improve the teaching and preparation of the HEV children. There are 18 state-owned HEV children's schools in Estonia. In four of them, children go from all over Estonia. In so-called national schools, students with a more difficult special needs learn: children who have a visual, auditory or exercise impairment or who have additional special educational needs other than exercise disabilities. They are also intended for children with severe mental illness, emotional disorders, behavioural disorders, and education in coping and care. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U107	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U108	I believe that these four national schools should continue to remain state-owned, become competence centres and support municipalities in the future. It is worth considering the proposal to create a separate national competence centre that will in future support and assist all municipalities in the learning activities of students with special educational needs. My vision is that there will be a two-tier school system consisting of state schools or competence centres and schools owned by municipalities. The Social Democrats consider it reasonable to take time off in order to discuss such a sensitive matter and so many people. At the same time, the Minister's speech today gave him the belief that it would be possible to find a suitable solution for the majority in the near future and to proceed with the procedure for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U109	The general principles of the draft law continue to be discussed. Liina Kersna on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U110	Can I have more time just in case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U111	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U112	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, Inclusive education as a principle is certainly right. Each child should have the opportunity to attend a strong school close to home and receive adequate support on the education path due to their special needs. Each child's potential should be developed as an ideal that we strive for. The question is whether the current schools, where there is a drought of teachers and chronic support professionals, are ready to do so. It should be noted that according to the National Audit Office, 71% of children with behavioural disorders did not receive treatment on time; their treatment started on average two years after the first documented symptoms were discovered. This is the current situation. The unprofessional inclusion of a child with special needs in the "normal" class may lead to the opposite of what is expected. If the child does not receive the necessary support in time, his or her special need may become worse. I don't think it's out of malice, it's out of incompetence. Professionals who come into contact with this field every day see these sad stories too often. For example, a student in the sixth grade who was unable to read, despite his abilities, has reached the specialized educators. Such cases should not be allowed by the system, either today or in the future. How can our teachers, who have the greatest burden, cope? How can we ensure that the potential of all children in the class is manifested when there are several children in the class with special needs, but supporters and tutors are simply not found? Without the support team, inclusive education cannot be successfully implemented. At the same time, it is not regulated who is at all an assistant teacher, what his duties are, what his preparation and salary levels should be. The workload and salary of the rest of the support team (social and special needs teachers, logos, as well as school psychologists) would also need clearer regulation. If, as a society, we affirm that we attach importance to the implementation of inclusive education, it would be fair to link the salaries of support staff to those of teachers. This is also a prerequisite for making the profession more popular. It is also likely that national training orders for special needs teachers and logo beets should be increased, as there is clearly too little to implement their inclusive education on the labour market. Specialists in the Education and Social Department of Tartu County Government have said that the biggest problem in finding specialists is not money, but that they simply do not have enough. For example, in the county of Tartu there are 26 schools, logos and social pedagogues in 62% of schools, special pedagogues are employed in almost half of schools and psychologists only 35% of schools, all specialists are available in only five schools. Apart from having a support team, it is important that teachers feel secure and supported in the classroom so that they have sufficient skills and knowledge to cope with the various special needs and know that they are not alone. Many existing teachers need additional training. In teacher training, we should significantly increase the share of specialized education. The amendment provides that local authorities receive funding from the government as schoolkeepers to implement inclusive education. It's not a gift, it's a much greater responsibility. The head of school and the schoolmaster must decide and ensure the support that a particular child needs on his/her way to school. The question is how we, as legislators, can ensure that the additional resources granted to local authorities to provide support services are also targeted at schools. Who controls it and how? Who advises them? A good colleague, Tiina Kangro, loves to give an example from Norway where, after 20 years of inclusive education, studies showed that 30% of children with special needs had not received sufficient support, the money had been largely used to develop the general school environment. Once again, I do not believe in maliciousness; rather, such decisions are made out of ignorance. This is why it is extremely important that we have regional competence centres, schools where children with special needs are taught daily and, in addition, regional schools are trained and advised in implementing inclusive education. It is important that schools across Estonia receive rapid, professional and practical support to support children with special needs. To sum it up. Applying inclusive education as a principle in our education system is the right direction, but it requires teachers and school leaders on top of you with special educational needs, a sufficient number of support staff, competent decision-makers at local level and a quality school advisory system across Estonia. If these conditions were met, this law could also be adopted as a matter of urgency. But these assumptions are not guaranteed. We cannot adopt this law in haste, it is not right. I hope that we will take the time to discuss this matter thoroughly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U113	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Ms Kangro will take the floor. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U114	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! After this very long discussion, it makes no sense for me to start describing what this draft intends to do in Estonia. I will get straight to the point and say that my group does not consider it possible to enforce this draft as a law without significant changes being made there. However, it should be taken into account that these changes require some sub-topics to be re-examined and thoroughly revised, as well as calculated. This will inevitably take more time than the five minutes we have until Christmas when the law should be passed so that it can take effect from 1 January, as has been the plan of the Ministry of Education. I take the right to say that this bill is a failure of lawmaking. We talk almost every day in this Chamber about a lot of drafts that they do not have the intention to develop, the impact analysis, etc. The first version of this bill, when it came from the government, almost didn't have an impact analysis. Who has doubts about this can look at the eight-page comment from the Ministry of Justice, where very detailed reference was made to what things are all unexplored and what should be written down. Let me give you some examples of impact analysis in its current form. I would add that after my long meetings with the officials of the Ministry of Education who dealt with this draft, they made a number of changes to the chapter on the impact assessment of the draft. But the result now I say straight again is completely comic. Since it was very fast, something had to be included in the bill in a few days, it was probably simply raised by copying and pasting whatever chapter of the impact analysis so that the text would be longer and give a smarter impression. I'm quoting a couple of points from an impact analysis in its current form. First place: '[E] there is no reason to believe that the availability of basic or general secondary education for students and their parents is somehow deteriorating. ' Second place:'[E] there is no reason to believe that the quality of basic or general secondary education for pupils with special educational needs and their parents is somehow deteriorating. 'A separate chapter is 'Impact expression and assessment of significance'. It has been said that the main target group for the changes is very small, as children with special needs attend schools of less than 3% of all primary school pupils and therefore the impact of the change is negligible in view of the above. There is also a section that says that the biggest obstacle to widespread support and involvement of pupils with special educational needs is the outdated knowledge and attitudes of the various parties involved, which concerns parents, teachers, school leaders, school teachers as well as fellow students and children in the wider social environment. However, this statement will be decided upon. It would make sense to take note of this argument from the Centar study and to deal with these obstacles in some reasonable way. But in order not to get caught up in what we have been talking about for a long time, I think it would be good to open up the real reasons for such a draft. The Minister of Education rightly argued here that the subject has been dealt with for a very long time, six-seven years, and now, to some extent, this direction has been taken to bring about a common front of education, social and health workers around him in response to the needs of the child, which has indeed been done for a year or more. But there are particular reasons for what has finally come to pass. We should have gone on with the idea of how to make changes to the law in order to ensure optimal support for children with special needs at school, in combination with these three systems, we should have focused on this. However, unfortunately, two factors not related to children with special needs thwarted this good plan. The first one was what Heljo Pikhof has already mentioned. Perhaps one of the real reasons why we are in a hurry and why we want to give all responsibility to LAs, together with the money-sustaining, is that last year the court settlements came, that according to the law, it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that schools for children with special needs are maintained and that their costs are covered. The Ministry of Education, or the State, thus became obliged to cover the costs of certain municipal schools, in particular those which have received the court settlement. But, as we know, the example may be contagious, and therefore there was a feeling that we could transfer the whole thing with money to local governments and then withdraw from the law the second sentence of § 2 (4) of the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which says that the state will ensure that schools are set up and maintained for children with a more complex special need. It's a motivator. The second motivation, as we all understand, is what is happening with the reform of local governments. We have mantra that new and larger municipalities... Is all my time over already?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U115	Yeah, it's about eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U116	Okay. We have said that large municipalities are becoming highly capable, but at the same time we know that their income base is not enough to create this capacity. There is now a need to find ways to generate more money for local governments, because this 25 to 30 million next year and beyond is one thing, but it is a drop in the sea. These are the two reasons why we are actually faced with such a very confusing draft, which is very, very risky for children with disabilities, their families and, in fact, the whole school system. I'm done right now. I propose an opportunity for a private interview to talk more deeply and more closely if any of my colleagues have questions about an area that I am well aware of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U117	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there are still negotiations ahead, so that it is possible to express our thoughts in full public in this large Chamber. The ideas of the opposition are expressed by Krista Aru of the Estonian Free Party. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U118	Mr President! Dear Minister, Good people's representatives! The principle of inclusive education, which we believe this draft law should interpret and expand in the opinion of the Free Party Group, and on which it should also help to apply better in real life, requires a little more than just focusing on children with special needs. Although this bill specifically addresses the issue of children with special needs, the principle of inclusive education also includes a number of other components. Today, unfortunately, we cannot make sense of inclusive education in a wider context, and we have not done this at all before. I would like to remind you all of a very beautiful sentence: education is a matter of people's lives. In haste, once again, by solving such a question, we do and we can hurt, make a mistake and hurt some other area. In our view, the Free Party Group, this direction is actually correct and, as a whole, everything that is being tried is necessary and certainly the result of one or the other screaming contradictions, including the lack of funds from local authorities. You shouldn't deny that. However, there are a number of major circles of problems that are unnegotiated and unnegotiated and which require a more thorough approach. First of all, the same support specialists. All of us acknowledge and know that they are not there and are not coming. The University of Tallinn is said to be starting to train them. When are they gonna be ready as specialists? What's going to happen in schools, we can't take any responsibility at all right now. Second of all, assistant teachers. We're saying it's possible to hire assistant teachers. Where can I find them? What are they gonna do? What's their status? What are their rights and obligations? We have never dealt with it. Teacher rights. On the one hand, it is said that teachers' rights cannot be increased because they run counter to the general value base and accepted practice. On the other hand, we leave the teacher in front of the class again. In this connection, the responsibility, responsibilities, and the ability to spot children's needs must be clearly mentioned, and the right time must be taken to form small classes or to teach these children separately. It is also important for the public to be aware that inclusive education includes such opportunities and will certainly make a major contribution to improving the overall quality of education. The next big set of problems relates to the readiness of school buildings. Are we putting more tasks on those local government leaders who are just getting in place? In January, they still have work to do with other problems, and yes, but we will add another responsibility. I'm sure they can handle it, but maybe they should give them a little more time to get used to it, negotiate and think about it in a new situation. Schools offer very different opportunities. The minister also admitted that there is room in some schools, that there is no place to find it, that the hallway should be used. The issue of transport has not been resolved, as there is certainly a need for transport. Is there any transport, is the municipality able and able to guarantee it? Health centres are also being set up. This is a whole new complex of problems and questions that we should discuss. It is important to think about ordinary children, about how well the teacher can teach and how well he can provide education. We should certainly not forget that these children, too, need to be given the best education at every level of school. Once again, education is a matter of the people's lives. There is nothing else to discuss and consider here, and then the smartest decision to make. The Free Party Group supports the overall direction, but it considers it wiser to discuss the matter a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U119	Since there are no more requests for speech, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 519. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 519 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November. Ladies and gentlemen, The President has received a paper stating that the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to extend the session of the Riigikogu on 19 October until the end of the agenda, but no longer than 14 o'clock. This leads to a vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the session of the Riigikogu on 19 October until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 2 a.m. Please take a stand and vote. 49 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 6 against and 1 abstention. The proposal received strong support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U120	We'll continue the trial. The third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Private School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please report to the Minister of Education and Science of the Speaker's Office, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U121	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am pleased to introduce you to the draft law amending the Private School Act. The Government of the Republic has handed over to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Private Schools Act, which creates more favourable bases to support covering the operating costs of private schools from the state budget. In order to receive the allowance, it is necessary to keep the tuition fee for private schools lower, to provide high-quality learning, to ensure transparency in the educational costs of private schools, and to invest all the profits earned back in the activities of the school. The draft does not change the basis for allocating education support. Education support will continue to account for the bulk of the funding allocated from the state to private schools and private school holders. Continued cooperation with representatives of private schools has been carried out in the preparation of the draft. The most dissent has been caused by the requirement to charge the tuition fee to a private school for operating expenses. The purpose of the tuition fee is to make private education more accessible in its diversity to children in families with lower incomes. It is proposed that, in the first year of implementation of the amendment, the ceiling would be 35% of the national minimum wage, 30% of the minimum wage next year. What kind of tuition ceiling is needed in order to ensure fair and equal access in the future, this is demonstrated by the discussion in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture. Private schools have also been the subject of an open-ended licence requirement for private schools. This requirement fully supports the image of private schools as a provider of good quality and diversity of education. The state has a responsibility to monitor education. The introduction of a quality requirement as a prerequisite for obtaining public support is therefore understandable. In preparing the draft, I met with representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments. The main concern of municipalities is how they can contribute to decisions on the financing of private schools in their territory. Discussions on this issue will certainly continue in the Committee on Culture as well. In the draft, the operating allowance for a private school is as high as the average operating cost of municipal schools per student in the municipality where it is located. The logic here is similar to that of providing education support; the education allowance per pupil for private schools operating in the territory of the municipality is similar to that of municipal schools. Until 2020, all private schools will receive an operating cost grant of 75% of the average operating costs of municipal schools. If the conditions for obtaining an operating cost grant are met, the draft provides an opportunity to apply for a new grant of the average operating cost of the municipality as early as 1 January 2018. Private schools, which do not meet the requirements set out in the draft, will be able to continue to receive 75% operating cost support until 2020 and to bring their activities into line with the requirements set out in the draft within two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U122	The first question to the minister is put by Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U123	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I wonder what the Ministry's forecast is if many of the private schools currently operating, which are in the order of 60, meet the conditions laid down to receive State support for operating costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U124	Thank you, good questioner! The current situation is as follows: the number of private school students is just over 7,800 and the majority of them, more than 70%, go to private general education schools in Tallinn and Tartu. If we look at the requirement regarding tuition and tuition ceilings, it would be justified if we split these private schools by type of school. There are religious schools, alternative education schools, private schools that work according to an international curriculum, or English-language schools, and there are other private schools. The general picture is that there are mostly no problems with setting tuition fees in schools implementing alternative pedagogy and schools with religious slopes, as their tuition fees are below this ceiling. However, international schools are all in a situation where they would not receive operating support in this form, unless the legislator would like to mention them separately and say that they would still receive this support. At present, their average tuition fee is approaching EUR 14000, which is significantly higher than the ceiling. The pictures of other private schools are very written. There are schools that have pointed out at the meetings that, even with a 25% ceiling, they will not even try because it is too low for them, and there are private schools who have said that they certainly want to make efforts to bring down tuition fees and find other sources of funding. If we look at the situation only on the basis of the tuition fee, I would say that most schools qualify if the so-called international schools were to be excluded. Some schools also do not see the need to change in the middle of the academic year. We must take into account that agreements have already been concluded on 1 January and some schools do not want to make these adjustments, because in the case of ceiling, the first provision that applies is 35% of the minimum rate, then 30% and beyond. The second round of topics concerning private schools is fixed-term and fixed-term contracts. Here is also a picture of letters, also literally, because the table I received today at the Ministry of Education and Research, based on these data, is multicolored. So the picture is the letters. It can be said that two thirds of schools already have an open-ended permit. I don't get the exact percentage right now, maybe 60%, maybe 70%. There's a lot of schools with permanent permits. On the other hand, time-limits have been issued for very different reasons. The Ministry of Education and Research is seriously working on this data set to explain exactly what these reasons are. This is partly due to the fact that these schools have only just started their activities, and they are most likely to be granted permission for an indefinite period of time, if it can be seen that the school has a frame and no questions have arisen. This is just a perfectly normal first step in the initial phase. There are a number of schools that are most likely to be approved, and there are schools where there is really a lack of qualified teachers. We need to consider the proposal made at the meeting of private school holders to meet schools when issuing open-ended permits, for example, when it is seen that there are young teachers at school who are currently studying at university, this could be taken into account as a positive factor in determining the permit. Now monitoring of rural governments is concentrated in the Ministry of Education, this process is ongoing. I believe that, between the first and second readings, all the members of the Committee on Culture will receive the information already specified on what proposals we have on the introduction of these permits, so that this is not the only obstacle to accessing funding. Indeed, compliance with quality requirements is a condition for obtaining an open-ended authorisation, and this does not restrict the possibility for private schools to receive funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U125	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U126	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Minister! During the debate on the previous item, you said that the autonomy of local governments is very important, but now you yourself have pointed out that the biggest problem for local governments is that they cannot have a say in the organisation of their school network. The second part of this problem is that, in my opinion, the introduction of this ceiling in the way you have pointed it out at the moment is in some respects discriminatory, despite the fact that the Ministry of Education and Research and you have said that this is very important support for private schools. In my opinion, this excludes the development of certain schools and their possibility of receiving support at all. These are two very controversial points which, in my opinion, do not take into account the objectives of general education. Do you agree with me or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U127	Thank you. First of all, the ceiling. When it comes to taxpayers' money, a private school receives education allowance (the cost of teachers' pay) on the same basis as a local government school and, on the other hand, compensation for operating costs is made on the same basis as is done in the local government schools in the region. Then there is another part of the cost to which the schoolmaster pays the additional allowance. Typically, these costs are related to the building. If the municipal school has a separate building, then the private school must rent or build the building. This is the cost of which private schools, as they have said, must use tuition fees, unlike municipal schools. This has been a place of debate. After all, the biggest dispute in Minister Ligi's time was that, if there was an increase in operating costs, whether private education was preferentially funded or equally funded. This has always been at the heart of this debate. Now the question is what are the components that we need to add to private education so that it creates a level playing field, but does not create a priority facility, given that it receives the same basis of education support and operating support. This is why we have been talking about this so-called ceiling, so that taxpayers who support the payment of operating expenditure and education support would not feel touched and again would not have the same argument that private education is like preferential funding. The reason for establishing this ceiling is also that there are clearly world-view views, whose representatives say that private education can be supported, because it offers alternatives, but it must be open to all children, including those whose parents have slightly more mediocre incomes. Are we discriminating against anyone with this? A private schoolteacher has the opportunity to say that he does not want to set this ceiling if there are enough parents who want to pay higher tuition fees. I guess he'll see they can pay for it. We've had many meetings with representatives of private schools. They say that they do not want and do not intend to set this ceiling and want to go on with their tuition rhythm. In this case, they will not be paid the operating cost support component, but they will receive educational support, i.e. teachers' salaries, on an equal footing with others. So the schoolgirl always gets that chance. We also come to the subject that the establishment of a private school takes place on exactly the same basis as, say, the Constitution provides for the right of any private initiative. It's a private initiative. All the legal analyses that have been carried out so far say that we cannot restrict a private initiative aimed at creating an educational institution. This is also the reason why no opportunities have been found for the local government to say that a private school cannot start operating on its territory. The private school may start operations, but the local government wishes that once the private school has started operations on its territory, it would at least be able to say whether it supports the continuation of the school, enlargement, etc. The municipality should at least be able to express its disagreement. Does the procedure of the Riigikogu give rise to any legal idea of restricting private initiative through local government? The Ministry of Education's best legal advisors have not found a way to say that a local authority does not allow a certain private initiative on its territory. This has been the main part of this whole discussion. We can ask the local government for an opinion and we can tell the local government that its opinion is very important. Is it possible to limit private initiative with this opinion? At the moment, the general view is that it is not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U128	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U129	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The condition for applying for an operating grant is that a private school has a valid authorisation for an indefinite period. A fixed-term authorisation shall be issued in general for a maximum period of five years. I wonder what it looks like in practice. Is it a rule that, in principle, all starting private schools will be granted a fixed-term authorisation for a period of five years, after which they will most likely also receive this permanent authorisation? Or are there exceptions, such as those which have been granted an authorisation for three or four years, and then are already granted an open-ended authorisation, i.e. the right to apply for an operating cost grant? What does it look like in practice? The second question is: if we charge the tuition fee by linking it to the national minimum wage rate, how do we consider here the possibility that a parent can always support a private school in other ways, for example by paying a fee or making so-called donations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U130	The Riigikogu has dealt with donation and non-profit organisations operating at the school. The legislator has not seen the necessary or possible need to limit such private initiative and donation, given that there are also a number of Christian schools in private schools where donation is very common at all. If the parent wants to support the school more, he will always have the opportunity. But this has been analysed very accurately by the legislator, because it cannot be an obligation, it cannot be an advantage or a condition for the adoption of children's schools, it cannot be an obligation that is enshrined in the Treaty. So the donation has to be just a donation. I believe that no one in this Chamber would want to limit a parent's desire to support any activity at school with a donation. There's no point in restricting community initiative. It could be about organizing sporting events and whatever. Is that possible? Yeah, it's possible. Is this a general practice? No, it's not. There are very different practices, there are schools where it is practiced, and there are schools where it is not common. The situation is very different. Next, I will talk about an open-ended and fixed-term contract. An application for a contract without a time limit shall normally be submitted at the end of one school level. This time is not usually five years, it is very common to ask for permission at the end of the second school year when the third school year is beginning. The application is usually submitted at the end of the primary school. As I said, in the course of the procedure, we must certainly have a detailed record of our supervision of how quickly it will be possible to apply for this authorisation. Since this bill came into the proceedings of the Riigikogu from the Government of the Republic, a number of private schools have approached us, who have made a request within a much shorter period that they wish to start proceedings. There's a set of rules for that. Such an interest has clearly arisen because no one wants to miss the possibility of 25% increase in operating costs due to the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U131	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U132	Thank you, good manager. Good Mailis! I'm moving on to the subject of donations in another context. You said that the parents of private schools are kindly allowed to make donations on all sorts of occasions to help build or organize events. The question arises as to why the parents of children studying in schools in the state and local government are in a different situation, why their donations are somehow deplorable and have always aroused great resentment. We remember what happened around Tallinn's English College and so on. Donation must not, of course, be compulsory; it must be voluntary. Have you considered that, in schools such as the state or local government, you could legitimise the possibility of parents making donations to the school in a peaceful manner without tricking the NGOs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U133	Thank you. First of all, as far as these legal disputes are concerned, that is precisely why I raised this issue, because it has been discussed several times with regard to municipal schools. According to the Constitution, we must not only have access to basic education for all children, but also free of charge. If such things are restricted in municipal schools, for example, it is said that donation is a prerequisite for entering the school or the amount of the donation is a prerequisite for attending school, it is not permitted under the Constitution. This has been discussed repeatedly in this Chamber and in the Committee on Culture. Is there any way to limit the activities practiced by several NGOs or when parents collect money themselves? This has also been analysed and it has been decided that, in principle, when it comes to a private initiative, it is permissible. However, it is condemned that parents keep a list and tell someone that they have not yet made the donation. Then it is not a donation, it is a compulsory tuition fee that cannot be imposed in municipal school or public school.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U134	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The Commission was told that more than 5 to 7 private schools have recently emerged every year. Where did these schools come from? What type are they, are they Christian or are they ordinary private schools? Don't you feel the danger that, after possible 100% compensation for operating costs, there will be more private schools? Do you favor it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U136	Thank you. Maybe it's appropriate to say a few numbers here. 2010-11. In the academic year, we had 4300 private school students, 7800 of them today and the number of schools has increased from 31 to 54. Most of these schools are located in Harju County, with 27 in Tallinn. 6 schools are located in Tartu. 2017/18. The number of private schools in other counties has increased significantly during the academic year. There are 22 municipalities and 12 counties. There are currently no private schools in Hiiumaa, Jõgeva County or Läänemaa; private schools have emerged elsewhere. Private schools are very diverse, from 1 to 2 pupils' home schools to very large and international schools. There are schools where education has been done for a very long time, since the early 1990s, and, as I said, there are schools that have applied for 2017/18. in the academic year. Tuition fees are also very different, there are schools where it is 14,000 euros, and there are schools where there are no tuition fees at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U137	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U138	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I will read this bill and say that the idea of this bill is to strangle private schools. Your answer just turned out to be that these schools are very diverse and different, of different sizes, that is, they create educational diversity. There's a lot of problems here. We have already talked about what an open-ended and fixed-term licence means. In essence, we understand that during the first years of school activity, the state is shirking the payment of this money, because in the first years, the school does not yet have an open-ended permit. As far as 75% is concerned, parents pay taxes, but we know the difference between whether their children go to public or private schools. The public school guarantees 25% more money for itself, while the public school does not have such an investment obligation as the starting private school. But there are more problems. For example, the problem is that the calculation is based on the situation of November, which means that start-ups and growing schools will be reduced in two months a year. Don't you think, in the light of all this beautiful talk, the plan is actually to strangle the emergence and development of private schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U139	Thank you, good questioner! In principle, it is possible not to adopt this law, but then the support for private schools' operating costs will end in 2019. If, as a good member of your Riigikogu, you think it gives private schools more certainty than what we proposed with the gradual implementation of the ceiling, I am afraid that is not the case. The reason why we want to set the ceiling is that the conclusion of a very long and heated dispute remained that private education is, as a matter of priority, funded. In order to avoid or at least mitigate such discussion, it is again proposed to introduce a gradual ceiling, given that for all private schools which may be over-in-force from 1 January, the existing regime will remain in place. What is already in force under the law will remain in force. We will not make anyone's situation worse, but will give us the opportunity to continue financing beyond 2019. That's exactly what we're suggesting right now. Does the quality requirement of an open-ended permit go beyond what is necessary for private schools? Existing schools that have applied for authorisation without a time limit have received almost all of this, with minor exceptions. I admit that the Ministry of Education is ready to look at why, for example, schools in Waldorf do not usually have time-limited permits and whether we can meet, meet and watch schools that use alternative pedagogy all the time, and whether the requirements have not been too strict. For all the other schools, our analysis shows that it is a question of the principle of whether certain conditions are desired. I am thinking, above all, of the questions of the scene. I am sure that the legislator, too, does not want to withdraw from the requirement that children are still taught by qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U140	Liina Kersna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U141	Thank you. Having analysed the tuition fees for all private schools, I dare say that there are such private schools where the tuition fee includes also interest education, electives and non-electives, a afternoon group, school food, educational resources, etc. There are, however, other private schools who charge extra fees for all these things. Do you also take a closer look at the tuition fee for private schools before you start making decisions, or is it purely on the surface of the amount of tuition fee declared by the private school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U142	Thank you, good questioner! The legislator has made a fairly precise list of the mutual settlement of local governments. It has been said what can and cannot be included in the costs. A very similar proposal has also come up with private schools in order to specify what tuition costs can and cannot be financed, so that the topics listed by you are financed on a common basis. For example, additional catering or certain activities cannot be included in tuition fees; they must be mentioned separately. That's one of the things that there's been contacts about what you should bring out separately. Currently, municipal schools, for example, can charge for a long-day group, it is allowed, but they must set a separate price list, introduce it to their parents and offer them this choice. So the answer to what you're asking is probably yes. We have a proposal to examine first what can be included in the tuition and what may be asked for, and then we will have to specify what can be asked in addition. These clarifications are very necessary if they are not already covered by the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U143	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U144	Thank you. Madam Minister, you were not honest when you said that the dispute has always been about whether or not there is preferential funding. There hasn't been any argument. The subject is complicated. I'm trying to open it in my speech. Of course, there has been preferential funding! But my question is about the municipality's involvement. I didn't understand the answer. You answered Urmas Kruus for a very long time, but he also assures me that you still did not answer him. How could municipalities contribute to this? After all, the change begins with the state going to compete with the municipalities by subsidising paid education. According to the regulations so far, it was the municipality who organised the funding and decided and evaluated the school network. Where is the local government's involvement now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U145	Thank you, good questioner! If we look at what discussions have been about private education, the good questioner knows very well that the inability of the local government to participate in private education has been in these leading topics. When the Riigikogu decided to introduce the operating grant for all schools, including private schools, as a local government obligation, no one asked for the right of local government to talk or whether the local government wanted to allocate money in this form to the operating costs of private schools. It was about a constitutional dispute. The Supreme Court ruled that it is not the responsibility of the local government to support private education in this form. So local government involvement in private education has been one of the most serious disputes. The Supreme Court has now said that the local government is not obliged to support private education, it is the task of the state, which is assigned to local governments, and if the state wants to support private education, it is up to the Riigikogu to decide and in this case it is done with the state's financial allocation to local governments. What have local authorities pointed out? If they organize their school network, but at the same time they cannot regulate the number of schools in their territory and how big they are, the regulation of their own school network will remain incomplete. When a school is closed and the same municipal school renames itself an NGO and continues as a private school in the same school building, the state actually finances the former local government school with taxpayers' money. This is serious. How much does the local government have to talk about? When discussing the current private school law, we have come so far that it is possible to write a letter asking for the opinion of the local government. However, we have not reached such a solution in the Committee on Culture over the years that this opinion is legally binding. The local government says what it thinks of one school or another, but we have not found such a legal way that, for example, the opinion of the city of Tartu about the new NGO would allow the Tartu Council to say that this NGO must not exist in this territory. He has no such decision-making power. This has been the biggest question among the sub-unions whether there could be such a legal form to say whether or not the school could be on the school network. This form has not been found at least in the draft drawn up by the Ministry of Education and Research and discussed by the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U146	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Minister! My personal experience in cooperation with private schools and in shaping the school network has been entirely positive. From time to time, it seems to me that laws are being made in the country because everything in Tallinn is not being dealt with on a human level. But I certainly believe that in a certain discriminatory situation, there must be no new discrimination. I'll think about your answer, too. When it comes to Christian schools, where congregations are actually in the back, for example, tuition fees may be the case that the school itself takes a very small tuition fee, but it is still possible to support and create different solutions through the congregation. Here, the state should act in a very balanced way so that it does not create new inequalities. But the local government should be talking, and we could talk about how this school network will develop there. I think this discussion should be deeper than just a private school versus a public school, it seems to me that it is currently very superficial.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U148	Thank you. I agree, there is no good solution to the local government's involvement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U149	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U150	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! 'The operating cost of obtaining the allowance must be the tuition fee per student for a private school... ' Here are the different rates. Would you mind telling me why such rates have been set? On what basis have these rates developed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U151	Thank you. As regards the gradual introduction of the tuition charge, its aim is to meet the existing schools as much as possible. 35% of the minimum wage is quite sufficient, except for two or three schools, if we exclude international schools. 35% is high enough. This developed during the drafting of the draft at meetings with private schools, which was the optimal solution. By coming down by 5%, it is possible to reduce tuition fees or other alternatives can be discussed, I mean rental premises or other. As regards the third part, which will apply from 2020, the proposal at the time of drafting was to come up with such a system that the legislator would have imposed on the private school what the proportion of students exempt from tuition fees should be there. Private schools agree with the principle that there are children in these schools who do not pay all or part of the tuition fees, but at the meetings they did not want the legislator to report this proportion so accurately. What exactly is the latest regulation, whether there will be just another ceiling in 2020 or whether there will be a compromise proposal that private schools will still exempt a certain percentage of students from tuition fees, it will remain for the Committee on Culture to decide after the first reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U152	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U153	Thank you. I come back to my last question. You say that 35% is affordable for almost all schools. This is the case where they are financed equally with municipal and state schools, but now the same funding is lost. Under the ownership form, less money will be paid to private schools and then 35% will no longer help. I come back to what we said about preferential funding. Public-owned schools are clearly favoured. The whole point of this law, in particular, is that there are no new schools. What was said here was that the municipality would shut down the school and then people would take the place of the school on a private basis and start running school with tax money is, in fact, the whole point. The aim is not to create schools where the school has already been shut down, which the state must maintain with tax money. As a result, regulation has been introduced so that new schools can no longer be made. The old guys can do it somehow, once they're on their feet. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U154	We are probably living in a few different legal worlds, because on the basis of this bill, which I am presenting to you here today, the payment of education support will continue. Education support covers teachers' salaries, textbooks, school meals and further training. It comes with all children and is based on the local government average, i.e. its coefficient. It's guaranteed in private school, public school and municipal school. The next thing these discussions have been about is operating grants. Here again, it is the same thing that the current rate is 75% of the local government average. Perhaps now the private school receives 25% less than the school located next door in the municipality, but it has the right to take tuition fees. Our proposal is to raise this support to 100%, but to say that if we grant 25% more operating support, we want them to comply with the quality rules. The school is authorised for an indefinite period if all the requirements imposed by the state are met and the school is not allowed to raise the tuition fees too high. A certain ceiling has been proposed for this purpose. So we certainly cannot talk about inequality in this sense. We are talking about the possibility for a private school to receive education and operating support on the same basis as others; in addition, municipal schools do not have the right to take tuition fees, but in private schools we promise to take it, but to a certain extent. Is this 'to a certain extent' sufficient to enable the school to create the desired distinction? For example, Tallinn or Tartu School needs to rent surfaces, it is necessary to find a building. It's a little easier in the counties. Sometimes they offer these buildings. These buildings need to be cleaned up, they need to be invested. Is this ceiling sufficient for schools to continue to operate on an equal footing? This has been the basic content of meetings with private schools: to analyse together what is this so-called ceiling, which gives the opportunity to work on the same basis as others. Pre-financing or not? I think you can discuss this more closely with the opposition. This has been a very interesting discussion in previous years. I'm afraid it's gonna be all day before you get to the same end about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U155	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U156	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. They say forecasting is ungrateful work. But the data you have provided here that the number of students in private schools has doubled over the last six years, the number of schools has increased by 70% and they are very different in size, maybe not give a proper overview. Make an estimate of what's going on in the private school market. Perhaps in ten years, a lot of children will be studying in private schools precisely because such fragmentation and niches are becoming increasingly important in this world.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U157	Thank you, good questioner! If we look at other European countries, we can see that in those countries where there is the same opinion on private education as in Estonia, where the community initiative is strongly supported, funding is equal, but in general private initiative in education is not limited, the proportion of people entering private education is considerable. Here you can give examples in both ways. These countries, which have remained at a very modest percentage, are generally restricting the emergence of private schools. In some countries, it is said where a school can and cannot develop. I have no reason to believe that the joy of being born in private schools will be reduced. Private schools are more of a growing trend. The reasons are very different, but what is important is what you said is that parents have a desire to offer different solutions to their children. This interest is growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U158	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U159	Thank you. I am a little surprised by your resolute statement that this law will either be passed or that all private schools will be shut down in 2019. Especially in the light of what you have even admitted, it is not at all certain that the participation fee you have promised will cover the so-called box costs that private schools have. We could still go through these open things first and make a deal with the private school owners, not make resolute statements about how to say that if you don't agree, it's over. In fact, it is through here that strangling private schools is as if it is a deeper goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U160	Thank you. I will try to redefine what we are discussing here. According to the current law, from 2019 onwards, the municipality will decide whether or not it will provide the school with operating expenses, the public obligation to cover 75% of the average cost will be lost in this form. Of course, there will be parliamentary elections in 2019. It is possible that the next Parliament will decide to continue this. However, the aim of our proposed draft is to create certainty for private schools and to say that funding will continue after 2019. Moreover, the proposal had to increase this support from 75% to 100%. There was no point in strangling private schools. The proposal has been to respond to the very significant wish in society that private schools should be of high quality and that the state should have an overview of and control over them. As the local authority does not have such a direct role, the State has to do so and this is accompanied by a licence requirement. If adding 25% to the average of local government is not what a private school wants, then for the next two years it can continue exactly as prescribed by the law in force. If you think this rule of law after 2020 is not suitable for private schools, you will probably have some information of your own. The umbrella organisations of private schools that I have had the honour to meet, both with Christian schools, private general education schools and with other school umbrella organisations, have wanted this stable funding.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U161	Ants Laaneots.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U162	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. I have been through all the private schools in Tartu, there are six of them, and as a result, I have first got the feeling that their study programmes are completely different from each other as well as from the state and municipal schools. This means that children's knowledge after leaving school is uneven or unequal. Secondly, it is essentially business projects that have significantly more money per capita than state and municipal schools with which they compete. The bounty, let's just say, they get money from the state and, apart from state and local government support, they get money from parents. Why do we need schools as businesses, which are largely funded by the taxpayer? However, these schools do not guarantee a uniform level of knowledge for students.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U163	Thank you. Good question. As regards the uniform level of knowledge of students, the national curriculum is compulsory in all private schools. Private schools, as well as municipal schools and state schools, have the opportunity to develop their own characteristics on the basis of their school curricula. That's what makes the school look like and gives it an exciting approach to learning. We have schools that teach local dialects, schools that study the home story in depth, there are schools with the cost of sports, the cost of language, the real cost. These peculiarities come out of the school curriculum. This is how private schools behave. As far as private schools in Tartu are concerned, they have a very different size and historical background. They have their own uniqueness, and parents trust them. This has been the case for decades. Christian schools in Tartu have set an example for many other schools. In response to the claim that these schools are business projects, I say that this is why the draft contains the obligation that all private schools are actually trying to follow, but what is now stated in the bill that all profits are invested back in education and the school budget is transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U164	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U165	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! You have already touched upon this amendment. The Estonian Association of Free Waldorf Schools and Kindergartens also writes about this in the comment table. This is still the same subject: temporary licences and licence requirements. You once said there was a problem with them. Could you please specify the major disadvantages of the Waldorf schools and where they could be helped? Why has the question not been approached in such a way that, if there are really problems with documentation, reasonable deadlines could be given so that they do not lose operating grants?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U166	Thank you. First of all, so far there has been little difference in the education system as to whether the permit is fixed-term or unlimited. A fixed-term licence is a perfectly normal process for a private school which, for example, rents surfaces. Since supervision was quite different from country to country, when the lease contract was fixed-term, the training permit was logically fixed-term because it was not known whether the school would be allowed to continue to use the rental space. That's how simple the reasons could be. It was not dependent on money because it did not affect the school's overall activity, and it was a normal process. The supervisors also preferred to grant fixed-term permits because they could then, after a certain time, go back to that school to see how the school had developed. Since it was not related to money either, it was viewed as a completely ordinary process. Now we come up with a bill where we say that this is the basis for the quality of our schools. The reason is that, as the local authority does not exercise its supervision, the State must exercise its control. It is necessary that the state really say: yes, we believe in the quality of your school, there is a good job being done here. Now we have to look at this picture differently. Firstly, so that there are no special features in the counties that have so far existed. For example, the terms of the lease agreement have not been the only reason for this decision. Waldorf schools have often pointed out that it has also been important to have a very high proportion of young teachers who are still studying. All these things we must make sure that we do not create a situation in the system that we did not want with this draft. The aim of the draft is to give all schools of good quality the opportunity to compete equally. Indeed, the Waldorf schools have pointed out that only Viljandi Waldorf schools have unlimited permission, while others have fixed-term permits. We have come to meet them and said that we will certainly examine why they have unlimited permits and what problems there are. If it really turns out that it is because of the alternative pedagogy that we do not believe in, but they themselves have pointed it out, then the Ministry will bring this matter to the Committee on Culture and make adjustments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U167	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The cost of operating when applying for support is one such requirement, according to the bill, that the indicators of a private school, I mean the financial figures, must all be public, transparent. Has the Ministry also considered the possibility that the figures of all schools could be public, transparent, visible, so that they could be compared and possibly better captured by a true picture?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U169	Thank you for a very good question. The topic of schools' budgets has been discussed some times during previous Riigikogu formations. Then it was a question of whether local councils could be obliged to draw up separate budgets for schools. The aim was exactly the same, that schools, as well as parents whose children go to these schools, want to see how the budget has been drawn up and what the resources are, and that teachers also know how much money is being given for further training and so on. They'll be able to discuss it together. Such transparency is very much desired. So far, it has not been done. There are different interpretations of how to understand the autonomy of a local government. But I believe that this is an issue that the Committee on Culture could come back to. In the case of schools for children with special needs, there has also been a desire to see how many different allocations there are, it should be quite transparent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U170	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U171	Thank you. Boundary and operating grants are not the only grants that schools receive. Let us just recall the debate on the previous draft right here. According to this law, do private schools receive the same benefits as other schools? Is such treatment equal or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U172	Thank you, good questioner! Education support is known to consist of several components. Like I said, there's textbook money, there's school food money, there's training money, there's teachers' payroll. The size of the teacher's payroll shall be obtained by multiplying the number of students available. On the basis of this, teachers' load standards (the school may have more teachers at work if part of the work is less busy) will be developed and the jobs calculated on the basis of teachers' load standards will be multiplied by a coefficient of local government. If there are children with special needs at school in the previous draft, these products, which are either two or four times the number of children, are also allocated to private schools. This bill does not regulate the situation of private schools; it is the draft that we discussed earlier. If a private school specially deals with children with special needs, many of them deal with very heavy children, then we make separate contracts for them. There are separate operating grant coefficients, which are much higher than what we are discussing today, because these are specific agreements. We certainly do not want to worsen the situation in these schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U173	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Before the negotiations begin, we will hear the presentation of the commission. This is done by Toomas Jürgenstein, a member of the Committee on Culture. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U174	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The Committee on Culture discussed the draft under discussion on 9 October 2017. Liina Kersna Laine Randjärv's alternate members were Heidy Purga, Krista Aru, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste, Viktoria Ladynskaja, Yoko Alender and, of course, the director Aadu Must. From the Ministry of Education and Research, Minister Mailis Reps, Adviser to the Head of the School Network Piret Sapp, Adviser to the General Education Department Tiina Kivirand, Lawyer Indrek Kilk and Head of the Education Code Sille Uusna were invited. I admit that during the discussion of this bill in the Committee on Culture, I felt rather foolish. The main reason probably was that all the Members of the Commission had already gone through one fundamental round of these issues, and I did not. Now I am talking about the debate. Minister Mailis Reps gave an overview, just as he did here today. I checked and it became clear that all the questions raised in the Commission were also put in this Chamber today, so the answers to these questions already sounded here. The Committee on Culture decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 18 October 2017. This was so that, at the request of the Riigikogu Board and with the agreement of the committee, the date was changed and the bill reached the hall on 19 October, i.e. today. Similarly, the deadline for submitting amendments, initially on 1 November, shifted to 2 November. It was proposed that the first reading be stopped, and Thomas Jürgenstein, standing here, was appointed rapporteur. All the proposals were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U175	The first question is put by Priit onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U176	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have a question about the fourth point of this bill, which is about the tuition fee. Was there a debate in the Commission that this could be higher than the 20% currently foreseen? Section 2 describes the scheme if it could be at least 30% of the employment contract law... There behind it is this complex description of how much someone and at what level must be released. Couldn't that still be the decision of the schools? Does the legislator have to formulate this will in such a complicated way? Maybe two questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U177	Thank you. First of all, this rate, the fact that it falls from 35% to 5%, and this final rate, which is indeed 20% according to the draft, will come to the debate. That was what the Commission was talking about. I said that all the questions raised in the Commission were also discussed in this Chamber. Indeed, Viktoria of the Ladynskaya Fatherland and Res Publica Association expressed the view in the Commission that it would perhaps be reasonable if this ceiling were not 20% but 25%. So that was what the Commission was talking about. As far as this solution is concerned, in some cases tuition fees may be up to 30% of the minimum rate, but then so many students must be exempt from it, this is the point of discussion. We are probably still discussing this in the Commission as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U178	Thanks to the waitress! There are no more questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U179	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! We have a problem with this bill. We have dealt with this issue of private schools, just as it turned out in this debate, in the past from the position that we support private schools, we support educational diversity, we support the idea that parents should have the greatest possible say, and we support the idea that regardless of the form of ownership the school has, tax money should be spent on all children at the same time, i.e. that both the bounty and operating support must be the same as other schools. We do not dispute that the state is setting certain quality standards. It is understandable and understandable, probably very reasonable. We can argue and discuss the list or content of these quality requirements, but I believe that there is reason to argue less here than on this fundamental issue whether private schools should receive equal money or not. We believe that this is discriminatory behaviour or very unequal treatment if less money is spent on children in private schools than on children in municipal or state secondary schools. What is the issue of substance? What is the origin of all this private school activity? There's two or three big things here. One of the most important is the organisation of the'school network', which is, of course, a disgusting euphemism used to close schools. During the organisation of the school network, schools in smaller and remote areas are first and foremost closed, after which relatively small private schools have emerged in a large number of places where people are active and beginners. When the school is shut down, it has a very simple purpose: to save money. If a private school is being replaced, which the taxpayer finances in exactly the same way as he previously financed the municipal school, then it did not make any sense to shut down, that is, the place of austerity disappeared. School shut down, a private school came in and no savings came in. As a result, we believe that the most critical point of this bill is the requirement for an open-ended licence. What's the result? The result is that start-up schools will have to cope with the first few years without operating grants. There is another very important thing here; it is ideological pressure. The fight between educational uniformity and educational diversity is a very clear ideological and world-viewed fight. Those who want all schools to be the same believe that schools should have some sort of ideology. We are absolutely in the opposite position. We believe that these values, and even the didactic teaching methods that exist in schools, must be guided above all by the wishes of parents, and must not be presented with any national framework. We know what the objection in Estonia is: then we will have some Putin schools here. These things must be settled by the Kapo, the Language Law and other such things, not by operating grants. If the Ministry of Education is able to place schools on the ground by means of licences, it does not extend or extend only for a few years, does not grant this fixed-term permit or withdraws a fixed-term permit and provides a replacement for a permanent period, there is a clear risk that there will be a national ideological pressure on private schools, precisely for which the parents have taken their children out of the national or municipal system. This is a very important and fundamental place. Another financial beet place is that children's heads will be counted over November. This means that in September and October, the growing schools will have to operate with less money. This does not concern those schools where the number of class kits is always the same, and it is actually useful for those schools where the number of class kits or children is constantly decreasing. But as we clearly understand the argument here, private schools are a growing trend and they come in. These are growing schools, and each year usually these schools grow by one degree and can essentially be milked with two months' money. I understand what this bureaucratic argument is: children move a lot at the beginning of the school year. But it should actually be possible to find a solution that does not harm growing private schools. The third thing is that if there is some kind of money distributed by the municipality or the state to their schools, this money must also be distributed equally to private schools. This is again a matter of equal treatment. This is a clear way of blackmailing private schools out of the market. If the municipality raises the salaries of teachers in its schools, pays some kind of grants to schools, it is clear that if it does not pay the same allowances to a private school in its territory, it will, in essence, blackmail it out of the quality market. As far as this ceiling is concerned, 30.35%, I understand this argument and I agree in principle that, in the current situation, this 35% is for very few schools. Most private schools, by the way, I have to make reformists sad or happy here, I don't know what it's right to say, are not rich schools, they're not made for rich people. There are schools in Estonia, but there are very few. Most private schools are schools where they go, either because of local peculiarities or because of some kind of doctrinal peculiarities. These private schools are in a much worse position than municipal or public schools in most terms of capital investment. State secondary schools are built with euro money, most municipal schools are built during Soviet times and repaired there for taxpayers' money, but private schools rent space, take bank loans and build houses, expand all the time. It is quite clear that they have a much greater burden of capital than the public school. Here, it could clearly get in the way of 30 to 35%. I'm not against the principle that there's some kind of sensible ceiling somewhere, but I'm totally against the requirement to guarantee some kind of free space. It would be the same if we went to the barbershop and said that every tenth harvest was free or otherwise... But to set this percentage, you have to be flexible and look to the future. If these bottlenecks are removed, then there are complexities, but these are very important bottlenecks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U180	Jürgen Ligi on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U181	More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U182	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U183	Absurd was what we have just heard here, as should the private sector be guaranteed equal treatment with public authorities in the case of public services. It's absurd! To the national conservationists, I would remind you that when you talk about education in Estonian, consider that private school Kremlin or Nochnoi Dozor can afford a completely Russian-speaking and pro-Russian education, and that is only a matter of time before it is tried. But let's leave these extremes. I wouldn't want to stop at the stupid things that sounded like that. It is a great pity, however, that the Minister has already used the issue several times here. It's one of the special forms of lying. He tells everything at once and makes it look like he knows everything, but he misses the main theme. The problem with this system is that the state, with its own money, with practically full funding, puts paid education (thereby it is possible to raise money from the private sector) in competition with free education, which must be guaranteed by the municipality. In doing so, it weakens the schools of the municipalities and sprays public resources. When, during the discussion of the previous draft, Mailis Reps spoke very vividly about how he was in favour of the municipality bearing responsibility for basic schools, here he does exactly the opposite: he takes the right of the municipalities to participate in his school network and goes to suffocate them with his money. It's a very big problem. We already have an extraordinarily bright system, but unfortunately corruption around private schools, which have been here in the Riigikogu and which have also gone to violations of the Constitution, has caused this confusion. We have reached a difficult compromise, and now, first of all, the party that protects the poor and the average people comes and turns everything backwards. We know there's nothing in the back but the interest of a small group, but there's no one protecting the public interest. What the Soviets say, as if the aim of any policy should be to increase equality, is in a cynical conflict with reality. This draft creates educational stratification, there is no doubt about it. We have a very generous system where education support is the same for everyone, and now real estate support is added. Municipal schools are closing down. Of course, no one can control the initiation of private schools, but that the state will almost fully pay for it and will create additional funding, because the private school can call everything a donation, is actually a shame. More equality. These schools are guaranteed. Municipal schools have no guarantee that they can continue to operate. They have this guarantee that the number of children will decrease in most regions. But now the state automatically gives private schools a financial guarantee. It was about tuition restrictions. This is an additional source of inequality because it is certain that some private schools can now lift the hat and become an elite school. They already exist in some ways. But it is not that they necessarily provide basic education, but that they create an elite society that is still accessible by solvency and that creates new social networks and a different outlook for life. It's the same problem as the Russian schools. Russian education has the same system: social network, closure, finally social exclusion and small choices in life. Here, on the contrary, there is a distinction on the basis of solvency in childhood. Education is the main place where equality talk is justified, where it is really possible to create prerequisites for people not to become unequal without doing anything for themselves, but for other reasons. The story of how private education must be made available for God's sake is not an objective! The objective cannot be that the public service is intended to be a private service. You cannot set such a goal! We can set the objective of diversity and this has been done by paying education support. This has been done by enabling the municipality to support and at the same time to check that the school network is not lost. It is currently not controlled, the school network is currently being lost and the quality of education is being weakened. I do not understand what is being solved here, because access to private education is not the problem facing the country. The task facing the country is to provide free education at the highest possible level and as evenly as possible. Estonia is almost the world champion here; we are also better than Finland in terms of education quality. Better than Finland, imagine, with tests we have passed Finland. Indeed, social determination has been exceptionally low. What problem do we solve when we say that paid education must be made available? I don't understand. The Estonian school does not need this fragmentation of resources. We have been talking about this all along, and no one has been able to argue that it is important to achieve that resources are not used for real estate but for the content of education, and despite all the pains, the school network must be optimised so that access to education is not reduced. We have done this very well. All indicators, both social data and test results, indicate that we have done very well and must continue to fight in this direction. Indicators also show that private education funding has been very good and that these schools have received very strong support from the state. Shamelessness is, of course, the presentation of these international examples, which the Minister has also provided here. He has exactly the same materials that I have. Private education is kept under maximum control in European democracies, whether it is not financed at all, the result of which is elite schools, but their background is rather historical, or the tuition fee is limited, whether it is prohibited or restricted, wages are restricted, and it is monitored jealously so that they are truly equal. Property doesn't really determine anything there. In the Netherlands, these schools are private, but they are only in their management scheme, not in the distribution of resources. I hope there's more people in the bushes than the one-two I've talked to, who dare say they don't support this shit. I hope that the national self-preservation instinct will also work on the IRL and, in fact, on the People's Union. Excuse me, EKRE! I really didn't say it on purpose, I meant the voter niche. Only Christians are not those you support but also poorer people than the average, and they are now suffering.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U184	Mr Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U185	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have a potential bill ahead of us. It includes opportunities, yes, also certain dangers, but as a teacher, I know that most dangerous things can always be turned into a general benefit in some form, all the more so since this is a first reading. I admit that maybe I'm a bit idealistically Tartu-centred. The idealism of Tartu was quite a blow yesterday, but we will recover from it. When I look at the development of private schools in Tartu, I see that they are part of the school network. If they develop and if they develop, it will always take place in cooperation with the city's education department. They add diversity and choices to the educational landscape of Tartu. Riho Raave, Head of the Education Department of Tartu City Government, has told me not once, but I think three or four times that thanks to private schools Tartu has saved the construction costs of one and a half schools. It seems to me that about 12% of middle school students study in private schools in Tartu. Students with special needs are also dealt with there. Generally speaking, the city's educational costs have been saved. Secondly, I still want to emphasise the diversity that we should not really underestimate in terms of optimising the school network. I will give just one example. It was twenty years ago (I did not get over the check), when the missing academic Endel Lippmaa published a very critical opinion on the Waldorf schools. I think it was 1998. He found supporters, and in many circles the Waldorf schools were tagged. I admit I was younger then, and I was convinced that the Waldorf schools were finally hit. But the Waldorf schools already had their own community, and on the basis of the community, the Waldorf schools found the strength to move on calmly. As a relatively elite teacher at Treffner School, I have had to admit that over and over again one of the boys or girls from the Waldorf have knocked on Treffner's door and I remember the names of most of the students from Waldorf. I've had about 3,000 students come through under my hands. I really don't remember all of them, but Waldorf's, I mostly know by face, so there must have been something special about them. That doesn't mean I'm not critical of Waldorf, I have critical thoughts. But the community supporting the school was a very strong force there. Now municipal schools and public schools are also beginning to discover that it is the school community that actually takes a lot of things forward. So this same diversity and the generation of ideas is something I wouldn't underestimate. However, I also certainly recognise that, especially after the administrative reform, it is perfectly understandable for local authorities to say a more important word about the emergence of private schools on their territory. It seems to me that if the attorneys of the Ministry of Education include the brightest heads of other ministries, that is not impossible. There really must be some sort of solution here. The Social Democrats support the completion of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U186	Priit Sibul As a representative of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U187	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On Tuesday in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, when I found out that Jürgen Ligi would be the chairman of the Reform Party Group, I congratulated him. Then he said that he is now not only the chairman of the Reform Party Group, but everyone's. After what he said here to the socialists, to the IRL and to the EKRE, it seems to me that at least one person has believed it: himself. I hope the other hundred don't join him here. But now from private education, too. We in the IRL have always stood for alternatives and for the possibility to choose in the field of education. The fact that there are choices at all makes it possible to make a choice. This alone is the value for which a citizen who values choices and freedoms should stand. It has been said in this remote area that we have not done very well in order to clean up the school network or, in fact, to proportion the number of schools to the decreasing number of children. Of course, all politicians, both in local councils and in Parliament, know how difficult and difficult it is to make a decision to shut down one school and what it entails. We can read equally clearly from § 37 of the Constitution that the state and local government maintain the necessary number of educational institutions. Nowhere has it been said that the necessary amount is what exists now. Consequently, some schools must be closed down and some schools opened because people have moved and schools are not always located where there are families with young children, etc. We all know that pretty well. I am not talking very long and thoroughly, because I have already talked about private education, and my views and those of the IRL are known, so I will say a few comments specifically on this draft. I have already asked the Commission's rapporteur on this, and I very much hope that we will be able to discuss once again what restrictions it is right to impose on private schools here during the parliamentary debate. It seems to me that they themselves are able to respond both to the demands of the market and to the reality of the situation. I therefore have a request to the Committee on Culture as well as to anyone who thinks about it, regarding subsection 1 (4) (2) of the draft. In my opinion, in the context of one law, we should not try so forcefully to prescribe the exact number of children who should be exempted from tuition fees by one percentage or another. I think that private schools have so far done very well and will continue to do so in the future, regardless of what we are putting into law. The second point I want to talk about is that we could freely consider raising this limit up. Being more closely involved with some private schools, I dare say that they take account of the opportunities and the real situation of families. The more free we give, the more reasonable it is in my opinion for the Estonian education system. As I said, this does not mean that the question raised by both the Minister and several MPs about the school network, whether private schools come in or municipal schools become private schools, we do not have to deal with it. Of course we do! But we can't put it all together and then think it's gonna be a good soup. So the IRL supports the draft and also supports that we can better formulate these points. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U188	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U189	Mr President! Madam Secretary! Good people's representatives! The Free Party Group supports the proposed draft law. I would just like to stress one big question that I had. Is our entire school network and education system abandoning the principle of convergence school, going along with the idea of inclusive education, on the one hand, and the renewal of the education system, on the other hand, and supporting the diversity that the time that a new life requires? I am sure, in reply to the question of Priit Sibula, that the Committee on Culture will certainly discuss both the issue of how to continue to organise the school network and the right conditions for obtaining the licence and operating costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-19_U190	Thank you to all speakers. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 520. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 520 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 2 November. We're not working today because of the lack of time in bill 472, but we're doing it next week. Thank you for today's workday. I'll see you Monday! Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
