ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 6th working week Tuesday session of the VI plenary session. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. I don't see that initiative. Please, presence check! There's 72 comms here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U2	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft law amending the law on the granting of international protection to an alien initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs. I would like to ask Jaanus Karilaidi, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to wait for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U3	Manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are at the first reading of the draft law amending the law on granting international protection to an alien. First of all, from the background of this bill. On two occasions, the Ministry of Justice addressed the Committee on Legal Affairs in writing with a request to initiate amendments to the law granting international protection to an alien. On the first occasion, the Minister of Justice asked for the amendments to draft law 385, amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government and the Aliens Act, but on the second occasion, to amend the Penal Code initiated by the Government and related to the amendment of other laws to draft law 328. The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the proposals of the Minister of Justice in spring 2017: 3 April and 11, 16 and 29 May. The Commission considered that the proposed amendment could not complement the drafts already pending. On 16 and 29 May, therefore, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the initiation of proposals by the Minister of Justice as a separate legislative amendment. According to the law on granting international protection to a foreigner, refugee status can be declared null and void if the foreigner is the subject of a conviction in a crime of first instance. Paragraph 50 (2) (2) allows the expulsion of an alien in a situation where his or her life or freedom is threatened by a race, nationality or religion, or membership of a social group, or political belief, if the foreigner is the subject of a conviction in a crime of first instance. Thus, in accordance with the current regulation, the entry into force of a conviction for the revocation of refugee status and the return of an alien is sufficient for a criminal offence involving a term of imprisonment as the most severe punishment for a person. However, in accordance with Article 33 of the Convention on the Status of Refugees, expulsion is possible if an alien has been convicted of a particularly serious crime on the basis of a judgment and is therefore a threat to society. The Convention on the Status of Refugees uses the wording 'particularly serious crime' without specifying which crimes are covered by this definition. Nor is this term related to the seriousness of the crime. In the interpretation of a particularly serious crime, such crimes have been regarded as rape, murder and robbery. According to the Estonian Penal Code, rape does not qualify as a first-degree crime, for example, although it is a particularly serious crime within the meaning of the Convention on the Status of Refugees. Several other serious crimes against individuals, such as physical abuse, crimes against minors, drug crimes, extortion and generally dangerous crimes, are secondary crimes. Thus, the current regulation does not allow for a response to situations where a criminal offence committed by an alien does not qualify as a first degree crime, but is still of a serious nature. The amendments therefore provide for the possibility of repealing refugee status and of extortion and return in situations where an alien has been sentenced to imprisonment for intentional crimes against persons, minors, drug-related or general-risk crimes, extortion or crimes of first instance. The proposals put forward ensure consistency with the aforementioned Directive and the Convention on the Status of Refugees and allow for a response to situations where an alien has committed a particularly serious crime and poses a threat to society. From discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 16 and 29 May. The question arose as to the number of persons holding refugee status and the number of applications for the revocation of that status. There was also a question of what would be added to the adoption of these proposals, this law. The representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs explained that by the end of 2016 329 persons had received international protection in Estonia. There are currently three cases of revocation of refugee status. None of them are directly involved in crimes against national security. When we are talking about repealing refugee status, the majority of the persons involved are the end of the protection requirement on which the application is based. What are the third countries to which they could be sent? A representative of the Ministry of the Interior explained that any safe third country. The list of safe countries of origin established in the European Union applies to all Member States. Estonia has also included Russia in this list, for example, which we consider to be a safe third country to which a person can be expelled. A safe third country can also be Egypt, for example. Rather, the choice depends on the person's family relationship and whether a particular country has any reason to accept him or her. The draft received 7 votes in favour in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Raivo Aeg, Olga Ivanova, Toomas Paur, Hardi Volmer, Liisa Oviir, Jaanus Karilaid and Uno Kaskpeit supported sending this draft to first reading. Urve Tiidus, Valdo Randpere and Hanno Pevkur were opposed. So the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs is to carry out the first reading of the draft and to close it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U4	Peeter Ernits opens the round of questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U5	Good manager! Good waitress! I would like to open up a little bit of the reason why there is no rape in Estonia's legal space, there is no criminality in the Penal Code, there is sexual seduction of a child's age and such things as first-degree crimes. Is this some kind of liberal approach and is it normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U6	Thanks to the questioner! There have certainly been very serious debates on this subject. This draft focuses in particular on the provisions of the International Protection Grant Act, § 49 and 50. The Penal Code can be opened separately if you want to make proposals, argue about crime directories and start redeploying them. If anyone has motive and need, this discussion is entirely possible, but it was not discussed within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U7	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U8	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, could you please briefly state the main arguments that led to some of the Members of the Commission's opposition to the draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U9	The main responses concerned the practical application of the law to find the third country to which the person who has been deprived of refugee status was sent. The practice has not shown that it has been found. The main motive of the draft act is that paragraph 33 of the Geneva Protocol provides an opportunity to better define national legislation on this issue, which is a particularly dangerous crime. We are extending the grounds for the withdrawal of refugee status. But the main objection of critics was that expulsion is relatively difficult in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U10	Thank you, dear waitress. The report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is made by Jaak Madison, Member of this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this item at its meeting on Tuesday 10 October, attended by Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, the speaker here, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt, Peeter Ernits and Tiit Terik and absent Kalle Laane. Liana Roosmaa, Deputy Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Doris Uude, Legal Adviser to the same department, and Advisor to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, were invited. For starters. The initiator's representative presented to the Commission the draft law amending the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and explained that the current regulation does not allow for the withdrawal of refugee status in a situation where a criminal offence committed by a person does not qualify as a first-degree crime, but is still of a particularly serious nature. The draft therefore aims to create an opportunity for Estonian society to withdraw the refugee status of a dangerous alien and to return him or her in a situation where a foreigner who has obtained refugee status has been punished with the imprisonment of a deliberate criminal offence against a person, a minor, a drug-related or a general criminal offence, extortion or a first-degree crime. Liis Piilberg added that punishing an alien with a deliberate criminal offence does not automatically mean allowing refugee status to be revoked or withdrawn or returned, but must be further assessed as to whether an alien can be considered a threat to Estonian society. This is also required by the Convention on the Status of Refugees. According to the current law on granting international protection to aliens, refugee status can be declared null and void if the foreigner is the subject of a conviction in a crime of first instance. His danger to society is not assessed, and it is contrary to the Convention. Mr Pomerants asked whether it could be said that there is no real contradiction between this law and the convention and that, despite the seriousness of the crime, a person should not be expelled because the situation in the country of origin does not allow it. Liana Roosmaa replied that, despite the seriousness of the crime, all refugees are subject to an unacceptable situation of persecution, death penalty or permanent imprisonment in the country of origin. The risk to society is taken into account, but all States that are parties to the Convention must be subject to an expulsion ban on a refugee. Liana Roosmaa gave an example that if a Syrian refugee who has served his sentence for a crime is released from Estonian prison, the Estonian state will not have the opportunity to expel him. Furthermore, it makes no sense to take away his refugee status or residence permit, as he will then become an illegal who is not entitled to public benefits, whose supervision is becoming more difficult and whose reversibility is likely to increase. A person goes to work illegally, gets into shelters for homeless people, so this is certainly not a situation where we are able to control a person's activities in the best possible way. Mr Pomerants said that the regulation would be brought into line with the Convention, but since it would not be possible to return a person to the country of origin, the actual situation would not change. Liana Roosmaa replied that this was the case. Mart Nutt noted that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was appointed as the commission responsible for the draft, in particular because the draft concerns the issue of granting international protection to an alien, but, on the basis of its content, the draft could rather be dealt with by the Committee on Legal Affairs, as it is a question of a catalogue of crimes. Mart Nutt added that according to the Geneva Convention, the country does not grant refugee status to anyone, but is identified in accordance with the criteria set out in the Convention. Abolition of the identified criterion is only possible if the situation in the country of origin changes and the person no longer needs protection. Terminologically, this regulation cannot be built on the principle that we take away refugee status. Once the refugee status has been established, the person is granted a residence permit that can be withdrawn. Mart Nutt also added that Article 33 of the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees provides for non-refoulement, according to which a State Party does not withdraw or return a refugee from its territory in any way to the borders of the territory where its life or freedom is at risk. The Convention quite exhaustively outlines the grounds on which it is possible to refuse to establish refugee status and to grant a residence permit on that basis. For example, if a person has committed a war crime or a crime against humanity. It's a place of consideration for whether or not a person falls under it. Mart Nutt also stressed that, in practice, it would not be possible to comply with laws contrary to the Convention. The Convention must be respected unless it makes sense to denounce it. No one has come up with this idea yet. Marko Pomerants summarised the position previously expressed, according to which it would not be possible to use the wording 'The Police and Border Guard Board may withdraw refugee status' in § 49 (3) of the present draft. Mart Nutt said that the Police and Border Guard Board may or may not identify refugee status. If a person is found not to meet the criteria for refugee status, he or she will not receive protection and the proceedings will be terminated. Perhaps this concerns a situation where a person has committed an act before coming to Estonia. The second situation is when the person is already in Estonia. The Police and Border Guard Board cannot revoke refugee status until the person has committed the crime. If a person has committed a crime, he or she is already in Estonia and has refugee status. Liana Roosmaa added that, in addition to the Convention on the Status of Refugees, the whole issue is also covered by the Qualifications Directive 2011/95, which, through the asylum reform, becomes a directly applicable regulation. This means that the law must in any case be amended within a period of one and a half to two years. Ms Roosmaa added that she would not say that the current regulation would be contrary to the Convention. In national law, Estonia has introduced the unsubstantiated legal term 'particularly serious crime', as laid down in the Convention, instead of 'first degree crime'. The Convention does not prohibit us from presenting ourselves with higher procedural and qualification requirements. Marko Pomerants asked whether the Police and Border Guard Board was currently entitled to withdraw refugee status. Liana Roosmaa replied that it was possible to withdraw refugee status on certain grounds. An example can be a situation where the procedure for the extension of the residence permit reveals circumstances which did not appear in the original procedure. In this case, the first decision is based on incorrect or insufficient information and refugee status can be withdrawn. In practice, the exclusion of protection mostly means that the grounds for granting protection have disappeared, that the person can return to the country of origin or that he has already voluntarily returned. When a person returns to the country for which he or she has requested protection, the grounds for granting protection are no longer relevant. Arto Aas asked how many citizens of the Russian Federation or other countries are expelled from Estonia because of the crime, who are considerably more in Estonia than the Syrians. Liana Roosmaa said she couldn't give me the exact number. There have been problems with the expulsion of persons from the Russian Federation, but this is not massive. In most cases, it is possible to prove on the basis of an identity document that it is Russian citizens, and Russia has an obligation to take them back. The problem is precisely those who do not have an identity document and who are not wanted by Russia. Marko Pomerants said that failures occur primarily when the host country is not willing to receive people. Ms Roosmaa stated that the agreement allows a person to be punished, for example, in Russia or in a third country. Estonia's view is that criminal punishment must be carried out at the required rate and it does not matter whether the punishment is carried out in Russia, Ukraine or somewhere else. Arto Aas also asked the following question: what about the citizens of the European Union? Ms Roosmaa replied that citizens of a Member State of the European Union could also be punished either in the country of nationality or in Estonia. Arto Aas continued with the question of whether persons from Latvia, for example, will be expelled after the penalty has been passed. Liana Roosmaa confirmed that, yes, persons who have been detained are mostly sent out with a compulsory exit letter, accompanied by a refusal of entry. Mr Karilaid added that the Government of the Republic has taken a position in principle to support the draft. The Ministry of the Interior considered it necessary to add that the amendment of the provisions envisaged by the draft may not in practice ensure the return of persons. Jaak Madison asked who had the right to assess the situation in the country of origin and whether the grounds for granting protection were still valid. He gave an example of a situation where a foreigner returns to his country of origin, where we know there is active military activity, and then returns to Estonia. In such a case, would it be possible to re-evaluate the level of risk in certain areas of the country of origin in such a way as to enable the person to return there or to be expelled from the country in the event of a first instance crime? Madison added that there are people in Estonia who have received refugee status from Ukraine, which is a war refugee, although more than half of Ukraine's territory is safe. The author also added that the Convention on the Status of Refugees does not define the concept of a particularly serious crime, and in the Estonian legal system rape is a second-degree criminal offence, a law that only covers a first-degree crime. According to Madison's understanding, the Convention allows for a solution whereby refugee status can be declared null and void as a result of both a first and a second-degree crime. If the Convention so permits, equalisation should also be considered in our national legislation. Mr Pomerants added that equalisation might be possible in the context of refugee mathematics, but not in the sense of Estonian penal policy. Mrs Piilberg said that the regulation in force only covers crimes of the first degree and, for example, rape, which is by its very nature a particularly serious crime, is excluded. Therefore, deliberate crimes against individuals, minors, drug-related or general-risk crimes were included in the draft under the Penal Code. As an additional condition, the commission of a criminal offence must be committed intentionally and punishable by imprisonment. The draft thus extends the concept of a particularly serious crime, as is the case with the Convention. Mr Pomerants asked if rape falls under a deliberate personal crime, and Mrs Piilberg confirmed that it is. Ms Roosmaa also explained that there is no definition of a serious and particularly serious crime in national law. Thus, the use of the concepts of first and second degree crime is easier and easier to understand. It is possible to extend the definition of a particularly serious criminal offence within a country in such a way that it also covers the bases set out in the Convention. Liana Roosmaa added that the voluntary return of a person enjoying refugee status to the country of origin (e.g. leave) proves that she does not need international protection in such cases. The refugee status shall also be terminated if the person requests the restoration of his or her previously lost citizenship. If the country of origin agrees to issue it with documents, it is therefore no longer necessary to protect against that country. Liana Roosmaa stated that people arriving from Ukraine during the crisis did not receive refugee status, but subsidiary protection status, which was granted on a slightly different basis, including a one-year residence permit. These people will be able to return to Ukraine, but not to the areas from which they have come and for which they have asked for protection. Liana Roosmaa added that a common list of safe countries of origin exists at EU level and that safe national regions can also be classified there. For example, in the case of Ukraine, most of the country is considered safe, with the exception of areas where active warfare takes place. The return of a person shall also be subject to judicial review. If a person can prove before a court that expulsion poses a threat to his life and health, the judgments of the Court of Justice shall indicate that the person cannot be expelled. Jaak Madison asked whether countries or regions must be recognised as safe at European Union level or whether Estonia can assess it independently. Liana Roosmaa replied that Estonia is bound by a common European Union list of safe countries of origin. If we can prove otherwise in the course of the procedure, it is possible, but it has not actually happened yet. Marko Pomerants asked whether the list of safe countries of origin was adequate or whether the European Union defined the security of countries more rigorously in order to reduce its burden of granting refugee status to foreigners. Liana Roosmaa replied that discussions had been held on whether some areas in Syria were secure enough to allow people to be sent back there. National security should probably be assessed more frequently than is currently the case. The relocation and resettlement process is currently taking place on the basis of a quarterly evaluation by the European Asylum Support Office. In general, the European Union is regulating this issue considerably more severely than we thought at first. Jüri Adams said that historical experience may be one of the reasons why foreigners are still feared in Estonia. In the case of the movement of the masses, there are a large number of people, with criminal tendencies or who have already committed criminal offences, who are fleeing justice in their home country. This is probably also the case for Syria. Adams felt that Estonia should also be prepared for the mass arrival of refugees, but the legal instruments of the European Union rather hinder our readiness. Jüri Adams added that expulsion is not a practical instrument and does not allow for the ex post resolution of situations that have already arisen. The Estonian state should have the opportunity not to receive people who have legitimate doubts and to say that they are not wanted here. Adams said that the issues raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs were correct, but he did not see the possibility that these instruments would provide a viable solution to the problem. Mr Pomerants said that the draft would allow national law to be brought into line with the Convention and that it would become clear as time went by whether we would be able to expel a criminal. Procedural decisions. Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda (consensually). It was also proposed to close the first reading (consensually). The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here (consensually). It was also proposed to set the deadline for amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 10 working days, i.e. 7 November. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U12	Thank you for your thorough review. It looked like you were at the meeting you were talking about. Perhaps part of that is why Jürgen Ligi also has a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U13	Very sharp, Mr. Vice President! I have really wanted to ask you before where this custom has come from to read all the questions and answers by name, even quoting myself, etc. This, in my opinion, does not give any substance to the debate or generalisation. Is it in the Rules of Procedure, or is it some kind of new custom? This is not even a specific question for Jaak Madison. I'm just saying from experience that it doesn't add any content to the debate and the generalisation gets confused.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U14	Thank you, good questioner!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U15	The body language showed that Jürgen Ligi had a procedural question. The only limiting factor is 20 minutes for the presentation. It will be used by the waitress as she sees fit. However, this does not mean that the entire Chamber of Riigikogu agrees with this approach, and therefore critical remarks are welcome. I think Jaak Madison will agree. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U16	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Both in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, there was a consensus that the grounds for the withdrawal of refugee status should be extended, but in both committees, the debate ran into a deadlock on one of the issues of how to find the third country to which the refugee from whom this status has been withdrawn is to be sent? Do you see a solution here before the second reading? Could the situation change in the future? Today, statistics on this matter are completely zero: no such peaceful state has been found. Do you see a more positive perspective here in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U17	Thank you, good questioner! In one of her replies, Mrs Roosmaa did not deny the possibility that a Member State of the European Union could also independently assess the security of certain third countries, including by region. I personally think that, for a second reading, the explanatory memorandum could specify what to do in cases where we know that it is possible to find areas where there is no military activity or there is no threat to the life of a person with refugee status or to its persecution, i.e. how this opportunity could be used more, to put it into practice. As you can see, there have not yet been any precedents in the Estonian judicial system that we are sending a person back to a country where there is activity in a region that has given us refugee status. But it could be, I think, one solution, and that is why I also gave an example of Ukraine at the committee meeting. Once again, Mrs Roosmaa's reply: these persons received not refugee status but temporary protection. Of course, it can also be assessed in the opposite direction that we must not go against the Convention. That would be very awful and horrible. But, for example, there are wars in the Afghan country, but there are regions that are peaceful. So I think, to some extent, this idea still has a future. And I will also answer briefly and quickly Mr Ligi's question, which was absolutely correct. My subjective assessment is that it is probably a protocol style, a very detailed reading of questions and answers, that then there will be an accurate overview of the Commission's sitting. However, this does not preclude a meaningful discussion or discussion: the time for the presentation is limited to 20 minutes, but the question-answers round is not limited to 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U18	Thank you, dear waitress. There's also a way to negotiate. And since this is a first reading, I will open the negotiations to the representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 472. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting the 472 amendments proposed by the Commission, i.e. 7 November at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U19	Second item: Third reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I will open negotiations to the political groups if you wish. That's not what you want. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote on the draft. I am voting on the draft law amending the Fisheries Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 491. Please take a stand and vote. 71 votes in favour and 5 against, with no abstentions. Draft 491 Act amending the Fisheries Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U20	The third item is the first reading of the statement by the members of the Riigikogu, Eerik-Niiles Krossi, Andres Herkel, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Artur Talvik, Lauri Luige, Maris Lauri, Ain Lutsep, Kristen Michali, Ants Laaneots, Madis Milling, Kalle Laaneti, Urmas Kruuse, Laine Randjärve, Remo Holsmer, Heidy Purga, Andres Ammase, Krista Aru, Küllikki Kübarsse, Monika Haukanõmme, Jaak Madison, Igor Gräzini, Valdo Randpere, Yoko Alenderi, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerdi and Jüri Jaanson on the Riigikogu statement on the 'Iraagi Kurdistan Independence referendum' in draft 516. Please waitress Eerik-Niles Krossi, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U21	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We will have a vote today on the draft statement by the Riigikogu, which I hope will be welcomed by the majority in this Chamber. In a small way, it is a historic bill in many ways. First of all, we recall the historical and, at least, decisive role of Estonia in the history of the Kurdish people. President Lennart Meri once said of the Kurds: 'General Laidoner is a bit guilty of the back of Moscow that was boiled together when he went in a beautiful touristy way, looked, but did not win. The Kurds have proven that they are willing to fight for their country. " At the same time, this statement is also our assurance that the oppressed nations, respect for their rights and understanding of their aspirations, are not egoistically forgotten together with the restoration of our own country's independence. In this sense, such statements are always important to the publisher himself, in this case for us. So we are thus confirming some of the basic principles that are important to Estonia to this day: they are legal continuity, the territorial integrity of states and the right of the peoples to self-determination. People's right to self-determination has been discussed in recent weeks in relation to some other people. However, our statement relates only to the Kurdish minority in Iraq, not to any other people. On the other hand, we come up with this to some extent from the comfort zone in which the Republic of Estonia has placed itself, speaking very unambiguously only about the constitutions of the states and rejecting the right to self-determination. This is not quite appropriate for a country like Estonia, at least according to the authors of this draft. I'd like to stop quoting Lennart Meri again. In recent times, there has been a rhetorical question in both Catalonia and other such cases that does not know what the sea would have said about it. We should do as the sea suggested. There's really no secret about it. The sea has repeatedly expressed its views on such matters. In 1995, he was asked, for example, if he felt that the West was sick of the further break-up of the great powers in the world. Is history finished in this sense? Who managed to fight for independence in the middle of the bubble, that was the one who failed, that would wipe his mouth clean? This is what the sea said, and I quote him briefly: 'I only know that all countries have hated everything that is cumbersome at all times and tried to delay troublesome things. There are, of course, certain contradictions in what international organisations have declared and how countries are actually acting. Take, for example, the right of the nations to self-determination. There is a contradiction between real policy and principles. It is unthinkable for countries to come together and say that today's right to self-determination does not apply. They won't. But they'd be happier if unexpected problems didn't arise before them. But each country should know better than a person that postponing is not a matter of undoing the problem, but also of delaying the problems, the payment of bank interest. This price may prove to be much worse the day after tomorrow. Experience shows that this is not the best policy. ' Deferral the problem of the Kurdish people's status will, of course, not solve the problem, nor will it be the best policy. It is equally clear that we in this Chamber will not solve this problem. But then at least let's do what we should have done 90 years ago. We confirm that we understand the Kurds' aspirations and contribute to ensuring that this time they do not need to fight for independence with weapons and that they can negotiate with Baghdad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U22	You have questions too. I would remind you that the procedure for processing the draft statement of the Riigikogu is such that every member of the Riigikogu has the right to ask a question to both rapporteurs. The first of these will be presented by Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I, too, respect the self-determination of the nations, as we all do. But my question is a little bit broader. You yourself touched that facet in your report. Kurds as a nation do not live only in Kurdistan, Iraq. Did the Commission talk about what position should be taken against the Turkish Kurds, and how can Turkey react? And the second question I have asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this very Chamber. As representative of the initiators of the statement, tell me whether the question of Catalonia and the right to self-determination of the Catalans have been mentioned in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I mean, of course, developments in Catalonia. In either country, neither in Iraq nor in Spain, I am aware of the constitutional nature of such a referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U24	I stress that today's statement concerns only the autonomous region of Kurdistan, Iraq, which has already been defined as such. Of course, the Commission also discussed possible results and what the countries in the region think of this statement. Initiators believe that the people concerned themselves determine themselves; the idea is already in that term itself. Everyone else may think something, but it does not deprive the individual people of that right. In fact, Turkey and Iraq, Kurdistan, have been working very well for the last ten years; they even have a friendship agreement. Of course, both Iran and Turkey and all other countries are afraid of the domino effects and of all the other things that may happen. But that doesn't change the situation. When the Kurdish people want to become independent, they must first decide for themselves. We may think so or so here, but it doesn't take away their right. So far, Turkey's reaction has been quite mild. After all, it was predicted that Turkey would attack militarily as soon as the Iraqi Kurds did something decisive. None of this has happened. Currently, the strongest response has been from Baghdad, which under the leadership of Iran has taken troops from Kurd to Iraq's control line, if you could say so, under Kirkuk. They've had some combat contacts, but right now the world is kind of on standby. Quite a lot of it says that the US has not taken the view that it supports Iraq's territorial integrity unconditionally. He says he doesn't interfere or choose a side. Maybe he'll give you a chance to negotiate. He has not taken the side of the capital, which is already quite remarkable. As far as Catalans are concerned, each such case is unique and I do not recommend that these parallels be brought very much. We certainly do not want to say anything about the Catalans by default today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U25	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U26	Thank you. Dear waitress, A few words about perhaps political culture in the sense that I would like to be convinced that the people who make such important statements are familiar with the political life in the area they want to say something about. Would you name three parties to protect the interests of the people of Kurdistan, Iran? Do you know the leaders of these parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U27	Iran in Kurdistan?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U28	Please name the three parties and their leaders from Kurdistan in Iraq.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U29	I understand this is a small test. In fact, there are two serious political parties there, which are the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the PUK, or the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, I am currently translating like this. The Kurdish Democratic Party has assumed the role of political leader of this Kurdish region. There was such a default division of work. The PUK has rather pursued a policy of communication with Baghdad, and according to the Iraqi Constitution, the Kurds have held the Iraqi Head of State. This is traditionally the case for the last five years, and it is not a little inappropriate to talk about traditions as a representative of the PUK. The former Iraqi President Jalal Talabani, who died last night, was the president of the same PUK for a long time. If we are talking at all about parties in Kurdistan in Iraq, this can be done with little reservations. There is a great many such shades of sheikism and tribalism in this region, so it is very easy for Europeans to say that there are no political parties there. But if we compare the political leadership and tribal relations of Iraq with what is there in the surrounding countries, even in Arabic Iraq, they are still much closer to us. They are much more secular than the Arab Muslims in the area. Their identity is based on nationality rather than religion. There is another third party, a new party, whose leader has in the meantime been disbanded as Speaker of the Iraqi regional parliament. I can't remember the initial combination of the abbreviations for that name right now. But let's say that all three political parties managed so much before the independence referendum that they sat down and agreed that they would all support it. Perhaps it is an inappropriate parallel, but the situation there is a little like the one we had in our time when the People's Front and the Congress of Estonia were operating.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U30	Mart Nutt.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm not going to take the exam. I'm gonna ask you about a subject we're probably both familiar with. In fact, Sèvres' peace. The Sèvres Peace Treaty in 1920 set new borders for Turkey. They didn't stand, Lausanne's peace treaty changed them. As far as Kurdistan's status is concerned, however, the same Sèvres peace provided him with autonomy, indeed, no more than autonomy at first, but only for Turkey's Kurdistan territory, not for Kurdish territory at large. This means that Iraq's Kurdistan was not really concerned. On the referendum so much that the referendum itself was not foreseen in Sèvres' peace, it was simply an opportunity to carry out the self-determination of Turkey Kurdistan. I therefore ask: is this mention of Sèvres peace with regard to Kurdistan in Iraq even appropriate? Why is it included in the statement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U32	Thank you. I'm aware of that concern. I have heard it from some officials in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but especially from citizens in contact with Turkey. It is true that the Sèvres agreement provided for the possibility of organising a referendum within a year. But it's all logistics. I would bring such a parallel as the Tartu Peace Treaty, which has suffered so much for all of us to know. Much of the terms and provisions of the Tartu Peace Treaty do not apply either. Why is the Sèvres Treaty important today? Because it recognised or recognised internationally the right of the Kurdish people to self-determination. Thanks to this treaty, in terms of international law, this demos, the people who have the right to self-determination. When they realise it, within a year or ever later, it is not important in the current context. Indeed, the original text of this statement was in some respects a little misguided, as it stressed the holding of a referendum. We changed it after negotiating with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so we are now naming the Sèvres agreement because it gave the Kurds the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U33	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U34	Thank you. Good colleague! Since you came to this hall with such an important question, I believe you know exactly what is going on in the country of Iraq. In this context, I have a question for you: what position does the Iraqi Government hold in the process of conducting the independence referendum?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U35	Thank you. I do not dare to confirm that I know exactly what is happening in the country of Iraq. It often seems that different parts of the country do not know what is happening in other parts of the country. Baghdad has reacted fiercely enough, or, if not fiercely, just negatively to the holding of this referendum. However, they have not directly challenged the Kurds' right to hold a referendum. Their main concern is rather the disputed territories between the Kurdish area and the Arab Iraqi area. Unfortunately, the Central Government of Iraq, together with the assistance of Iranian special forces, has withdrawn a large proportion of the areas occupied by Kurdish Peshmerga units in the course of operations against ISIS since 2014. For the last 15 years, the city of Kirkuk has been the cause of the greatest controversy. The Iraqi Constitution, which was signed in 2004, provided for another referendum on this issue. This referendum has not taken place and Kirkuk's status is legally open. Currently, Kirkuk is de facto once again under the control of the government forces. What's gonna happen in there? They're standing behind the control line, no battles, but the threat of war is great. In fact, with this statement, we want to call on both sides to negotiate in order to resolve the situation on this path. Otherwise, there is a risk that our soldiers will also face a new conflict. There are signs in the air that a ten-year war could break out there. That would be very bad for us, for the whole region and, of course, for the Kurds.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U36	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Mr Andres Herkel, Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft statement initiated by 27 members of the Riigikogu, which we are speaking about, was sent to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the deadline for amendments was set by the Riigikogu Board on 5 October at 5.15 p.m. in accordance with the rules governing the draft application. No proposals were received within the deadline for submitting amendments. The Committee on Foreign Affairs started discussing the draft statement at its meeting on 16 October. The discussion was also attended by the 1st Bureau of the Political Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the Director of the Office for Security Policy and Transatlantic Relations, Miko Haljas. The Commission has reviewed the linguistic and regulatory improvements made by the language editor. Eerik-Niles Kross presented his proposals to amend the text of the draft statement. One of the proposals came from a representative of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which could clearly be finalised as a Commission proposal. It had to be taken into account that the draft statement was submitted at a time when the referendum process was still under way, so it was simply necessary to change some time definition. However, some drafting changes are more important. Attempts to determine the people's self-determination, we called the initiator, Mr Kross, legitimate and emphasised in the order of the fifth point that the status issue could be resolved by negotiation. The most important issue in the Committee on Foreign Affairs was what Mr Nutt asked the main rapporteur, that is, the paragraph of the statement concerning the Sèvres Peace Treaty. This issue was raised by the chairman of the committee, Marko Mihkelson, pointing out that the provisions of the Sèvres Treaty were subsequently amended by the Lausanne Treaty. Mr Haljas pointed out that this agreement did not, in itself, provide for the obligation to hold a referendum, but provided an opportunity to do so within a year. As there was no referendum during the year, he felt that this point was no longer important. Mr Kross, on the other hand, gave him the opportunity to say that this point in the draft text was nevertheless important. But he was willing to change the wording. That is how we have come to changing the wording of this point, and this is how it goes: 'In 1920 the parties to World War I signed the Sèvres Treaty, which recognised the right of the Kurdish people to a referendum on self-determination. ' It's so-called historical proved. The question raised by Mr Nut, to what extent this applies to Kurdistan in Iraq, may be justified, but there is a certain historical, very important problem with the rights of the Kurdish people. We have reached an agreement on this. I didn't mention there was actually another meeting. On 17 October, we agreed in the Commission for the second time on the draft statement on its wording. The procedural decisions were as follows: to propose to the Bureau that the draft statement be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session of the Riigikogu, to put it to a final vote and to adopt it as a statement. It was also decided that the speaker would present a report on behalf of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U38	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U39	Thank you. I have one question to ask Mr Herkel about the fact that we rarely accept such foreign policy statements in the Riigikogu. I imagine that, therefore, it is justified to ask why it is important to approve such a statement on Kurdistan here and right now, on 24 October 2017. What does it add to Estonia's foreign policy, or can it take anything away from our foreign policy platform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U40	Thank you. The Commission did not take the view that this could take anything off our foreign policy platform. Otherwise, the proposal of the committee would probably be different for the Riigikogu. The Commission took the view that this statement should be adopted. However, as regards why today and why it is this subject, yes, the Riigikogu does not make statements on foreign policy very often and maybe some issues have been overlooked. But the Riigikogu can act according to the rules of procedure. There was a draft statement on this subject, there was an initiative on it, and Mr Kross informed the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as I recall, of this intention even before the draft statement was handed over. So the Committee on Foreign Affairs has acted in accordance with all the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U41	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U42	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague waitress! Since you've signed this application, I'm gonna ask you a little bit more. The first point of this statement says that we will respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Iraq, as long as its preservation does not lead to the violent repression of the human and political rights of the Kurdish minority in Iraq. My question is in two parts. First of all, what does that mean by you as signatories? What is the limit of repression? Secondly, when compared to Catalonia, have the actions brought about by the referendum in Catalonia been a violent violation of rights? A Spanish citizen spoke about this when he sent 'Clean Mouth', and it was certainly a matter of suppressing the will of many people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U43	Thank you. This certainly goes beyond the Commission's debate, but I will try to answer. I have pointed out that violence was undoubtedly used in Catalonia during the referendum and the Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have been much more principled in its statement. The statement made that day was certainly unsuccessful, because violence was not condemned in half a word. In this sense, your question is justified. As far as this text is concerned, we all know that these two principles of international law, the principle of territorial integrity, on the one hand, and the right to self-determination of peoples, on the other hand, are quite contradictory. It's an eternal dispute. At the same time, there are very different "gradations" in self-determination. Self-determination in itself does not necessarily mean statehood; in certain cases it may mean legitimate and functional autonomy. In this sense, it makes perfect sense to mention them together. However, you asked about respect for territorial integrity, 'as long as its preservation does not lead to the violent repression of the human and political rights of the Kurdish minority in Iraq'. Yes, human rights are something in which the international community and international organisations react. States cannot have the right to apply any violence against peoples seeking self-determination. Hence this wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U44	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Kurds are a very large nation and those Kurds who live mainly in Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and Turkey are united by language, culture and other ethnic peculiarities. Kurds have quite large communities, but in all countries of the Middle East and North Africa, there are quite a few in Europe as well. Why was this statement adopted as if the Kurds only wanted independence in Iraq? In fact, the Kurds would like independence in at least four countries: Turkey, Iraq, Iran and Afghanistan. How can one nation be separated from one part and only talk about that part?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U46	Thank you, Honourable Asker. This question is certainly justified. The Kurdish people are, if not the greatest, if I do not know the facts at present, then undoubtedly one of the largest nationless nations, and indeed, their division between the territories of different countries is a historic tragedy. However, as regards the way in which the Commission dealt with this statement, it could still deal with it on the basis of the title given by the drafters. We had to build on the referendum on the independence of Kurdish Iran in Iraq. The aim is to stress to the parties that the whole process must not become violent, out of control. The Commission did not propose to extend the application to other countries where Kurds also live.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U47	Valeri Korb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U48	Thank you. Dear colleague, do you have any information that other parliaments are also discussing this issue, or are we alone again on this landscape?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U49	I don't have that information. I do have a page here that shows the attitude of other countries to this issue. This attitude has largely been expressed by the countries of the Middle East, including some European countries. Israel, who, according to the Prime Minister, unambiguously supports the legitimate aspirations of the Kurdish people to achieve their statehood, stands out in this attitude. Our statement doesn't go that far. However, as far as Parliament's statements are concerned, I must admit that I do not have this information. It makes perfect sense, however, that this issue may arise not only in the various national parliaments but also in parliamentary assemblies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U50	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you. I am opening negotiations for representatives of the political groups and committees. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Estonian Centre Party consulted and decided that we will each make our own decision on this issue. This means that we will leave the vote free. However, I came here to explain the problems that everyone needs to think about in order to decide whether or not to support this statement. Let's start by naming some places on the map and some people. First of all, the Catalans in Spain, right, we're talking about these too. In the near future, we will probably have to talk about Basques in Spain and France. Quite recently, the Scots were in Britain. There are many countries where such problems exist, where one nation or another wants independence. If you open Google, it will name 55 such places in Europe alone. Region Veneto in Italy, russins in western Ukraine, such places are immense. This is where the question of responsibility arises. Are we the mechanism that starts, albeit quietly and modestly, a process that can end not only with the collapse of Europe and the European Union, but with the collapse of the whole world? Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan and Turkey. In Turkey, the war with the Kurds has been going on for decades. There are an enormous number of people killed and wounded, civilians as well as soldiers and police officers. If we are talking about Iraq, it is a country that has not been able to calculate the deaths in the last 15 years. International humanitarian organisations operating there have been estimated to provide between 800000 and 130,000 deaths in the last 15 years. Is this an area where a referendum can be conducted peacefully? Iran, well, there are more religious reasons at stake. I would like to see someone in Iran deal with a referendum. And there's Afghanistan. How can one people decide that we are going to hold a referendum in this country, that we are not going to do so in this country? Our knowledge of this region is limited. We often know little about even the countries of Europe and the problems that govern them. But still, we're trying to launch some kind of process in the Middle East, where the situation is so complicated, where everyone's shooting at someone. To be willing, I remember a fun story as well as a sad one, some in this hall have already heard it. It's a story about three fun friends. The fox, the wolf and the bear are walking in the woods and discovering a deer that has fallen into a hole and can't get out. They're going to visit him there, and now they can't get out of the hole either. Then they tell the moose, "Hey, buddy, we're gonna eat you." We're all gonna die anyway, but you're gonna eat food that's not here, but we're gonna eat meat. The moose responds... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U52	That's an interesting story, please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U53	The moose says, tears in the eye: "Friends, friends, I will give my life for you at any time, but, you know, before you read what's written on my ass. Once drunk, I fell asleep in the woods, and the young deer tattooed me there. Now, if the moose ladies see me, they'll read it, smiling and running. I'd like to know what's on my ass. The wolf and the bear are going to count. The moose gave them such a blow with their back legs that the wolf immediately died, but the bear lived a little longer. I mean, he's a little prismier and he's stronger. But before he died, he whispered, "Why the hell did I go to read? I can't read! ' Ladies and gentlemen, We have often, in my opinion, taken the wrong decisions in the face of very vital problems for us. Perhaps someone in this hall will remember the Nord Stream debate. We were sure then in this Chamber that Sweden and Finland would refuse to do so and Nord Stream would not work out. We lost several thousand jobs at the time and several hundred million euros each year. I remember that sentence: 'We don't need Russian transit. ' I also remember the squealing when sanctions against Russia were approved. And exactly three months later we talked to the dairy farmers' association, which announced that one third of Estonian milk went directly to Russia, the second third remained in Estonia, we took it here, and the third third went to Russia again through Latvia. Our milk producers were hit by a huge crisis. All such political statements, all that pertains to life anywhere else in the world, it is not our world. If you don't live there, you don't know what's going on. These statements could be a little more critical. The first fallen domino rock is likely to be the beginning of a global process. You never know who's gonna set that bomb off. Think about it! Is it worth climbing to a place where we probably don't understand what's going on? Our idea of Iraq is formed here in Europe, and that is absolutely wrong. It's another world, it's another way of life, it's another way of thinking! For God's sake, they shouldn't get involved in our lives! Certain things need to be left to those who really understand them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U54	On behalf of the Group of the Mart Nutt Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft statement draws attention to very important facts which cannot be argued against. I'm afraid that's the case. In this sense, I believe that these are problems that must be tackled primarily by Iraq itself, primarily by the Kurds around the world, but also by the international public. At the same time, there are questions in this draft statement that we should probably also discuss more extensively in Parliament and in Estonia in order to decide how to respond to one or the other question. The statement already contained a reference to Sèvres' peace. Indeed, I understand the reason given by the initiators that Sèvres' peace was perhaps the first international act to refer to the rights of the Kurdish people, but the fact is that the reference made in the Sèvres Peace Treaty did not concern Kurdistan in Iraq. Today, however, it is precisely in Kurdistan, Iraq. The second question is how the Riigikogu should take positions on foreign policy issues. Mr Mikko asked this question earlier. I don't think there can be any rules about that. Attempts must be made to feel in which case the participation of the Riigikogu is necessary and in which case decisions should be made by other branches of power, such as the Government of the Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is an issue that I think we should have a more in-depth debate. Estonia has so far been based, and I hope that the principle of consensual foreign policy will continue to be followed. This is the case in all civilised democratic countries. If there are several foreign policies in the country, the country cannot represent itself effectively or defend itself internationally. I think this is a value that Estonia should continue to hold on to. At present, this means that there must be no division between the coalition of government and the opposition in foreign policy relations, foreign policy activities. We should be united on this issue. It also automatically refers to the fact that it is certainly not right to solve them through foreign policy, whether domestic policy issues are whatever. I hope that we will stick to our practices in this regard. There is one thing that I do not think is clear to all of us: how much can we, with this statement, contribute to resolving the problem of Kurdistan in Iraq and whether we can at all contribute to it. I don't have an answer either. We may not be able to contribute at all, possibly to keep the subject up. There is no answer in any case. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance discussed this issue and concluded, in these circumstances, that we, as a group, are not taking part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U56	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Three proposals have been put forward to amend the draft application 516. Let's go through them together. They are all made and taken into account by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The first, second and third amendments. The amendments to draft statement 516 have been examined. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. That's what we're gonna do in a minute. As President, I have to say that I believe that one round will be completed here. I was reminded that our former colleague, General Johan Laidoner, from far-off years ago, was one of the high state representatives who, because of his office, dealt with Iraqi issues, border disputes and the definition of the border there. That is why it is not quite a coincidence that today's statement has been signed by two generals who represent their political party and political group in the current Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote a draft statement of 516. Before that, we call the Chamber also those colleagues who are not here yet. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the statement by Riigikogu members Eerik-Niles Kross, Andres Herkel, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Artur Talvik, Lauri Luige, Maris Lauri, Ain Lutsep, Kristen Michali, Ants Laaneots, Madis Milling, Kalle Laaneti, Urmas Kruuse, Laine Randjärve, Remo Holsmer, Heidy Purga, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Külmiki Kübarsepper, Monika Haukanõmme, Jaak Madison, Igor Gräzini, Valdo Randpere, Yoko Alender, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerdi and Jüri Jaanson on the "Prime of the Kurdistan Independence referendum" in draft 516. Please take a stand and vote. 43 people voted in favour of the statement, no one opposed, with 3 abstentions. In the case of the Riigikogu's applications by Eerik-Niles Kross, Andres Herkel, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Artur Talvik, Lauri Luige, Maris Lauri, Ain Lutsep, Kristen Michali, Ants Laaneots, Madis Milling, Kalle Laaneti, Urmas Kruuse, Laine Randjärve, Remo Holsmer, Heidy Purga, Andres Ammas, Krista Aru, Küllikki Kübarsse, Monika Haukanõmme, Jaak Madison, Igor Gräzini, Valdo Randpere, Yoko Alenderi, Meelis Mälberg, Aivar Sõerdi and Jüri Jaanson, draft 516 has been accepted as a statement.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U57	Fourth item: First reading of the Civil Status Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws Act 511. I would like to present the speech chair first to Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U58	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and related other laws is to amend four laws in total. I'll go to those nuances. The aim of the draft is, in particular, to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and to make national data collection more efficient by extending the use of e-services in family and population operations. Firstly, in the Civil Status Act, we propose the following changes: First of all, the extension of the possibilities of electronic registration of birth. According to the current law, only married parents can register the birth of a child by digital signature. According to the new rulebook, this option exists for most parents, with the exception of legal exceptions, such as minor parents and disabled parents. Statistics show that over half of all births have been registered by common-law parents and single mothers in recent years, and this also leads to the need to make regulation more favourable and easier for them. The circle of users of electronic services is expected to double. The draft amends the regulation on the registration of births so that a single parent or parents who are not married to each other can submit the application for registration of the birth, the application for acceptance of paternity and the consent for acceptance of paternity in a secure online environment. Secondly, the procedure for recording death becomes much easier for loved ones. In the future, a person does not usually have to go to a civil status office to register death. Death data shall be recorded automatically in the population register when the health care provider has drawn up a death report. That's how a person's death is registered in the state. The death certificate for burial is then obtained either from a doctor or from a civil status office. All amendments to the Law on Civil Status Procedures relating to the registration of death relate to the electronic transmission of death documentation from 1 July of the following year. To this end, some IT solutions need to be developed and read more about in the explanatory memorandum. Thirdly, it will be possible to record the family relations of beneficiaries of international protection in the population register on the basis of a decision on the granting of international protection drawn up by the Police and Border Guard Board once family events and relationships have been established in the context of the procedure for granting international protection. Fourthly, the term of marriage is extended. According to the current law, marriages are not concluded more than one month and later than three months after the application for marriage has been filed. The draft extends this deadline. The marriage can be concluded at the earliest one month after the date of the application for marriage and at the latest six months after the date of submission of the application for marriage. It provides an opportunity to plan this important event further. Civil status officials who participate in the event will also find it easier to plan their time. The draft also aims to make a number of other amendments to the Civil Status Act. The simplification of applications to civil status offices by reducing the number of data to be provided in the application, allowing the submission of a request for a repeated certificate and for data to be obtained from a document reflecting a change in the law of the family or name, in addition to a personal presence or digitally signed transmission, through a representative or by post, the obligation to submit a separate application for registration of a change in civil status data abroad is waived and the process of conferring the right to act as a civil status officer is simplified in such a way that the minister may, if necessary, delegate the grant of that right. The draft also establishes a legal basis for restoring the right date or place of birth of persons adopted before 1 January 1995 when their date of birth or place of birth was changed at the time of adoption. Next, further changes to the Population Register Act. The draft complements the list of basic documents for entering the data in the population register, which are all dependent on the aforementioned amendments to the Civil Status Act. The supervisory dispute resolution chapter will also be updated, which will be better aligned with existing law. According to the draft, the body responsible for resolving disputes is the controller, the Ministry of the Interior. The main changes to the Cause of Death Act also result from the amendments mentioned in the draft Civil Status Act in order to ensure the electronic movement of death data. These amendments will certainly simplify the work of doctors, as data transmission is electronic. There are also changes to the law on the amendment of the Government Act and other laws resulting from the cessation of the activities of rural governments. The amendments ensure that when the Act amending the Government of the Republic Act and other laws enters into force, the full competence of the local government unit of the county centre as a civil status institution will also enter into force. It is clearly pointed out that the local government unit of the county centre is also competent to record data on the basis of the decision granting international protection. Unlike the existing rural governments, the local government unit of the county centre will not instruct local authorities other than civil status offices. Nor does the local government unit of the county centre organise training exams for them; this task will go to the Ministry of the Interior in the future. That's all for short. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U59	The first question to the minister is put by Peeter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U60	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I think it is an excellent draft: making life arrangements more flexible, faster, not having to spend half a day going to the municipality in the event of death and registering the birth of a child as well. However, why has this excellent approach drawn up an intention to develop, which is unfortunately not the case with most drafts, but has not been drawn up in order to resolve the problem of beneficiaries of international protection? It seems to me that it was precisely on this issue that it would have been necessary. With regard to the first regulation, it is clear to the hedgehog that a more flexible modern approach is in any case a good one.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U61	Thank you, that's a good question. I was interested in it myself when I dealt with the bill. While doing so, it was decided to draw up a plan for the expansion of family e-services, one of the objectives was to clarify the volume of additional IT solutions needed and their impact on family relations. It was necessary to examine in detail what would happen, for example, if one parent made the entry, but the other parent did not accept it. So, as you said, this is a very necessary change, but it needed a plan to be developed. As regards the inclusion of family relations between beneficiaries of international protection in the population register, this need is a result of life itself. This is important, for example, if a foreigner claims to be close relatives of a person who has been granted international protection and also wants international protection on this basis. Such questions are on the table every day, and it takes a lot of time and energy to solve them. However, these are civil status procedures and there is not much time to resolve these matters. We want to reach the same level in this area, where there are already many other foreign countries. In our case, the State, the Police and Border Guard Board, which also deals with migration and civil status issues, has the right to record the data of statements made during the international protection procedure in the database. If these statements are subsequently changed, it is clear that these data must be changed in the course of judicial proceedings. It's all that simple. In one way, we are talking about a process that affects dozens and even hundreds of thousands of people in Estonia, whose lives are getting easier and reducing certain family disputes. On the other hand, it is useful that we often have to prove the family ties of one person or another using international channels, and perhaps we will no longer be stuck behind the nuances that may give rise to repercussions in international disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U62	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U63	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, This is certainly an important law, especially the part that expands digital opportunities in our e-state. My question is simply about funding for labelling purposes. With the abolition of rural governments, the civil status and other population functions will be transferred to the county centres. This time, the funds concerned were transferred to the order of magnitude that the rural governments had. In the future, will these things be implemented through the Equalisation Fund, so that the county centres will receive money for these operations from there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U64	At the moment, it is true that the county centres have made the money available to the extent of the sums that were available to the rural governments. I myself believe that, thanks to this law, all this burden will actually be reduced. Certainly a lot of people want to take advantage of the opportunity to make entries at home using a computer. As far as the Equalisation Fund is concerned, in future, I think this is really the case. But if you want more information, I can send it to you in writing. Today, we are handing over the functions of rural governments in the same way, but at the same time we are reducing the pressure on the municipalities in the county centres who have to carry out these activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U65	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U66	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. In committee, I forgot one thing without asking. Now, if a lot of registrations relating to birth and death and other civil status procedures become even more digital, electronic, are there any people who still want to communicate directly with someone in the event of important events? Will there be those officials to whom they can go with their happy or sad message?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U67	I'm sure they will. After all, it is one of the principles of Estonian e-governance that we promote e-services that make our people's lives easier, but if anyone wants to communicate with an official on a happy or sad occasion, these people will, of course, continue to play their part. As I said here in my presentation, county authorities do this work. So these two things definitely don't rule out each other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U68	Minister, thank you. No further questions for you. The report shall be made on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs by the Member of the Commission, Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Legal Affairs, the draft law amending the Civil Status Act and other laws was on the agenda on 16 October. At the first reading of the draft, Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, Ramon Loik, Head of the Department of Population Operations at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Enel Punga, Deputy Head of the same department in the field of law, Mr. Mari Käb, Legal Adviser, and Mr. Laine Mokrik, Lawyer of the Health and Wellbeing Information Systems Centre, managed by the Ministry of Social Affairs. Mr Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, presented the content and objectives of the draft law to the Commission. Broadly speaking, the report contained the same information that the minister just brought to us in this Chamber. However, I will mention some of the most important changes highlighted by the Commission. They relate to the registration of birth and death, civil status procedures and the registration of data on persons granted international protection in the population register. The draft extends the range of persons who will be able to submit the application for registration of the child's birth with a digital signature. While so far only married parents were able to do so, the new set of rules allows most parents to submit a digitally signed application. The exceptions are, as Andres Anvelt has already pointed out, minors' parents and disabled parents cannot do so. The bill will make it much easier to register death as of 1 July next year. In general, a person no longer has to go to a civil status office to register the death of a family member. Death data shall be recorded automatically in the population register when the health care provider has drawn up a death report. As regards the cessation of rural government activities, the draft also includes changes to the tasks related to birth-deaths and legal changes to the name of the municipality and city authorities. In addition, the draft makes a number of other amendments to the Civil Status Act: reduces the number of data to be provided in the civil status statement, allows for the submission of an application for multiple statements and for data to be obtained from a document reflecting a change in the law of the family and name, in addition to being present in person or sent digitally, by a representative or by post, waives the obligation to submit a separate application for registration of changes to civil status data made abroad and simplifies the process of granting the right to act as civil status officer or the right to enter into a spiritual marriage in such a way that the Minister may, if necessary or if he so wishes, delegate the grant of that right. In addition, the law's gap in filing an appeal will be eliminated and the concept of a family event will be defined. We were all told about this in the Commission, and the minister presented this draft in the big hall today. The Commission took such decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session by today, 24 October, to propose that the first reading be closed and that Urve Tiidus be appointed rapporteur. All these decisions were taken by consensus. It was also decided to propose a deadline of 7 November at 4 a.m. for amendments. The voters were Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Dmitri Dmitriev, who replaced Toomas Pauri, and Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U70	Honourable waitress! You don't have any questions. I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading. First reading of Bill 511 is complete. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 16 a.m. on 7 November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U71	Fifth item: First reading of the draft law amending the Law on Competition initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please present a speech chair to the Minister of State Administration, Jaak Aabi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of the draft law amending the Law on Competition is to clarify the way in which de minimis State aid and State aid granted under the Block Exemption Regulation are to be notified. The aim is also to increase the transparency of State aid and to bring the references used in competition law into line with the changed EU legislation. The draft clarifies the way in which de minimis State aid and State aid rules under the Block Exemption Regulation are notified. The purpose of the amendment is to provide clearly that the potential applicant must be informed of the nature of the proposed aid and of the general principles governing the granting of the aid. In the case of an aid scheme, this can be done by laying down general principles in the text of the aid scheme. The requirement to inform the beneficiary of the general principles of assistance is based on recommendations from the European Commission. The aim is, in particular, to improve the knowledge of the aid provider and the rules applicable to it. The changes are not a new principle for donors. In practice, the grantors already inform the beneficiaries of the nature of the proposed aid and of the general principles governing the granting of the aid, and therefore this change does not increase the workload of both the State aid providers and the producers of the aid measures. It is simply this principle that is now laid down at the level of the law. The draft provides for the obligation of the Ministry of Finance to comply with the State aid transparency requirement. This is a requirement imposed by the European Commission on 1 July 2016 according to which the Member States had to make public the State aid granted by that date in excess of EUR 500000. In general, such information must be published in the European Commission's Transparency Module within six months of the date on which the aid was granted. The purpose of the transparency requirement is, inter alia, to enable citizens and businesses to easily obtain relevant information on the State aid granted, including the beneficiary, the amount and purpose of the aid. In addition, the references used in competition law are now brought into line with the changed EU legislation. These are changes of a technical nature resulting from changes in European Union legislation. A reference to a specific legal instrument is necessary for reasons of legal clarity. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U73	The first question is put to the Minister by Urve Tiidus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U74	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. That's what I'm asking you right now. The tenth point of the explanatory memorandum is the coordination of the draft. Here is a list of those to whom the draft has been sent for coordination and opinion. Among them are several municipalities. Can you explain a little why this is the choice? Here, for example, Valgjärve Municipality Government, Lääne-Nigula Municipality Government and some others, but we knew that we had a lot more and more rural municipalities at the time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U75	Thank you for your question. I don't know in detail why these parish governments were elected. It is likely to be a random choice, or it has been chosen local governments, with whom the matter has been dealt with in the past. Perhaps they have had problems reflecting state aid and complying with certain rules. The only comment that was sent by the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund was the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund, and I will mention this issue here. At the beginning of the draft, the regulation on the recovery of unlawful and misused State aid was also envisaged, but there is currently one legal procedure in progress to decide whether the grantor of State aid can recover it or must do so through the European Commission. Since this procedure is still ongoing, we have left it out of the draft regulation for the time being. But if this issue has been resolved in court and we have also been informed of the European Commission's assessment, then this amendment, in the form of a bill, will also come here to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U76	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. Tarmo Kruusimäe, member of the Economic Commission, will present the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U77	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing more to add than that, including on 16 October at 11.10, the Committee on Economic Affairs met to discuss this draft. Sven Sester, Erki Savisaar, Peeter Ernits, and Kaido Rosin, adviser and secretary, advisers Marin Daniel and Piia Schults and consultant Margit Ubaleht were present. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, and Laura Sofia Annus, lawyer of the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance, were also invited. So what was decided? Firstly, to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary sitting of 24 October, secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 days, i.e. 7 November. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U78	The President also thanks. There are no questions for you. I will open negotiations for the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 508. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 508 amendments on 7 November at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U79	The sixth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act submitted by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. Aivar Sõerdi, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U80	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of this draft is to restore in the Income Tax Act the possibility for spouses to submit a joint income tax return. In practice, this means that the income of the spouses and deductions from the income are added together. Estonian tax law has previously applied the principle that spouses can submit a joint tax return. For the second time, the Reform Party has now submitted a draft re-establishment of the joint declaration, because the Government Coalition has not fulfilled its promise and has not restored the possibility for spouses to submit a joint tax return. The coalition promised to restore the joint income tax return of the spouses, but in June, as you will remember, the government submitted a draft law amending the Income Tax Act and related amendments to other laws, which became a law and did not restore the joint declarations. The allowance that was made was that, in the event of a lack of income or a fall below a certain level of income, one spouse can deduct from his or her income a certain amount of additional tax-free income on behalf of the other spouse. The draft law initiated by the Reform Party Group is very important especially for families where one spouse is at home and only another spouse earns income. It is the families where one spouse works and the other does not work that are most helped by the restoration of joint income tax returns. To date, a summary of the 2016 income tax returns has also become available. There were some 68,000 joint declarations, and the number of families where one spouse did not work was 7490. The fact that the legislative amendment of June only slightly extended the possibilities is proof that, if the recovery of joint declarations costs EUR 22 million, the budgetary impact of the small concessions will be EUR 3.4 million. It is therefore reasonable to say that only minor concessions were made, with only 15% of the potential. Well, that's a small part! But short on the bill. Paragraph 1 is supplemented by Paragraph 44 (15) of the Income Tax Act. The purpose of this amendment is to restore the possibility for spouses to submit joint declarations. Paragraph 2 complements Paragraph 46 (1) by the principle that the parties to the joint declaration are jointly and severally liable for payment of the income tax due. Paragraph 46 (6) is supplemented by the principle that the more paid income tax can also be transferred to the spouse's account. Of course, such an amendment to the law will have a positive effect. The explanatory memorandum sets out the 2015 revenue declaration data. Then 78700 joint tax returns were submitted, which represents 23.6% of the respondents. At the time of the submission of the draft, we did not yet have the aggregated data on the 2016 income tax returns. As I said, 68877 joint tax returns were received on the basis of the 2016 aggregates. Let it be said here that the Income Tax Act no longer even contains the concept of a common tax return. On 28 August, the Postimees newspaper published a notice from the tax office on the submission of income tax returns for 2016. The representative of the Tax and Customs Board says that the income of 2017 can no longer be declared jointly by the spouses. And then, those who do not have the opportunity to make full use of the overall tax-free income and certain deductions themselves can, under certain conditions, transfer the unused portion to the spouses. Moreover, there are also restrictions in the Income Tax Act, for example in the case of interest on housing loans of EUR 300 per year. If we had a joint declaration, the sum of EUR 300 could be added for two spouses would be EUR 600, but this is no longer an option. And the reason is also to know why the coalition does not want to restore joint tax returns: this is too high a cost to the state budget. This is what the previous Minister of Finance Sester and the current Minister of Finance Tõniste have told us in their letter. Minister Tõniste recently also presented the Government's written position on the current draft to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Minister says that the reintroduction of the joint declaration of income of spouses in the form in force on 31 December 2016 would have a negative impact on the state budget. In 2018, the budget would have an impact of EUR 18.6 million. It must be concluded from this that 18.6 million is the amount that the coalition will take from the family's pockets, from the family's budget, leaving the joint tax returns unrecoverable. I would also like to add that the joint tax return is also in line with the current family law. It is clear that the possibility of joint income tax returns has been a privilege for married couples. Now the coalition has devalued this privilege and the compelling argument, as I said, is too much of a cost to the state budget. This year's 17 May Eesti Päevaleht has an interview with the Chairman of the IRL, where he says: 'The issue of collective declaration of spouses is certainly not a measure that has a huge financial impact and meaning. But it's very important in society on a value basis. The collective declaration of spouses must be restored. " You have to agree to that. This draft is for this purpose, and I very much hope that it will be approved and supported. The objective is very clear: the joint declarations of spouses must be restored in full. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U81	There are questions before support. Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U82	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Technical question. As a result of our committee meeting, I asked the Ministry of Finance to answer your questions in writing. Did you get to know the answers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U83	Yeah, of course I got to know them. They came this morning. I didn't get a full answer to all the questions, but I've met them and they exist. Thank you to the Treasury Department for their answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U84	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U85	Thank you, good Chairman! Good waitress! I have a question for you. Can you tell us who was the leading politician of the Reform Party in 2014 who said that it would be reasonable to exclude housing loans in the case of a joint income tax return, because most people already have housing bought out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U86	Thank you for your question. Interest on the mortgage can still be deducted. These rates have been cut, as far as I know, 300 euros is the annual amount that can be deducted from the interest on the mortgage in the income tax return. If anyone said something in 2014, I think it does not concern this bill. I don't know who it was, maybe you know it. However, the interest on the mortgage can still be deducted, except that in the joint declaration the amount would be higher than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U87	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U88	Thank you, President-in-Office. My dear colleague, the waitress. Your presentation on this subject has certainly always been well in black colours. Did you completely accidentally or deliberately fail to mention the background system? The tax-free minimum still rises to EUR 500, which is a very large increase compared to the increase of EUR 10, it is quite revolutionary. People receiving up to EUR 1700 will have 62 euros more each month next year and 700 euros by the end of the year. Is it quite right and fair to compare last year's situation with that of the coming year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U89	Thank you. Of course I am happy to answer that question. Look at this huge increase in the tax-free minimum, which you are talking about, from where do you know that the tax-free minimum would not have been increased for different solutions, even if it is now a progressive decline in the tax-free minimum? And we make comparisons all the time. The replies from the Ministry of Finance that he sent us today show a situation where the tax-free minimum is EUR 180 per month. But, in the meantime, a law was adopted, under which the tax-free minimum would have risen to 190 euros and then 205 euros. You canceled it. What is more, given how well budget revenue is now being paid to the public purse, it is practically over-perceived, I would not be surprised if it had been possible to increase the overall tax-free minimum at a much faster pace than has been the case in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U90	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned that the last time a joint declaration was submitted was 68000. In connection with one of the previous drafts, there was such information that about 6300 marriages were registered in Estonia in 2016. The reason why the possibility to submit a joint declaration was abolished is that it represents a high cost to the state budget. You, of course, stress that this is a return for the family, which is indeed of great value. Would you maybe theorize how much higher the number of couples who make a joint declaration would be if the joint declaration remained? There were 68,000, but if there were about 6,000 more in the year, how many would there be in three or four years, for example?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U92	Thank you. That's a good question. I also tried to analyze it a little on my own, although we do not have many of these opportunities here in the Riigikogu. The Ministry of Finance can certainly give more accurate assessments. According to 2016 data, the number of joint declarations was very high: 68000. That's the information we have today. I looked a little bit at history, too. This number has fluctuated. While the last economic boom was in 2005-2007, the number of joint declarations decreased slightly. This may have been due to the fact that there was, like now, a very high level of employment, and there were few families when one of the spouses did not work. Perhaps for this reason, the number of joint declarations decreased slightly in 2016 compared to 2015. There are fewer families where one spouse does not work than there is high employment and low unemployment. But there are still many families, over 7,000, where one spouse does not work. This means that the possibility of collective declaration would still be very popular today, giving economic benefits to families where one spouse does not work. That is the same amount of EUR 18.6 million that will be taken from these families.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U93	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U94	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I would like to thank you for your comprehensive, long and empty reply. But I want to ask you how it is possible that you decided in 2014 that you should propose to the public the possibility that housing loans might be excluded from the collective declaration of income. Doesn't it seem to you that you opened Pandora's box, which may later be used by others for economic purposes? I would argue that if this issue had not been opened in 2014, it would not have been viewed in that box and the principle that taxes should not be played would remain in force. Now, three years later, have you fundamentally changed that view?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U95	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You're wrong! You're lost! Neither in 2014 nor in the context of the joint declarations has there been any discussion of ending the deduction of interest on housing loans.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U96	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U97	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress, I thank you, of course, for the chastity! But I am now referring to the nuances of Estonian. I understand that 'is' and'would' or'ascends' and 'ascension' are still completely different things. One is a definite way of speaking, and the other is an indirect way of speaking. The tax-free rate will rise to EUR 500 from 1 January 2018. And actually, you brought these different comparisons yourself, and my question was whether they were appropriate. The year 2017 has not been a special year in the development of the Estonian state. We still have many years behind us, and tax-free income has never risen exponentially.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U98	Thank you. Tax-free income does not rise to EUR 500 for all. On the basis of annual income, not monthly wages, we are talking about annual income all the time. If the annual income goes above the average, we are talking about next year and, in fact, wage growth is very fast, 5 to 6%, then the tax-free minimum cannot be used at all. These people may also include skilled workers working with more sophisticated equipment. In fact, there is no coercive way of speaking here. The law that the tax-free minimum would have risen to 190 euros next year and 205 euros next year was passed, but you canceled it. And that was the overall tax-free minimum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U99	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your report, you noted that families where one is a worker and the other is not particularly suffering. This suggests, in my opinion, that if the family has decided that one of the spouses is at home and raises children, this work is not appreciated by the state. This makes it particularly sad that there is a question that still means for the state what family means as an institution. Please tell me whether the possibility of joint declarations will really be withdrawn from families only for those 19 or 20 million! A simple calculation shows that if the city hall were not done, families with this money could be supported in this way for three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U101	Thank you for your question. The city hall was taken out of next year's budget. It's not there. But so he is that the previous Minister of Finance sent a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs to the government's position that restoring joint declarations would be too much of a cost to the budget. This was confirmed by the current Minister. These letters are there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U102	Terje Trei, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U103	Thank you! Good waitress! It is clear that all of this is done for the sake of money, because the money is scarce. But do you think that this justifies breaking up family values and reducing the sacred promise of sharing everything in good or bad? I'm pretty worried about family values.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U104	Thank you for your question. That's very sad. All the more so, as the Chairman of the IRL said, banning the collective declaration of spouses is certainly not a measure that would have a huge financial impact. But for the coalition, it's too much of a cost, and the privilege of the spouses was sacrificed. And that is, in a situation where we have a budget for next year, like a boom-time budget. Yesterday, the Governor of Eesti Pank visited the Monetary Committee, who compared the current time to 2005. If we look at the budget for next year, we will see that there is more money in all areas. Anyone who wishes gets more money. But that's for families to save 18.6 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U105	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U106	Thank you, dear waitress. Listening here to the questions of our less trained colleagues, where we are talking about 500 tax-free euros per month, gives the impression that we are close to the agreement that everyone will have the 500 tax-free euro rate. People have got it all wrong. Please explain to those who can use this rate and who cannot! The fact that money is taken away from someone is such a proletariat technique, but there are also small-paid people who are also unable to use this 500 rate because they have too little annual average income. Please explain how many of these benefits are actually or partially lost!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U107	Thank you for your question. It would certainly take much more time to explain this than this format allows. But the general principle, if I have understood correctly now, is that if the average annual income exceeds EUR 1200 per month, the tax-free minimum will start to decrease and decrease to zero if the average monthly income is EUR 2100. Then the tax-free minimum will fall to zero. If the annual income is up to EUR 1200 per month, then EUR 500 is valid for tax-free income per month. In the case of higher income, it will gradually decline. When we talk about skilled workers who work hard, have been better trained and earn more wages, they are deprived of the opportunity to take advantage of the tax-free minimum at all. That's the negative facet of all this glory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U108	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U109	Thank you. When this draft was discussed in the committee, did others, apart from the drafters, have the idea that perhaps instead of investing in pointless concrete, it would make more sense to invest in people and hence in families? Or were you alone on that front?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U110	Thank you for your question. We did not get so comprehensive in the Commission with this debate. The Commission's format also does not allow this, and the committee chairman gave very little time to discuss this draft. We had a lot of technical issues. There were also officials from the Ministry of Finance who didn't answer all the questions, but we got those answers today. I would like to thank the chairman of the committee who asked for this. These issues remained a little vague at the Commission meeting and the Committee on Monetary Affairs asked for clarification. We also received the specified answers today. I can send you these.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U111	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U112	Thank you, dear waitress. As your highly educated specialist, of course, you are thinking of the upper end of the income, but my question was aimed rather at the lower end. Explain to your colleagues what those people who make 5,000, 4,000 or 3000 euros a year will not be able to do more! Can they make use of the tax-free minimum of EUR 500?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U113	Thank you. Unfortunately, these people can't. But actually, if we look at this top end of the pay scale here, these people are losing relatively little of this tax-free minimum part is just too small for them. The worst of all are those people whose wages are so much above EUR 1200 per month that the tax-free minimum begins to decrease and is reduced to zero for many. This category includes highly skilled workers in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U114	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, You named 11.9 million next year. Isn't that a little reduced? The Cohabitation Act was not revoked with the support of the Reform Party, and so there may be a number of partners who can submit a joint declaration in the future. Perhaps this amount is too small and the additional burden on the state budget will be much greater?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U116	Thank you for that question. These amounts have already been specified. We have 11.9 million in this explanatory memorandum, yes, but it is based on outdated data. The total impact of restoring joint declarations is EUR 22 million. The amendments to the Income Tax Act adopted in June made minor concessions with a cost of EUR 3.4 million. So 18.6 million is the exact amount that will be taken away from families because the possibility of joint declarations has disappeared.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U117	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U118	Good waitress! It has been said here that raising the income tax-free minimum is like an eternally awesome and useful thing that compensates for the amount of income that could arise from the submission of a joint declaration. I have asked a number of voters and other people whether or not they would benefit from raising the tax-free minimum. The standard answer is, I have no idea. Mr Kruusimäe was, like, very concerned about stability and other such things. What about this tax-free minimum anyway? Do we know if he's coming or not, who's coming and who's not coming? There's some shit in here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U119	Thank you for your question. I don't know. This will only be clear when 2018 is over. The taxpayer then sums up his salary and other income and the exact individual amount of the tax-free minimum is calculated on the basis of this year's income. It's kind of complicated to know in advance. I myself have explained that there is no way to know in advance certain benefits. Who can tell how much Tallinna Vesi, for example, will pay next year's dividends? If I knew how much Tallinn Water would pay next year's dividends, I might buy shares in the company, but I don't know. So it's impossible for many people to predict profits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U120	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U121	I understand that the problem is not an economic forecast, but simply that it is simply not possible to know in advance the amounts involved when applying the tax-free minimum proposed by the current coalition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U122	Yeah, that's right, except this is going too far from the subject of this bill. But basically, you're on the right track with your reasoning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U123	Terje Trei.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U124	Thank you! Good waitress, I'm still worried about valorizing the family, valorizing the rear. It shouldn't matter who earns less. If one person is still at home or is working part - time, the other may be able to contribute more for the benefit of society and his or her family. But they can't add up this amount in any way, they can't count on the tax-free minimum of 2 × 500 euros. How, though, can we explain this injustice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U125	Thank you for your question. Of course, it is unfair and the restoration of joint declarations, as proposed in the draft on our tables, would eliminate this injustice. In fact, joint declarations have been in Estonian tax law since 1994. In any case, they are important not only in terms of confirming the status of spouses but also in terms of real economic benefits for families.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U126	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U127	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You said that the budgetary impact of this decision would be EUR 12.6 million. Since it is difficult to find cover for such an amount, what do you think would be the unnecessary thing in the state budget that could cover the cost of this decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U128	Thank you. If I heard correctly, it wasn't 12.6 million, it was 18.6 million. But there's a lot of opportunities. For example, is it necessary for the state to intervene in the rental market? After all, there are tens of millions of euros involved. If we look into any area of ministry, we will find bureaucracy there that could be less. Perhaps management costs for certain institutions could also be reviewed. There's a lot of options. We have a state budget in the Committee on Monetary Affairs right now, and I dare say that every ministry has a place to save.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U129	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! The rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on Finance is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U130	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Now you have a pleasant opportunity to come back from the world of delusions to real life. The Commission discussed the draft law amending the Income Tax Act 484 this year on 17 October. The draft was presented by Mr Sõerd. He made his presentation in exactly the same way in the Commission, I will not repeat it. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance were present. After the introduction, questions could be asked. It was limited to the dialogue between the initiators and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and it ended when, at the end of the sitting, I asked that all the initiators' questions be answered in writing by the Ministry of Finance. They've been received, they're up in the register, and I'm not going to read them here. As my colleague Jürgen Ligi once said: what is the custom of reading a full-room protocol from start to finish? Everyone here will be able to read and this document will be fully accessible. The debate ended with the adoption of the decision to appoint the chairman of the committee as co-rapporteur and to carry out the first reading today, or 24 October. The proposal at first reading was rejected by 6 votes in favour, 4 against and 0 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U131	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U132	Thank you. You promised to bring us from the world of delusion to reality. Please specify to us what the previous speaker, Mr Sõerdi, was delusional in his presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U133	Thank you for a pleasant opportunity to tell me what I had to say in my final speech. Let's do a little math! In Estonia, I did not take into account that I needed to know a certain number of figures today, it was not possible to predict that this level of discussion would be the case for 600,000 people working. The Ministry of Finance claims that 86% of them will be won thanks to the new income tax-free minimum. If we round it down, about half a million people. Their victory is, given the average wage in Estonia, which is slightly over 1200 euros, 768 euros per year. Let's do a calculation: half a million times 768, so we can see that an additional EUR 300 million goes into families' pockets. We are discussing a world problem here today. According to the same family budget, 19.6 million were lost. The actual income that Estonian families receive only thanks to raising the tax-free minimum is more than 300 million, which exceeds 15 to 16 times the amount that was discussed today. Of course, I really liked the sentence that sounded here, and I'm trying to remind you of that about calculating revenue. I'm gonna check it on the verbogram. We're always told that you're not calculating exactly, that you're making some kind of false predictions, that you're not running a budget balance, and so on. At the moment, I find it extremely interesting that it is often impossible to do so. Something else was so incredibly good after reading the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U134	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U135	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It seems to me that this tax-free minimum may not help families that have many children and one of the family members is working, but the other one is not working. And there are difficulties. In this sense, I think it is appropriate to keep family values, to value families, as the explanatory memorandum of the initiators of the draft has shown that, above all, you are currently hitting young and large families, where one of the spouses works more often and the other is at home with children. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U136	Thank you. Just as one Minister in the Committee on Monetary Affairs commented. Family benefits will rise to EUR 6200 per year for families with three children, for example, next year. Increases the income tax-free minimum. The Income Tax Act is not the only law that regulates our lives. We have very many benefits for families with children in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U137	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. Somehow I hear this all the time, and you also referred to the Ministry of Finance's statement that 86% of people will win because of this tax-free minimum change. But if you calculate this by 86%, why do you base it on the previous tax-free minimum of 180 euros per month? After all, we have adopted a law that the tax-free minimum will rise to 190 euros and 205 euros in 2019 next year. Why do you guys keep embellishing this thing? We should at least be precise in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U139	In fact, these issues that have now been heard do not relate at all to what is being discussed in our committee meeting. As I said, I wanted to talk about this in my speech on behalf of the group. Now I don't know if it's worth presenting, because, Andres, I remembered the third thing. It was a question of why you did not count on this EUR 190. But for the same reason that we do not take into account the increase in excise duty on diesel planned by you next year. Because it doesn't exist, physically there's no money. Now this sentence, where you take that next year would have been an income tax-free minimum of EUR 190, maybe it would have had to wait more quickly. Well, that's already, let's say, like... Some older guy says, well, wait a minute, maybe he'll grow up. And the more we wait, the more chances it's gonna grow faster. But all right! There is no point in discussing something that is no longer in nature. We are not discussing an increase in excise duty, we are not discussing this EUR 10 tax either, because they simply do not exist in the law. To talk about what could have been, what could have come of it is a completely pointless story. Now I have to apologize to the hall, but my old friendship with Andres made me answer those questions. I repeat: these issues were not discussed in the Commission and there was no debate like this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U140	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U141	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The tax-free minimum is one noble instrument and the Reform Party has actually consistently defended it. I can, at my heart, say that we were the only party in the coalition negotiations that demanded an increase in the tax-free minimum. IRL had Duck's eggs, so they said they didn't give a shit about progressive income tax. Similarly, progressive income tax has always been of interest to the Centre Party. In our opinion, the tax-free minimum must be one part of the non-publicised income for each citizen. The state doesn't charge it, and it's over. The current failure is not social policy, family policy or economic policy, and we are protesting against it with this draft. The only area where this tax-free minimum really works perfectly is family policy. Indeed, the family is one whole. Parents or spouses distribute their roles, someone contributes more to work, someone else, and they will in any case receive their minimum amount of money that will not be burdened by the government's tax obligations. We thought the optimal limit would be 300 euros or 300 plus 300 euros. Now this border was lifted proudly to 500 and it is lied here every week that 500 is a tax-free minimum. But it's not! The point is, for those who have made more progress in life, the minimum is taken away from them at all! And there's a lot of them. So far, these people have been thought to be social locomotives, other job providers, specialists. Teachers will be among them in the near future. And now they're gonna tell everyone that they're gonna benefit! What are the people whose income will be cut? Who's gonna take the money from anyway? Those we're actually looking for with matchfire: professionals. We think we're gonna bring them in from abroad, but then the state's gonna say he's gonna put a higher tax burden on them than average. The second thing I couldn't get a performer to talk about is that as a social policy, it's bullshit. Socially vulnerable groups can't get that money. The poorest do not benefit from this exemption. You have to earn a considerable amount of money to get that money. The poor lose this benefit, in whole or in part. Admit it! Don't talk about 500 euros! Tax exemptions are not suitable for social policy. It is also a crap in economic policy, because it subsidises cheap jobs and, in fact, gives employers the pretext not to raise wages. They say you get more net. That is the reality, that is what is happening in the labour market. There is no justification for subsidising cheap jobs in economic policy. However, it is quite remarkable that we could limit the tax burden on high-wage earners. Fortunately, the tax burden on high earners has not been very high so far and it is even symbolically wrong to start raising it. We're gonna pretend like we're ever gonna make the hard-ass hand-switched uniworkers wealthy. No, I'm not! So, Riigikogu, think about whether a family is of value to you or whether it doesn't matter that we give one of us this income tax-free minimum and don't give it to another! And mostly we don't give it to women, but we're talking about 500 tax-free euros here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U142	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U143	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Centre Party Group does not support the draft law 484. We firmly believe that this legislative amendment, which concerns the tax-free minimum and will apply next year, is clearly both an economic and a social measure. We want to live like Sweden, but for some reason some of us do not want to pay taxes like those paid in Sweden. However, overall well-being depends on how society regulates cash flows. A person with a salary of over 2100 euros really loses it with a tax reform, but he still wants the street cleared when he comes to the street in the morning. He wants an aunt with a minimum wage to sit in the kiosk and sell her coffee and a newspaper. He'd like the office he's showing up in the morning to pick up the janitor and clean it up. That's all he wants. But he doesn't want to get into the way these people live. He doesn't want to give them anything. He keeps popping up and wants to talk about how good he is, he's got a good education and a high salary. Whatever it's for, he doesn't want to think about it. We are taking a big step towards a fair society next year. We're starting to raise wages. I am not saying that this is a campaign, it is a policy, and for that we have already taken several steps in the budget for next year. We are working to ensure that Estonia is not a country where only 15% of the population think it is ideal, a good country where it is good to live. We want the absolute majority to think exactly the same thing. This also requires more justice in the economy. So we don't support this going back. It's cave time. It is wrong to think that you can sit on a mountain all the time and look down from there: ah, they can't do anything, they don't have an education, let them live with the wages we've been giving them in our policies over the last 12 years! We do not support such steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U144	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Before I ask you a procedural question from Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Shouldn't the speeches on the remote have something to do with the bill? We just heard a proletarian hate speech here, but what does it have to do with family declarations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U146	The Home and Rules of Procedure Act says nothing about this. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U147	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Let me be very brief. To Jürgen Ligi, I would like to make this remark that the Reform Party was not the only party to talk about the need to raise the tax-free minimum in the coalition negotiations that you referred to. The fact that the Reform Party decided to withdraw the Free Party from the negotiations is a matter of a different nature, but we talked quite loudly about this need. And we were just talking about the need for a sharp increase. I also think that, unlike the current coalition, we had a completely working solution on how to do this, how to cover it by raising the rate of income tax, so that money would really remain in the hands of the low-paid people and there would be a certain balance, both in terms of monetary policy and in terms of the balance between the different incomes of society. Now a word to Mr Stalnukhin. I actually share the wonder. Mr Stalnukhin, as a representative of the Commission, came to the platform and announced that he would bring us from the world of delusions to the real world. I think it was the other way around. Mr Sõerdi's arguments were quite logically put forward and understood to me. But I'm sorry, I didn't see the connection between cleaning the streets and selling coffee in stalls and the issues that we're dealing with. Even so, we should not use such expressions here that the submission of joint declarations, which will certainly help families with children and young families where one of the parents works, the other being at home, would be going back to the cave age. I'm calling for a better choice of words in this remote control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-24_U148	There is no further wish for negotiations. Honourable Riigikogu, the commission has proposed to reject the draft 484 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal in plenary. Honourable Riigikogu, I put to the vote the proposal to reject the draft 484 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 42 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, with 37, no abstentions. Draft 484 has been rejected at first reading. Power! I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 12.42 p.m.
