ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. It's International Water Day. One of the greatest problems of this century is said to come from the water. We had a little concussion about the water bottles that appeared on our tables. Finally, we decided to collect them, because we do not bring food and food to this hall, which we all consider sacred. Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 49 MPs will take part in the meeting, 52 absences. Honourable members of the EKRE! Since Question Time is in accordance with other rules, we will discuss your likely protests at the beginning of the main sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U2	The first question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is asked by Arto Aas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister and Chairman of the Centre Party! The government of Tallinn proves the old belief that absolute power tends to corrupt completely. We know that in recent years a large number of central party city officials and politicians have been convicted of corruption. Unfortunately, this trend does not seem to change even during your reign as chairman of the Centre Party. In recent days, the pages are full of clues and concrete evidence that the assistant mayor responsible for the waste management in Tallinn also has a hidden participation in the waste companies operating in Tallinn. If that is true, it is a clear corruption, a conflict of interest. Among other things, Arvo Sarapuu himself and his family members, such as the son-in-law and business partner Margo Tomingas, are the great donors of the Centre Party. What do you think of that? Is this ethically correct or should something change? What is the moral assessment of the leader of the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U4	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Members of the Riigikogu and a good questioner! My assessment is one thing: corruption has no place. Combating corruption must be serious, effective, substantive and apparent. Political corruption has no place; it cannot be accepted either at national or local level. I think it is a good thing to say that we are completely on the same side with you on this issue. Conflicts of interest undermine confidence in the state and within the state and undermine democracy. Corruption reduces the cohesion of society, so it is a cross to one of our main objectives, which is also included in the government's action programme. The Transparency International Corruption Perception Index has been taken into account as a specific indicator which should objectively reflect the achievement of the objective set by the Government of the Republic. On this point, I say so much that in 2012, the rate of perception of corruption was 64; in 2013 it was 68; in 2015/2016. But it was 70 years ago. On the basis of these figures, Estonia was ranked 22 in the country ranking based on the index mentioned in 2016. My condemnation of corruption is clear, clear and very concrete. Thank you for raising this very important issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U5	Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday he asked five members of the Riigikogu to ask questions, so I give each of you two options for two additional questions. Arto Aas will now submit his additional question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U6	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! You spoke nicely, but you didn't answer the absolute question. I'm sure you're very familiar with the facts yourself. You have probably also heard hints that Arvo Sarapuu and his family members are registered at the same addresses as corporate management, the same names, the whole network. You can't ignore it. You yourself have been the mayor of Tallinn and very close to managing the Tallinn region of the Centre Party. Such a scheme will probably not be possible in the capital without the knowledge of you or the leadership of the Centre Party. The specific case must be known to you. You have said yourself that things need not only to be honest but also to be honest. I will give you one more chance to say what you think about a particular case and what you have done to put an end to this corruption-threatening situation in the capital of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U7	Thank you, good questioner! I answered your first question very specifically: there is no room for corruption. Now, on your second question, of course, there will be a serious charge against the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Centre Party, perhaps to me, because you say that I am aware of the substance of the case you mentioned. If you have any accusations against me, or if you have one gram of information that I'm somehow involved in some sort of corruption in the story you're bringing, for example, please say it. Don't just make accusations! When we talk about local government and local government corruption, we all understand that the honorable hall here, as the Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu said about it, is not the City Council of Tallinn. We know, firstly, that § 154 of the Constitution says unambiguously: all matters of local life are decided and organised by local authorities acting independently under the law. Secondly, if you want to be more serious about Tallinn, the law gives you the opportunity to do so. The Local Government Organisation Act states that any person who wishes to apply in the city of Tallinn can apply. So are you. I have watched, good Arto Aas, that we have been running for the first time in 2002 and then in 2009 and 2013. You had more than three times the result of me in 2002, and it has grown every time. A little bit of my vote has increased, too. In any case, it is best to apply to the City Council on 15 October and to resolve these issues there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U8	Arto Aas, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U9	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! You're squirming very long and smooth. I look forward to your ethical assessment of this case. I'm sure you've had a few weeks to read about it in the papers. You have certainly been able to ask your party associates about the facts of this case. I don't work in the DA's office, the police, or in court, so I don't judge. My role as an opponent is to find out the truth and also what you have done to solve the problem. Participation in the elections and the results of the elections are not at all relevant at this time. Such squirming, frankly, gives rise to hesitation that you have something to hide or that you do not want to give clear answers. Once again, I will give you the opportunity to state your position on this case concerning the leadership of the Estonian capital and Central Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U10	Thank you. I'm going to say back to you once again: if you have any charges against me, or if you're saying that I've been involved in something corruptly, just say it. Don't just drop the charges! I trust Estonian law enforcement bodies and our legal system. Local authorities are under pretty strong control and supervision. Point 1, The National Audit Office monitors the use of state funds and state assets for the use of local governments and assesses its legitimacy and feasibility. Point 2, the Chancellor of Justice, based on the law, supervises the compliance of the municipality or the city with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Point 3, the defence police controls six major cities in Estonia. Point 4, Landlord supervision. In addition, of course, electoral supervision. If you ask for my assessment of corruption, including in the city of Tallinn, I will say that it is in any way deplorable. Corruption must not be in any municipality, even in the capital.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U11	There are now two other issues registered on the spot. First, Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Now, with the last sentence, you made a little bit of progress. I don't want to be in line with the Centre Party, because you're basically chanting corruption in words, but basically you won't stand up to it. I think the Estonian public expected you to give an assessment of what is happening and has taken place in the city of Tallinn when you become chairman of the Centre Party, and there will be obvious changes. How much longer can the Chairman of Tallinn City Council be Kalev Kallo, who is currently under clear charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U13	Thank you. Honorable member of the Riigikogu! Your experience here in the Riigikogu is much greater than mine. I do think, however, that even though I do not know whether you agree with me or do not agree that the Riigikogu is not the place to bring questions from one municipality or city council. If you want to discuss the issues of Tallinn City Council, then the best place for this is Tallinn City Council. You can apply for a s. a 15 October. I certainly wish you a lot of strength to do this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U14	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U15	Thank you. My question does not concern the City of Tallinn or the City Council of Tallinn. We can only assume whether, in connection with what and for whom the two leading figures of the Estonian Prime Minister's party have begun to undermine the European Union's common policy of sanctions against Russia, the Putin regime, which occupied Crimea and is warring in Ukraine. The positions expressed by the leading politicians of your party in the Estonian Public Broadcasting Channels for two days in a row are not only grossly in conflict with Estonia's entire foreign policy line in relation to sanction policy, but also clearly undermine the credibility of Estonia, which will take over the Presidency of the European Union in a few months' time. In my opinion, this shows that your party still does not understand the size and weight of the responsibility you have in foreign policy. As Prime Minister and Chairman of the Centre Party, have you called the two leading politicians of your party into order?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U16	Thank you. Your party partner, Arto Aas, has already asked me a question about corruption, but of course I will also answer your question concerning the Estonian Presidency and certain assessments at the European Council. The answer is clear: I have said, for example at the December Council, that Estonia will support the continuation of sanctions for as long as international law and the Minsk treaties are not complied with. There's no room for discussion, not even one gram.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U17	I will conclude on this issue because we were talking earlier about the rules according to which two additional questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U18	The next question is for Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U19	Good President! Good minister! Today, amendments to the Forest Act will be discussed in this Chamber, and my question is motivated by this. When last time the conditions for the size of the cutting were relaxed, i.e. increased from 3 hectares to 7 hectares, the buying-in price of the timber fell dramatically. It was like a gift to the forest industry, while private forest owners suffered damage. Why does the Ministry of the Environment, i.e. the Minister, make all legislative changes in the interests of the big forestry industry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U20	Thanks for the question! First of all, Happy International Water Day! I promised you I'd say that. The Minister for the Environment does not have any analysis of the correlation between the average size and the current market prices of timber. The Minister of the Environment of the Republic of Estonia does not bring into the Riigikogu a Forest Act based on any other understanding than that of § 2 of the Forest Act, the content of which is simplified: the objective of the Forest Act is to ensure ecological diversity and the sustainable management of forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U21	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U22	There's a chancellor in your ministry who bears the last name Talijärv. His background is that he has been the leader of the Forest Industries Association. Very many critics say that your chancellor represents precisely the interests of the forest industry. You have now assigned him to run RMK, the largest forest owner in Estonia. Why are you letting a lobbyist from the big industry operate like that in your ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U23	Thanks! Andres Talijärv and the Director General of the Environmental Board, Andres Onemar, have also been accused of having a Soviet forest education. Mine's Soviet, too. I think it is right for specialists and specialists to deal with the issues for which they have been prepared and what they have learned. As far as forestry or forest management is concerned, the former EPA, now known as the Estonian University of Life Sciences, is the place where the time of foresters and forest women has been taught. It is perfectly understandable that when a person is over 50 years old, his or her career is at least 30 years long and he or she has worked in a wide range of positions. I think it makes sense for a person to have an experience in this field. I do not agree with your understanding that this is a lobbyist for the forest industry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U24	Arthur Talvik, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U25	Thank you. Another conclusion can be drawn from the legislative amendment that we are discussing today: the government is groaning in a lack of money and using all kinds of opportunities to implement the budget. Critics have said that this legislative amendment will give RMK the opportunity to earn more dividends so that you can fill the state budget. Do you not feel that this is a cynical approach to the Estonian forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U26	Thanks! Short answer: Doesn't seem. But I'm trying not to be rude to you and I'll explain. As far as RMK's dividends are concerned, this was already forecast by the previous government on 28 April 2016 and took place under the leadership of Taavi Rõivas. True, when the new government came to power, RMK's dividends were not reduced. However, in order for the picture to be clear and not to be dim, I say that in the light of our country's budgetary strategy, the situation is as follows. Indeed, in 2017 there will be EUR 30 million of dividends, and in 2018 there will also be EUR 30 million, while in 2019 there will be EUR 10.6 million. Therefore, no more felling is needed to achieve better economic results, and already in 2017, the volume of felling will be smaller than in 2016. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U27	Please, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U28	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Here's the question. Why does the Ministry of the Environment not encourage security cutting rather than clear cutting? Wouldn't this be a measure that would help to keep the market price under better control? If the market price increases, it may also motivate the private owner to maintain his forest more actively.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U29	Thanks! If you have read through this bill, which has been brought to the Riigikogu and which we will be dealing with about three or four o'clock between now and then exactly such goals will, among other things, be the alternative to clear cuttings, the greater use of security cuttings and selective cuttings will be set.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U30	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Yesterday, there was a TV programme called "Forum," which dealt with the same subject. The Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Rainer Vakra, stated that in private forests, the renewal of strips is supported by three million euros, for plants and for everything else. I'd like to understand now. It was given the impression that the state supported it quite strongly. In fact, however, only EUR 800000 was allocated during the call for proposals last year and around EUR 450000 is foreseen this year. If we add them up, we get 1.2 million. I would like your position. Was misinformation given yesterday? Then who's telling the truth? How do we support reforestation after clear cutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U32	Thanks! I have to offer you, because I found the latest data for 2016. For example, it states that the amount of aid paid for reforestation is 1.2 million euros. Forest subsidies for private forests combined are certainly higher. For example, the State's own contributions amounted to 2.7 million in 2016, but this was complemented by European Union funds and funds linked to various environmental constraints, so that in 2016 the total amount was EUR 7,63 million. This was broken down as follows: forest inventory support for private forest owners EUR 250000, forest reforestation aid just over 1.2 million, forest improvement work aid just EUR 190000, private owner advisory support 470000, forest cooperatives support just under 580000, plus grants for heritage culture conservation and exhibition, and Natura 2000 private forest land support for nearly 4 million. The investment support for the development of the forest area and the improvement of the viability of forests is still EUR 940000. That's how it comes together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U33	I will finish the discussion on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U34	The third question is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and presented by Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! The new year will be subject to first registration and re-registration taxes for cars, which are called environmental taxes. I basically have two questions. Firstly, do you not think that these taxes, which, depending on the brand of the car and the engine's capacity, can reach, say, EUR 400, are a step that clearly contributes to marginalisation? Secondly, do you not think it is hypocritical to call these taxes levies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U36	Thank you very much for this question. If you don't mind, I'll start with a description of the problem. The current situation is that Estonia is one of the most polluting passenger car parks among European countries. This, unfortunately, is something that we must recognise and deal with. In 2005, Estonia was in the last place in the European Union in terms of the fuel efficiency performance of new cars. This is why the fuel efficiency of our fleet needs to be improved. Now that you are asking about the environmental fee for motor vehicles and their rates, it is true that the environmental fee for motor vehicles will be charged at the time of the first registration of vehicles or, if the vehicle is already in the register in Estonia, at the time of the first change of ownership of existing vehicles. We have agreed that in the case of newer vehicles, the level of the fee for passenger cars will depend on the CO2 indicator and that cars produced before 2015 will be based on the capacity, i.e. kilowatts. You gave an example of the outskirts of Estonia. We also had this question on the table during the development of the environmental tax on motor vehicles. As you can see, the obligation to pay a capacity-based environmental fee applies to the 2007 construction year vehicles. And here's the coefficient, it's 20%, or 80% off.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U37	Mart Helme, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U38	Thank you. We also see from this table that lower tax rates are precisely for older cars. Isn't it counterproductive because older car brands pollute more than new ones? What do you say to that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U39	Thank you. In my opinion, on your first question, there was also part of the answer, namely the regional political aspect. With this secret, the older vehicles really are quite a lot in Estonia's rural areas, especially on the outskirts. And in order that this reregistration does not become absurd, given the market price of the vehicle, the advantage that I have said in reply to your first question is 80%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U40	Mart Helme, the second point to be specified, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U41	Yeah, I'd like to continue on the same subject. I wonder if any calculations have been made as to how much of this tax should be collected in the state budget. Are there any indications of what this money will be used for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U42	Thank you. Yes, the calculations are of course made and not only, but also the elastic component has been included. Just as taxes are still collected in the state budget and the state budget finances activities related to environmental protection, social affairs or investment in roads. These areas are very numerous. Such binding taxes have rather been waived in the Estonian budget structure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U43	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! I would like to ask, however, why you decided to use the CO2 tax only for 2015 and for newer cars, while it is known that CO2 figures also exist for vehicles older than 2015 because AMTEL, the Estonian Association of Car Sales and Service Companies, claims that there are data on CO2 in the Traffic Register at least since 2008. Why did you decide to base vehicles manufactured before 2015 on a kilowatt-based tax that does not take into account the environmental impact? You're talking about environmental impact all the time. Who misled you when you discussed it last week in the cabinet? Did AMTEL or the Ministry of Finance say that older CO2 figures do not exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U45	Thank you, good questioner! Don't get mad! No one's fooled anyone. The question was how is the most correct and how the most accurate data can be obtained. Of course, it was developed by the Ministry of Finance. Their proposal was also that from a given year of construction we can calculate everything from CO2 very easily. However, for older cars, data is not always available and should therefore remain based on kilowatts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U46	Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U47	I would like to begin by saying that I am very sorry that you did not essentially answer the first question of today's Question Time, which was asked by Arto Aas. In addition to the County Elder and the Defence Police Office you mentioned, the chairman of the party must still have a clear position in a situation where the public has had very many questions about the ethical nature of the activities of the leading member of your party. But I'm asking about the car tax. All kinds of car, bank, juice, mortgage, etc. taxes are becoming the so-called handwriting of your government. After all, it is quite clear that the justification of taxes on the environment is quite arbitrary, because I have not noticed that a change of ownership would in any way cause particular damage to the environment. However, I would like to know how you agreed to impose a car tax on the IRL. Because I read the IRL programme from 2015, where it is unambiguously said that any car tax will be excluded in terms of engine power, CO2 and everything else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U48	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You have now returned to the first question of Question Time, but a member of the Riigikogu is definitely entitled to do so, and I will of course answer. Corruption is not only controlled by the authorities you mentioned and I mentioned. As I said, there is another very important instance, namely the voters. In each election, they will also assess our actions, including corruption or the lack of it. As for your claim that the chairman of the party must also keep his hand on the pulse, I say that not only every day, as you said, but every hour. Of course, the chairman of the party must also be held accountable. I guess you've experienced it when you were the chairman of the party, and so have I. I totally agree with that. There's no way out of this responsibility. Now, your question about the IRL. Well, I understand what you mean by car tax and IRL. I have said on several occasions in my reply that this really is an environmental fee for motor vehicles. If you want to know how to find common ground with our partners in the government coalition, then it's a sense of team. If the coalition partners have mutual trust and a common desire to do good things in the Estonian country, i.e. increase the salaries of teachers, increase the cost of protection or contribute to a better framework for entrepreneurship, then we must work together, especially in good things. But, of course, we can't let the budget fail either. In my opinion, three partners are working together in the coalition with good and reliable cooperation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U49	Since we have had a good pace in the round of questions and answers, I will give you one more chance to ask about it. Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U50	Thank you. I would still come back to this so-called environmental issue of car tax. You said you were going to make regional concessions. But my logic says that if it's still environmental, then it has to be environmental, one size and equal to everyone. If you have a strong desire to make concessions, then this should be done with another measure. How does the environmental tax contribute to environmentally harmful consumption?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U51	Thank you. I don't know, I never said we'd make a car tax. I've been talking about the environmental fee for motor vehicles, and I'm sticking to it. Nor have I said that we are making regional concessions. This topic came up with a question from a member of the Riigikogu when I said this: it can be assumed that there are more older cars outside the centres than there are in the centres. But there are no regional differences on the basis of kilowatts or CO2. It is still a unified system across Estonia. If there are older cars, we will count the kilowatts and really make an 80% discount, but CO2 will be taken into account for the newer cars. So maybe you just misunderstood, because we certainly do not take into account regional differences in the environmental tax on motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U52	I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U53	The next questioner is Küllik's Hatter, answer Minister Marko Pomerats of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U54	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! In the last ten years, cutting volumes have increased twice the circa. You can also see it visually very well. People's awareness of fellings has also increased more and more. The activities of the State Forest Management Centre have also been noted. For example, in the municipality of Leisi in Saaremaa, a hundred trees under nature protection were taken down during cutting work in a rare area where yew trees were grown. The Western District Attorney's Office has reported that they have initiated criminal proceedings to investigate the incident. RMK itself has said that the error was caused by the error of information systems, i.e. the alarm system should have warned where there are yew trees and where you should not be cut. What's your information? How far is criminal proceedings? What happened to updating information systems and correcting the error?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U55	Thanks! I'll start from the back to the front. It has been argued that such an error can no longer occur in the information system in the future. As a minister, as far as the specific procedure is concerned, I look forward to the result. Haven't asked how far to go with the procedure. When the procedure is over, everything can be done by law. In addition to the fact that criminal proceedings have been initiated, RMK has proposed a reparation programme and it will be negotiated with the specialists of the Environmental Board. Once this plan is discussed, we will definitely come to a solution. Fortunately, it is a very strong population and about 10% of the yew trees were damaged. RMK can make up for its wrong behavior to nature. As far as the procedure is concerned, this is in accordance with our rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U56	Külliiki Hatter, first additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U57	Thank you, good vice chairman. I will also give another example of Karula National Park, the target protection zone of Põllajärv. In fact, a person must not set foot there for nearly six months a year, but suddenly RMK had begun cutting work for the reconstruction of a road of 0.3 hectares. They say the project was drawn erroneously, and the explanatory statement did not match it. But people had another big question about what was going on. According to them, the Environmental Inspectorate has begun the procedure even on its own initiative. Do you have any information that is the conclusions of the Environmental Inspectorate, which are based on it, and has the project been resolved? How far away is this activity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U58	Thanks! That, too, is true. There's a tea-chambering around the Karula. In the coordinated route corridor, the strip became one or two metres wider during the deforestation process. It is the target conservation zone for the habitats of the wild and frog eagle. The line zone itself is legal there, but the deforestation became wider. The Environmental Inspectorate has initiated a misdemeanour procedure in the case in which enquiries have been sent to the authorities and persons concerned. If it becomes clear and it is known whether and how much damage has been done to the environment, there are two options: if the damage is more than EUR 4 000, then criminal proceedings will be opened, if less, then misdemeanour proceedings. It is too early to draw conclusions from this, because it can be said that everything is only in its early stages. It will certainly also be discussed with the Environmental Board as to whether a remedial action plan can be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U59	The Hatter, the second additional question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U60	Thank you. Good Minister, please describe how the Ministry of the Environment monitors the logging activities of RMK! Who is the controller and how does the control system work? Or is it that surveillance is built on the fact that if anyone in the neighborhood notices anything, it'll report it, i.e. active citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U61	Thanks! We consider RMK's employees to be professionals in our field and, of course, we rely on the work planned to be done as planned. As always, it is an imperfect situation, and mistakes may arise. In this case, however, the situation is simple, as the law requires, and so is the case. There's nothing very mysterious about it. Of course, there is no reason to rejoice that such things happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U62	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U63	Thank you. Good minister! As your answers to RMK were exhaustive for me, I will expand the subject and ask you as an honest and wise person about Tallinn's waste management, which indirectly concerns your administration. Your assessment is important here. How do you feel about the Tallinn Waste Management Scheme, whether it stinks or not? A situation where... [[The minister is starting to answer.]] Let me finish! A situation in which some companies are pushed out of the market, while others are given incentives and allowed to operate without a licence, all with the knowledge of the municipality. What is your ethical assessment of Tallinn waste management?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U64	Thanks! I have, unfortunately, had to say this once from this speaker's desk that I only read the Virumaa Journal in the newspapers and have not followed the process at all. Life has taken a long time to deal with other important issues. But I'm sure I'll catch up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U65	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Unfortunately, for me, not all of RMK's answers were exhaustive. Let me give you a third example. In the territory of Viimsi rural municipality, Kelving village this month, RMK performed a clear cutting on nearly 14 hectares in the Krillimäe landscape reserve area. At the same time, the locals said that they had not been negotiated. They weren't even aware of it, and it wasn't until the evening, when they went for a walk with a dog, more or less, that the saws were turned on. How do you assess this case? It is as if the law says that it must also be discussed with the municipality before clear cutting, that it must negotiate with the locals, that it must find compromises, and that only then will it be done with clear cutting. Do you think RMK has broken the law and exceeded its mandate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U67	Thanks! I can't confirm that last one. Indeed, in the case of the Viimsi Peninsula, apart from the fact that for some reason people like to live there, it is forests, three quarters of which are protected and a quarter are economic forests. RMK has drawn its conclusions from this aspect of communicating with "local authorities." If you look at RMK's website, you will find that local government, village elders and interested people are invited to attend the meetings in the event of planned cuttings. In Viimsi, this was the last meeting I remembered on 9 March. And I warn the people of Põlvamaa in advance: go to the website of RMK as well, because a felling is planned in the place of Heaven.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U68	I am also giving the opportunity to put forward an additional question on this subject, apart from those which have already been asked. Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U69	Thank you. Honorable Minister! Since you do not read the Postimees newspaper, I dare to draw attention to an article recently published there, the author of which is a former politician and former forest man Kaido Kama. This article is written with heartache about the Estonian forest. The author concludes with the question, and I quote: 'If the forest really grows at such a terrible rate in Estonia, that we must wave an ax with all our strength, but still there is no way to overcome this increase, why is there a need to constantly and continuously alleviate all the conditions that restrict and hinder the cutting? ' Can you please answer Kaido's question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U70	Thanks! I can't go along with Kaido Kama with that opinion. He had other opinions in this story ♪ I have been informed that such an article has appeared in the Postimees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U71	I will conclude on this subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U72	The next question will be asked by Mr Põldaru and will be answered by Mr Pomerants, Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U73	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, the introduction of wood creates a great deal of jobs, generates tax revenue and brings with it a number of other good things. I think that the production of renewable energy from renewable sources, including wood, is important in today's society, so we need to know how much we have in our forests what we can chop and how much we can cut. Unfortunately, however, we have a lot of laws changed, and after each legislative amendment, different calculations have been made. Different methodologies provide differences in the volume of felling and when the bonite class changes, more forest can be cut. The question is this: How much forest do we have, and for what purposes can it be cut?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U74	Thanks! Each type of wood and variety that is cut down should be used as a firewood, commercial wood to obtain construction material, etc. on a targeted basis. There's no secret. For all those who are concerned about the growth of Estonian forests and the volume of logging, I recommend that we use the forest data of the Environmental Agency. You can also visit the website of the Ministry of the Environment, as well as Marko Pomerants' Facebook site, where you can see how the situation has been between 2000 and 2014. For example, if the television crews are good, they see that the lower part shows the felling volume of the forest and the increase in the green part of the forest. For example, in 2015, the forest in Estonia was cut much less than it grew. And so are the economic forests. If one OECD indicator, which was 91% in 2014, has been mentioned here, it can be said that it was 75%. There have been times in Estonia in this 15 year period, for example in 2000, when the felling volume exceeded the increase. Between 2006 and 2007, it was around 50% and 75% in 2015, while the average is over 63%. What is stated in the forestry development plan remains, i.e. no more will be cut.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U75	Raivo Põldaru, the first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U76	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I pointed out that changes have been made since the legislative changes. The areas have changed greatly, the felling volumes vary, approximately 1.5 times depending on the methodology. But that's it. My question is whether we are in doubt that in the future all felling volumes will begin to decrease, because needs are growing. Are we going to lose the forest in the future because we are now changing the conditions and starting to cut down the younger forest? I get these thoughts, and I think society has the same fears.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U77	Thanks! I can assure you that the forest will be managed according to the forestry development plan. There is no plan to cut down a finer forest, still cut down on the basis of what is required by law. The felling volume and growth of forests in economic forests must be such a proportion that there is always more growth than is cut. If new wood consumers are added, the volume of harvested timber should be re-distributed on the market and the owner of the forest will be the winner. You can't blame him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U78	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U79	Dear Minister, I'll be back on the Viimsi logging case. Viimsi is a 13-hectare peninsula with very delicate nature and strong winds. Not to mention that the residents themselves could not negotiate the felling and were not even informed about it. There are a lot of people in Viimsi, and the forest is used there to restore people's own. Why does RMK have to fill the cutting volume right there when there are many more possibilities elsewhere?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U80	Thanks! I can only repeat myself. Indeed, forests are growing on the Viimsi peninsula, three quarters of which are protected, protected by protected areas, and a quarter are economic forests where forest management occasionally takes place. I certainly agree that the exchange of information can and should be improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U81	Raivo Põldaru, second additional question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U82	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. A study commissioned by the Ministry of the Environment in 2013 shows that a sustainable felling volume of 8.4 million cubic metres per year for climate policy purposes would be achieved. What do you say to that comment? Unfortunately, the actual figures are still higher. It may happen that in years' time, given our environmental capacity and climate, we will cut a lot more than we need. I am also thinking about the problems associated with carbon release and sequestration, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U83	Mr Põldaru, I am very pleased that you are concerned about carbon sequestration and emissions. That's good news to me. But here's what I'm gonna say. A forest development plan for the next period of 2020/2030 has already started. I think that there is a much better knowledge base for this development plan, so the climate aspects - LULUCEF - land use, land use and forestry - are also being called into question in addition to the issues of logging volumes and reforestation. Once again, I suggest you turn to the Earthleaf, for example, which I am reading and where I am writing. It presents our problems, particularly from this very point of view of carbon sequestration and emissions, so read this article thoroughly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U84	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned here before the good amounts of money that farmers have been given to rebuild the forest. But I'm asking if it's okay by itself. We know that the restoration of the forests is going to be very tough. Can't the reasons for this be somewhere else, for example, there aren't enough plants or there are other problems? Is it even possible to remove all obstacles by means of a new bill? What can be done to improve the restoration of the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U86	Thanks! You have certainly read the current version of the Forest Act as a respected member of the Riigikogu and, at the same time, as an interested forestry person. Reforestation does not necessarily mean planting trees, although it does. Indeed, the share of planting in state forests is currently higher than in private forests. However, a positive trend can be observed in private forests, i.e. people are willing to plant more. I agree with you that this is not at all just a matter of law and, if possible, more support should be provided through grants. The Environmental Board has carried out an audit or inspection in 2014. It should be noted that 94% of the private forests in Estonia have been renewed after logging, either naturally or through greater human intervention, i.e. by planting or sowing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U87	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U88	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that you have kept water bottles for some reason. We shared water here with all our colleagues earlier, but it was picked up. You mentioned, Minister, that there is no intention of cutting down a finer, younger forest. We are going to discuss here today a bill that will lower the age of logging. This means, however, that the forest will get thinner. When such statements of obvious doubt are made, it is difficult for us to take seriously the other figures that you are offering. The Postimees included an OECD report on environmental performance, which states that Estonia uses its forests most intensively in Europe, except Belgium, i.e. 91% in handling. However, it is acknowledged that in the event of a major statistical error, this figure may exceed 100%. Do you agree with OECD statistics? You're the one who named the other bill. Do you agree that if we're in statistics somewhere, we can actually exceed that one hundred percent?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U89	Thank you, good member of the Riigikogu! There is some time left until the first reading of the Forest Act, which I think is today's eighth or ninth item. I suggest you read this bill again and then see if the tree gets any finer under the law or not. As far as OECD statistics are concerned, I give you good advice: read the verbatim report after this Question Time, because before I answered the very same question of the gentlemen.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U90	Thanks for the answer! I'm finishing the round of registered questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U91	Since we have a little more time, I promise to ask Jürgen Ligi who went to ask the manager. It would be welcome if it were for our third minister, who is also here today to respond. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U92	I will also name the third minister, but I will still ask Jüri Ratas about the change in the tone of foreign policy. It's just a question of who's in charge. When you got Russia off the list of Syrian criminals in the Prime Minister's statement, you said that you personally did not do so. I also have data that may have been done by Mailis Reps, but how technically could she do it, I don't know. Today you responded to the statements made by your partymates Stalnukhin and Kariladi on sanctions for Russia. The debate on this issue was welcomed and the abolition of sanctions was supported. You also said, in response to Keit Pentus-Rosimnus, that you personally have not done so. But tell me, who is the Prime Minister and who is the chairman of the Centre Party? Who's running the process? You always talk about how you didn't do it in person. So there's an answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U93	Thank you, good questioner! The tone of Estonian foreign policy has certainly not changed. He's become, true, a gram stronger than the previous government. We all know that underfunding has been a serious issue in the External Action Service for years. The current coalition has said that the External Action Service must be significantly strengthened, not only in words but also in reality, in a budgetary way. I am very pleased that you are listening to my answer to what you asked for. In this sense, in order to give the External Action Service more strength, more weight, the current government certainly wants to take the next step compared to what the previous government has done. I am very pleased that we have reached such a point in Estonian foreign policy that all these 25 years of independence have been kept very strongly in one line. That's right. We have decided to join the European Union and now we can say that more than 77% of Estonians support it. We have decided to join NATO and we have also kept a clear line in fiscal policy. You yourself have also made a major contribution, for example, to the fact that we are currently in the euro zone. So we're definitely not changing the general direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U94	Thank you to the ministers for their answers and questions to the questioners. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U95	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the Wednesday session of the 9th working week of the V plenary session. It is now possible to pass on enquiries and drafts. Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of eight members of the Free Party, I will report an inquiry to Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson. This concerns the views of Nord Stream 2 and Gazprom and Estonia on them. The pipeline pipeline Nord Stream 2 proposed by Gazprom, a monopoly on natural gas exports from the Russian Federation, is a geopolitical project with questionable economic justification. The establishment of Nord Stream 2 is contrary to the European Union's energy strategy, which provides for the diversity of energy sources and the diversification of risks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U97	I'm sorry, Honourable Ain Lutsepp! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's necessary to add that there is a person in front of you who has an exceptionally suitable microphone voice, but even he has limits. Keep it down, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U98	I'll be fine, thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U99	Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U100	Estonia's previous governments have expressed a similar position. The fact that, on 21 March, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas and his office did not answer the questions of journalists was therefore astonished. We received a position on Nord Stream 2 from Ando Leppiman, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This position was as follows: "Estonia estimates that a significant increase in the market share of one supplier in the gas market in the European Union will reduce the diversity of sources of supply, increase the concentration of the market, which will have a negative impact on gas prices, and reduce the EU's energy security due to increased dependence on one supplier. " By agreeing to this, we expect clear political positions from the government. We have four questions on which we are hoping for clear and precise answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U101	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U102	Good vice chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, We will present an inquiry to Minister of the Environment Marko Pomerants. The State Forest Management Centre, or RMK, is a profit-making institution of the state. The government has set high requirements for RMK to implement the state budget. Several experts have analysed the conclusion that RMK will have difficulties in meeting the state budget requirements as of 2017. To alleviate the problems, the Forest and Nature Conservation Act will be amended again, which we will be working on today. The current law allows for larger felling volumes than is actually being exploited. The main problem as to why the actual cutting volumes are smaller is the low market price of wood. RMK is the largest forest owner who has been constantly interested in increasing cutting capacity. This has been achieved by reducing the standards laid down in the Forest and Nature Conservation Act since 2007 by the Ministry of the Environment. The volume of felling has been increased by law in 2009 and 2014. Under the leadership of RMK, logging has grown considerably. The more timber can be cut off, the more the market price of the timber will fall. This, in turn, is very beneficial for the timber industry. The volume of felling has grown exponentially, even beyond the understandable and cognitive boundary, which has increased society's awareness of the preservation of the forest as our common property. It is incomprehensible that, on the initiative of the Ministry of the Environment, we have gone against the law on sustainable development. On this basis, the questioners have six questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U103	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U104	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Eight members of the Free Party will present another question today. It is presented to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, and it concerns a state company that is very important to us all, such as Eesti Energia. As is well known, the government has convened a nomination committee, as the composition of the boards of state companies will continue to be appointed on other grounds. First of all, we are interested in whether these councils are being 'open', because they are now clearly inclined towards political parties in the coalition. We are interested in whether different functions are to be separated in Eesti Energia, i.e. energy production, mining, oil production, etc., and to bring something of them to the stock market. Finally, we are interested in the circumstances relating to the lower-than-expected productivity of the oil production plant Enefit280, the audits and confusion that have been around it, as well as the allocation by the Government of the Republic of Estonia of the Tootsi Suursoo area as a contribution in kind to Eesti Energia to increase the share capital, which is why things have come to court. We also want to know whether there are doubts that this could be illegal State aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U105	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U106	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Today Nikolai Gorohhov, a lawyer for the Sergei Magnitsky family, was to represent this family in Moscow in a court of law against the Russian state. The day before yesterday, he fell out of his fourth-floor window and was in a critical condition at the hospital. Last year, we remembered that, in a broad consensus here on 8 December, we adopted amendments to the law on the obligation to leave and refusal of entry, which laid down, among other things, the legal basis for imposing an entry ban on persons on the Magnitski list. Recent cases in Moscow show that the situation has not improved at all in the Magnitski case and other similar matters. It is generally the custom of Estonia not to comment on whether or not the persons are on the entry ban list, but we will present the following question to Minister of the Interior, Anvelt. Since we know that the Ministry of the Interior does not comment specifically on who is on the entry ban list, we will present to the Minister, on behalf of eight members of the Reform Party Group, a valid so-called Magnitski list with 35 persons. It also says exactly what someone has done. We ask whether there are any persons on this list that Estonia has not yet complied with the law or imposed an entry ban on them. If there are any, we ask how many there are and why there is no ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U107	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted four enquiries and the Management Board processes them on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 93 MPs participate in the meeting, no 8. Before we begin the debate on today's agenda items, I would like to ask the honourable EKRE ambassadors whether I understand correctly that you have procedural questions. If so, please, Mart Helme!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. The questions relate to an event that took place before Question Time. We put a bottle of Evgen water on the table of all delegates in support of the respected Minister for Labour and Health, in support of his fight against alcoholism. It was declared food and taken away. I now have the question: are the candy that many of us keep in these drawers also desecrations of the sacredness of this sacred hall, and should we not keep them there in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U109	This question can certainly be answered in many ways, but I will start by saying that it is probably a classic rather than a procedural question. If you have noticed, the Riigikogu Hall does not even produce draft laws or suggestions for amendments on your tables, only agendas are brought, not to mention cookies, ice cream or other such fine things. I agree, another time it will make our lives drink, why not the water you have brought. As an older colleague, I will kindly advise you: take advantage of the possibilities outside this hall in the faction, in the corridor, before you get into a taxi. I think it's gonna take a long day to get a good cup of tongue. [[Let's hear it.]] Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U110	I'm sure it will. Thank you. I have two questions, and they're still totally procedural. What rule was this water collected from here? As far as I know, yogurt has been distributed here in earlier formations and it has not been harvested. There's a bottle of water on the table, on the stand and on the ministerial table. It seems to me that there was a voluntarist act. I didn't understand the motivation. In fact, it was a really friendly gesture that should not cause anyone to despair and react as Maria Alajõe did.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U111	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U112	Thank you. I assume that the President of the sitting of the Riigikogu will be able to answer one procedural question submitted by Martin Helme, Chairman of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. If you do not want to answer one question, I will ask another question so that you can answer both in a compact manner. I repeat: based on the provision of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, it was decided to remove the water bottle from the tables. Your justification was that food and other items are prohibited in the Riigikogu Hall. Why is a bottle of water allowed on your table with plastic containers, and why is a bottle of water allowed on the ministerial table with plastic containers? Is this a deliberate violation of the law, or did you violate the law on home and working procedures? Please explain this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U113	These bottles were collected today because, at the time these bottles were on the tables, Maria Alajõe, director of the office, was here, and she reminded that there are several rules and established practices in this hall. Accordingly, he decided to collect these bottles. So this, and probably my first answer, is what I'm telling you right now. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As your older colleague, I can assure you that your first comment was very nice. Please don't let that bum in this hall and please don't let the bum in the microphones! Why don't we finish this, like you said at the beginning?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U115	Thank you. March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U116	Thank you. I absolutely agree with Mr Ligi, which is rare. But I'd remind the EKRE that glass is a weapon, and you can't bring guns into the hall. If the Madisons and Martin Helmed and Mart Helmed don't know it, let them watch movies cut their throats and cut their livers in half with glass.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U117	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U118	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. If this decision was taken by Maria Alajõe, Director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, who is still in office, in accordance with her authority and your consent, could I ask her to have all the candy boxes removed from the drawers and to remove the water bottle from your table in order to follow common rules and equality in this Chamber? We don't want inequality. Or in another case, perhaps you can give us an explanation of what kind of decision he made on the basis of the point of the Home and Working Procedures Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U119	I'm sure I'll talk to Mrs. Alajõe about this. As far as the sweets in the drawers are concerned, they are likely to be administered either before or after the hearing in this Chamber. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U120	Thank you. It is a pity that Mr Ligi is so unhappy with his colleagues and thinks that if they get a bottle of water in this room, they will start to spew. Or maybe, like the Centre Party found it might be a weapon. In this context, I ask: how did Alajõe come to such a result that ministers, unlike members of the Riigikogu, can liquefy and retain water bottles?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U121	The answer can still be the same as I have told you so far: only the agenda will be brought to our desks in this large hall. I would continue to recommend that other issues be dealt with outside the large hall. Ladies and gentlemen, Can we consider this question exhausted? [[???Saalist vastatakse: 'Jaa!'???]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U122	Let us begin the processing of today's agenda items. Gentlemen of the EKRE Group! I think we can ask a lot more questions here, but the answers and also the reaction from your colleagues are about the same. So I propose that we start working on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Securities Market Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act 359 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the political groups want to open negotiations? As this is not the case, the proposal of the lead committee is the final vote of 359 drafts. Let's start preparing the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since this bill requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership to be adopted as a law, please let us check the presence! There are 91 members of the Riigikogu, no 10. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and the Financial Supervision Authority Act 359 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U123	The next item is the second reading of draft law 347 on the amendment of the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (location of the legal person and its board of directors or the body replacing it). Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Commercial Code and other related laws 347 was at second reading on 13 March. Within the deadline, the Eesti Pank Association proposed an amendment. There was only one amendment to the draft proposal, which concerns the period of appointment of the contact person. Where the company has not designated a contact person, the registrar shall set a time limit for the appointment of a contact person which shall not be less than one month and not more than three months. If, within that period, the contact person is not appointed, the compulsory winding-up of the company or the removal of a foreign company from the register shall be followed. That was the content of the amendment. The following issues were briefly raised in the Commission's debate. It was noted that, according to the principles of the functioning of the business register, only the company can transmit data on the company itself, the business register can independently initiate a miscarriage and, if necessary, be practiced. A representative of the Ministry of Justice pointed out that the contact person can unilaterally terminate the contract of command, that is to say, its representation relationship, which also gives the opportunity to waive obligations. The question came from the Member of the Commission as to whether there would be an opportunity to take advantage of this situation. The adviser of the Ministry explained that the contact person is a passive representative of the company and its role is to receive documents addressed to the company and to transmit them to the company. The contact person shall not be entitled to enter into contracts on behalf of the undertaking. The fear that the contact person was not, for example, a contact person was also mitigated. In particular, the business register also contains information about the contact details of the members of the management board, as well as the company's obligation to publish its e-mail address in the business register. So there will always be the opportunity to contact the board member directly and double-check everything. It was decided to take full account of the amendment. It was proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda for the sitting on 22 March, that the second reading be closed and that the draft be sent to third reading when the second reading is completed by 5 April. For all the decisions, the Commission had a consensus. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U125	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. Tanel Winter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention briefly to the fact that this draft was not a small bureaucratic nuance, but we are still talking about e-residency, and this is, in my opinion, a very serious and important issue. If you have noticed, every week some foreign media publications reflect the topic of Estonian e-residency. This is one of the few things that transcends the news threshold of foreign media and shows Estonia in a good light abroad, apart from bringing NATO troops here. At the same time, I would remind you that the problem remains, for example, that banks operating in Estonia do not want to open bank accounts for companies established by e-residents registered in Estonia. Perhaps here too, it is possible to further adapt the Commercial Code. At the same time, I call for an overall look at the issue of e-Estonia, because e-residency is only one part of this whole big picture. I mean e-elections, for example. It is very important that we make this system even more secure, even more reliable and that the issue of e-elections should certainly go on, rather than making further obstacles to the development of this thing itself. The state reform, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that it will be possible to carry out successfully and effectively if we do not make a major leap in our e-services world. There are many problems here, too, with local authorities having serious difficulties connecting their databases and other things. We should also pay attention to this here, so that our local authorities do not fall back into the 'digital era'. So once again: I very much hope that we will at some point also take the e-Estonia issue into consideration here as a key national issue, and then we will be able to talk more about this big picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U127	Now we are going to the examination of the amendments. One amendment to the draft has been tabled. It was presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the position of the commission is to take full account of it. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 347. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U128	The next item is the second reading of the Bill 189 on the Amendment to the European Union Citizens' Act and the Equal Treatment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U129	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The second reading of this draft law was discussed on 16 March, including. In addition to the members and advisers of the Commission, guests were invited, the Social Secretary Rait Kuuse, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Nele Wheat, and Ruth Annus, Head of the Citizenship and Migration Policy Department of the Ministry of the Interior. This draft has been in the process for quite a while, since the spring of last year. The purpose of the draft is to transpose Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council into Estonian law. There were also additional provisions in the original version of this draft, which concerned other aspects of the Equal Treatment Act and raised a number of issues during the debate. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was informed that this Directive would have to be transposed by 16 April 2017. It does not have to enter into force by that date, but the law transposing the directive should have been adopted by that date. Otherwise, if the Riigikogu does not do so, there is a basis for initiating infringement proceedings, which cost Estonia quite dearly, more than 365000 euros. Therefore, the Commission had a choice whether to try to adopt this draft as it initiated and to discuss all the proposed amendments, or to restrict itself to transposing the Directive and to leave the remaining provisions to a later stage, i.e. to deal with them in the context of some other drafts. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs was unanimous that the most important thing now is the transposition of the directive. We can continue to deal with other provisions further. On the first version of the draft, the EKRE Group has put forward a number of proposals. Given that it is reasonable for us to change the basic text, we have proposed to the EKRE Group that our amendments be withdrawn and that they be retabled after the end of the second reading. So the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to interrupt the second reading. The EKRE Group agreed and therefore the EKRE Group's proposals have been withdrawn. Through its two proposals, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs formulated the new content of the draft. The first proposal then contains almost all of the new text. The second proposal concerns the entry into force of the law. The law was originally intended to enter into force on 21 May 2016, which is now excluded from the law because this deadline has expired. The draft is very technical in its current form. The Constitutional Commission took the following decisions by consensus: Firstly, it was proposed that the debate on this draft be put on the plenary agenda by 22 March, i.e. today. Ken-Marti Vaher, Jüri Adams, Annely Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits were on its side. The second proposal was to interrupt the second reading, which was a consensual decision taken with the participation of members of the same committee. Thirdly, it was proposed to set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 30 March 2017. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs therefore proposes that the reading of the draft be suspended after the amendments have been examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U130	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I will open negotiations if my fellow Members so wish. I'll close the negotiations without opening them. As the rapporteur mentioned to you, two amendments have been tabled. Both are from the lead commission and are fully taken into account. The commission's proposal is to interrupt the second reading of draft 189. I will set the deadline for tabling 189 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 30 March.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U131	The next item is the second reading of Bill 361 on Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U132	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Liquid Fuel Act was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 9 January 2017. The first reading of the bill in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 8 February 2017 and the first reading was completed. The draft provides for an obligation for suppliers of liquid fuel to include biofuels in petrol and diesel fuels. The aim is to meet the European Union's requirement, which obliges Member States to ensure at least 10% biofuel content in transport fuels by 2020. The draft provides for a step-by-step increase in the share of biofuels in the fuel used for transport so that the target can be reached by the time available. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft law amending the Law on liquid fuel 361 at its meeting on 13 and 14 March 2017, which reviewed the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration and made all procedural decisions on the draft. Rein Vaks, expert of the Energy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, took part in the meeting. Toomas Saks, Member of the Management Board of OÜ Orlen Siret Liivamägi, Member of the Management Board of Neste Eesti AS Ivar Kohv and Member of the Management Board of AS Krodi Terminal Kaido Renn were also invited to the meeting. All those who referred to the Commission were of the opinion that the time between the adoption of the law and its entry into force was too short for the addressees to be able to fulfil their obligations. The Estonian Oil Association proposed to postpone the introduction of the obligation imposed by law for a year. Neste Eesti AS expressed its support for the draft submitted to the Government both in its written position and orally at the meeting of the Commission and confirmed its willingness to comply with the obligation under the Act. The draft has been technically and linguisticly structured in the verbatim and translation department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, and changes resulting from the language editor's comments have been introduced into the text of the draft. The Commission had two proposals, both of which were voted on. The consensus decision was that it was wise not to rush or rush and the claims were postponed for one year. But ultimately, by 2020, we have met our conditions before the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U133	The first question to the rapporteur is asked by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U134	Honorable President! Respectable waitress! This explanatory statement, which you have read to us nicely now, does not quite understand whether everyone agreed that it would be wise not to rush and postpone claims for a year. Did Neste Eesti AS agree to this, or did they have a different view? Were they ready to comply with that requirement immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U135	The difference is that only Nestel has a winter fuel bio-addition. No other wholesale or retailer currently active on the Estonian market has it. And so that there would not be a situation on the Estonian market where one company had a monopoly and everyone else had to buy from it, the remaining fuel companies asked them to postpone the imposition of the requirement for a year so that they would also have this bio-addition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U136	No more questions for you. Would you like to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Let us examine the amendments. As announced by the rapporteur, there are two amendments. The first is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, and the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The second amendment was tabled by Aivar Kokk and the decision of the commission is analogous: take full account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of Bill 361. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U137	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Koka, Chairman of the Economic Commission for the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U138	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, We are going to the second reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 19 September last year. The first reading took place on 9 November and the deadline for submitting amendments was 23 November. No amendments were received at that time. During the procedure, the Committee on Economic Affairs addressed its proposals to a large number of parties involved in the electricity market and their activities, who proposed amendments to the draft or raised objections to the arguments set out in the letter of another applicant. Eesti Energia AS, FootonVolt OÜ, Eesti Taastuvenergia Koda, NGO Estonian Solar Power Association, World Energy Council Estonian National Committee, Estonian Forest and Wood Industries Association, Skinest Energia AS, Hõbeoja OÜ, AS Graanul Invest, Estonian Environmental Associations Koda (EKO), Estonian Environmental Law Centre, Estonian Power Stations and District heating Association, Party Estonian Greens, Estonian Wind Power Association, Wind Technology Association, Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Horizon Tselluloos and Paper AS. The representative of the initiator of the draft act communicated his views to the Commission on the proposals contained in the letters and the Commission, in turn, informed the Commission of those views. All those who referred to the Commission with their proposal had the opportunity, if they so wished, to meet with the rapporteur of the commission and to attend the meeting of the Commission on 7 March to present and justify their views. Some proposals were received from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the course of their work, and several proposals were formulated as a result of discussions at the committee meeting and in the working group. The preparation of amendments for discussion in the lead committee took place on 14 and 21 February in Commission working groups involving representatives of the initiator. The text of the draft was also editorially edited between the readings. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft at three meetings between first and second readings, on 6 February, 16 March and then one more time. There were also suggestions for improvement, and several of them have led to different ideas and perceptions in the meantime. As the debate on the draft has been so lengthy, some of the proposed improvements are aimed specifically at extending the deadline. The installers of solar panels and the companies investing in cogeneration plants were asked to postpone it for at least six months, so that everyone who has already started investing would reach the end of their investments. It was supported by consensus in the Commission. If otherwise the deadline had expired on 1 January 2018, it has now been agreed that it will be postponed to 1 July 2018. No company can then have a problem later that it has made a large-scale investment because it has known that such a law is currently in force. On the wind energy side, there was a request that the deadline be postponed for one year. Here we added the possibility that all wind farms wishing to build one, two or three more windmills could do so. While the wind farm still had 100 megawatts of power, according to the new draft it is 150 megawatts to give companies the opportunity to make additional investments in wind energy in the coming years, and the other way the Estonian state would have the opportunity to sell renewable energy through statistics trade. If the Riigikogu adopts the draft in this form, it is possible to create a revenue base of up to 60 million euros for Estonian business. And another subject that came up in the process of handling this bill. Until now, private homes were able to join a 15 kilovolatile device in a simplified way. However, we know that nearly 70% of the population live in apartment buildings and the rooftops of apartment buildings are so large that they can be accommodated in significantly larger solar panels with a capacity of up to 50 kilovolts. That is why there is a proposal for improvement that, under a simplified procedure, it is possible to add 50-kilowatt solar panels to its buildings. There is also an amendment to the bill that if the use of biomass is recommended in the statistics trade, it is possible to buy a maximum of 500000 cubic metres from Estonia without having to coordinate it with anyone. The reason is very simple. We see what's going on in the waste management. As Eesti Energia has no such direct obligation, it will be much more useful and cheaper for it to buy waste from somewhere else, i.e. garbage comes in with ships. The same thing would have happened to the wood. As you know, wood biomass is imported to England, for example, from South America; in Sweden, there is quite a lot of biomass from Africa. We have made such a clause that the permissible quantity is 500000 cubic metres, and it has been negotiated with all woodworking companies, small forest producers and also with the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment. That $500,000 was a number that was said not to be a problem. If the volume is higher, there could be problems, and that's why we've corrected the law. If, at first, the government decided on any number, it has now been said that 500000 is the amount that can be used for statistical trade sales. If the quantity is higher, the analysis shall be carried out and the analysis shall result in the Government either accepting or not accepting the addition. We know that if, for example, Eesti Energia now went into the trade in statistics, it would need 2.5 million tonnes of biomass. So in any case, even for the first cubic metre, he should ask the government for permission. It is likely that he would then go straight and take what he needed from outside; he would not start asking for more from Estonia. I would like to mention another important point here. Yesterday, some of the CHP companies were concerned about what Elering claims. Consider a specific example. The second block of the power plant is currently being built in Väos and Elering's claim was about such that if the second block was completed and the connection point was exactly where the first block was, it would not consider the amendment. Our amendment clearly states that every new building is also Väo's second block, if it is completed before 1st July 2018, it will be covered by this law. One state-owned company cannot read the law in any other way if it is read by members of the Economic Commission or by officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs who have responded tens of times very clearly, that under this law all those who build new parts that are completed before the deadlines set receive support according to the old system. In the case of wind energy, the deadline is 31 December 2020 and in the remaining cases, 1 July 2018. 31 December 2020 will also be the deadline for all of these private houses, apartment buildings and small businesses, to whom we are now giving the opportunity to produce 50 kilowatts of renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U139	The round of questions will be opened by Artur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U140	Good President! Good speaker! I still have no idea why, in the case of wind energy, the period during which completed wind farms receive support for renewable energy was extended by one year. Personally, it seems to me that this comes from the dispute between Eesti Energia and the so-called Tootsi wind farm. And because Eesti Energia receives support for renewable energy through its wind farm, this period has been extended for a year. Do you agree with this statement or reject it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U141	On the one hand, one could agree, because this wind farm is also one of them, which may emerge during this period. However, I would like to emphasise this other side here that, since we raised 100 megawatts to 150 on the side of the wind farm, it gives all wind farm developers the opportunity to use the same measure. I wouldn't have had that chance before. An increase in the percentage of renewable energy is very important for us, because oil shale production will, at any moment, decrease due to environmental pollution. All the opportunities offered by the increase in the share of renewable energy are very good. Today, on average, we are producing about 3.6% more than the European Union's demand, and we can now sell this in the statistics trade. The more chance there is, the better. And by 2030, conditions will change and numbers will increase. We have now set a target for 2020, but the target for 2030 is much more ambitious. I believe that you too, as a supporter of green energy, will find that this is a place where we must ensure that renewable energy production is more developed. However, if you specifically ask for one place, this extension for one year was not only a request from Eesti Energia, although Eesti Energia wanted it too. If you look at the material on this bill and the minutes of the meeting, it says, "I might be wrong by heart, but I think there were four or five-six organizations that asked for an extension." Throughout this debate, in which all the organisations involved participated, no one argued against extending the deadline for wind power for one year and for solar and cogeneration plants for six months. Just like they asked, we didn't put on another day. It is our wish that those entrepreneurs who have already started investing should not be punished at some point by the fact that there is a law amendment being made here in the Riigikogu at some point, which they have not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U142	Erki Savisaar, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President of the Commission. You guys talked about it in your speech, but for the sake of clarity, I'm gonna go over it. What about these new production blocks? For example, if an existing wind farm adds a new windmill or the same Väo builds a new production block and joins the grid through the same connection point that they have built, will they also be entitled to apply for support at the current rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U144	Yes, the legislator has expressed its wish very clearly with this draft. If this new block of the cogeneration plant is completed before 1 July 2018, they will receive support under the current rules, and in the case of windmills, it will be available until 31 December 2020. We have another clause here, if you're reading. As you know, there is always a problem with joining. Many entrepreneurs have pointed out the problem of wanting to do something, but the substation is nowhere to be completed. The bill includes a clause that the windmill must provide electricity and the cogeneration plant must provide electricity. But if, for example, Elering has not completed its substation by the time it is set, then it will also start receiving support under the current conditions from the moment the power reaches the substation. I think this is an important correction. It often happens that regardless of you, you can't power because the substation isn't ready.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U145	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U146	Good President! Good chairman of the committee! Has the annual extension of the operation of this scheme been accompanied by an analysis of the state aid? What were the results of the State aid analysis, if any?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U147	Thank you, very good question! After the second reading, when we finish the second reading today, this bill goes to the Council of the European Union. Only if there is an answer that none of the questions you have referred to will the bill go to the third reading. If it is said that there is State aid here somewhere and it is said what point it is, the draft will go back to the Commission and it will all start again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U148	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Bill 290 amending the Electricity Market Act is undoubtedly a major step forward. We all remember the time when, here years ago, just before the elections, such decisions, as we know, are sometimes carried out feverishly, were decided on a relatively rigid basis to support renewable energy at EUR 53.7 per megawatt-hour. This was quite a much debated rate of support. All kinds of charges fell on politicians. And looking at our economic situation, maybe that's questionable. On the other hand, it triggered quite a significant amount of renewable energy production, giving it a very strong boost. Now we are in a situation where we really have met the 2020 targets, but we have to admit that this rate of renewable energy support of EUR 53.7 per megawatt-hour has survived its time. That is actually what the European Union's regulations say, according to which the State aid permit for such support was 1 January, so pay attention now! in 2015 We already have this bill for reading in the hall from 19 September last year. We have been working on this for quite a long time, but, unfortunately, during this period, we have not been able to achieve that the State aid permit is already known in advance. Now we are in a situation where we have to wait between second and third readings for 'coordination' with Europe. All this time, when this issue has been dealt with together, it has actually been discussed for seven years, and companies have been in a very precarious situation. I don't know what's gonna happen, what's gonna happen. Such uncertainty should be brought to an end. In this respect, this bill, as I said, is a very big step forward. The good thing here is, for example, that renewable energy will be bought through less offers. This is also a recommendation from the European Union, and we must show the European Union this transitional period. This draft now provides for transitional periods. But there is a pretty important concern about this that Artur Talvik has already expressed in his questions. We have always treated renewable energy support as technology neutral, whether it is biogas, biomass or wind, although the investment needs of these energy sources vary, with different options. The wind is the most profitable of them, it is the most updated area and it is as if it needs the least support. In other parts of the world, where there are already fewer offers for renewable energy, the rate of support is not, I repeat, not 53,7, but in Denmark, for example, is 15. Renewable energy could certainly now be purchased on the market at EUR 20 to 30 per megawatt-hour. And this is particularly clearly the case with wind. Therefore, we cannot accept that, if we have otherwise dealt with different sources all the time 'technology-neutral', now we are making a very clear choice: we prefer wind energy, giving here a three-year transitional period. If we salute the truth, the situation is really such that only the Tootsi wind farm belonging to Eesti Energia, or the state, is ready to expand and invest. Environmental studies take time. And once we are in a situation where this 12-year-old support can only be obtained by a wind farm owned by a state company, it is not a sensible course of action. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U150	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U151	Let us now imagine that the most recent wind farm was completed in 2012. This means that there will be no more wind farms in 2024 that will receive this great support. Maybe there's a few more coming from somewhere, but the odds are pretty low. Imagine now that up to 2033 a large amount of support, excessive support is being paid out of the pockets of our energy consumers and paid to the state company. The second issue is that, in view of the freedom of competition, I believe that this is perhaps an even more complex issue if, for example, the same company is sold on the market. Then we have created a situation where the cash flow from the state comes to a company that is privatized. And this is an even more unpleasant violation of the principle of freedom of competition. In fact, we should look at this in order to achieve a win-win situation that increases market freedom, increases freedom of competition and lower consumer prices. That would be a win-win situation. There is certainly a very important principle that contributes to the fall in consumer prices, which is why it is very urgent to legitimise the trade in statistics by processing this draft. Statistics trade would also enable our renewable energy to be boosted by taxpayers' money from other countries, that is, the line that is on the renewable energy bills of all consumers will no longer come out of the pockets of our consumers, but from the pockets of taxpayers in Luxembourg or any other country. That's definitely the positive side. But the draft we are discussing is, I repeat, the question of technology neutrality. It would be wise to give exactly the same transition period for wind energy. There is another question that may also give rise to a situation in which we need to come back to this law. This is what the chairman of the committee said here too, because it is not very clear at the moment, it is not quite a clear question of 'addition' or'replacement' of equipment. The same example of Väo CHP plant. Therefore, it is not at all excluded that we must come back to the draft for the sake of both State aid authorisation issues and a lack of legal clarity. And it's getting closer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U152	Honourable Riigikogu! Here I take advantage of the President's privilege of taking a break. We'll continue our work in ten minutes, 3:12 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U153	Let's continue the negotiations. Any more calls? Doesn't look like it. I will close the negotiations and go to the examination of the amendments. Six amendments to the draft have been tabled. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The second amendment has also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. The third amendment, tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, is the position of the lead committee to take full account of. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the position of the commission is fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 290. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U154	The next item is the second reading of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment. I ask for a presentation by Rainer Vakra, Chairman of the Chair of the Environment Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U155	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is recalled that the purpose of supplementing this law is to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution and to alleviate the situation of landowners who have privatised their land with a post-tax payment from the State and that the State has subsequently imposed intensive conservation restrictions on their land. The draft was initiated by the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu on 19 January 2017. The first reading took place on 14 February 2017 and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 1 April. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. However, the Committee on the Environment itself made one amendment. This amendment reads as follows: 'If the owner of the immovable property is indebted to the payment of mortgage payments, the suspension of payment is permitted if a payment schedule has been concluded and the debt is paid on the basis of this payment schedule before the suspension of payments. ' At its meeting on 14 March, the Committee on the Environment decided to put the draft on the Riigikogu's agenda for the second reading of 22 March 2017, also to propose that the second reading be stopped and, if the second reading of the draft is completed, to refer the draft to a third reading. All these decisions were taken by the Committee on the Environment in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U156	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Do you want to take the floor? I don't recommend it. I'm closing the negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. One amendment to the draft has been tabled, it has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment and the position of the commission is to be taken fully into account. We have examined the amendment. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 373. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U157	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation on behalf of the initiators of the speech chair, Minister of Environment Marko Pomerants!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U158	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! So here he is, the draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act. You have been presented with a draft law amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act, drawn up in cooperation with other ministries and stakeholders, for inspection under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment, and the most important amendments to which we wish to encourage the use of alternative cuttings and selective cuttings, and to reduce the harvesting age of the spruce of individual types of fertile growth sites. In addition, the law substantially extends the scope of protected noble habitats and contributes to better governance through changes to the forest register. The last major debate on forestry in this hall took place in 2011 when the Forest Development Plan until 2020 was approved. In the Ministry of the Environment, we have based this document on forest policy. The debate on forestry in the last half of the year in society has been passionate, but also instructive, which will allow us to take the lessons learned into account when drawing up the next development plan. I am thinking in particular of the development of the circle of forest lovers. As the topics of the discussions on forestry have been considerably wider than the legislative changes that I will introduce to you today, I think it is necessary to mention some of the most important ones. The protection and use of Estonian forests is based on sustainable forestry indicators agreed in Europe and the UN. According to these criteria, logging must not exceed growth in the long term in order to ensure the sustainability of forestry while being acceptable in the short term. The cutting of Estonian forests is characterised by a fluctuating trend: during some period we use significantly less wood than it grows annually, and in some years we have reached the limit of annual growth. For example, according to the recently published OECD report, the ratio of our logging to growth in economic forests was 91% in 2014, while in 2007 it was 47%. The Forest Act sets out the framework to ensure both the protection of forests and the conditions for their use. Today's forestry is directed not only at banning and commanding, but also through taxes and subsidies, and increasingly through advice to forest owners. The volume of felling and the decision of the forest owner are influenced by the local economic environment, the price on the timber market and the owner's personal attitude towards the forest. In a situation where approximately 65% of the volumes of forest use agreed in the Riigikogu are used as an average during the period 2011 to 2020 there is no reason to create additional restrictions on the use of the resource for forest owners, but to support them in making the right decisions. In society, perhaps the most passionate part of the law is the savageness of spruce. This is a specific problem in the fertile growth areas of the economic forest. The felling age established by the current law does not always allow the use of sprucees of fertile bonite classes of economic forests at an optimal age. As a result, the productivity of stands declines and root and trunk rot deteriorates the quality of the wood. Currently, the spruce to be cut must be at least 80 years old. The draft would allow the cutting age to be 60 years in the 1A bonite class and 70 years in the 1st bonite class. For the forest owner, there is a big difference between getting a log from his forest and just the firewood that the trunk rot changes trees for. It is also important to know here that, according to the forest register, there will be an additional possibility of logging on nearly 4200 hectares, or less than 0,2% of Estonian forests. Clear cutting and its toleration is something that many people do not want to come into close contact with. Forest owners also have a lot to do here. For example, RMK has committed itself this year to informing municipalities and the border neighbour of the settlement regions about planned logging works. In the interest of communities, the options for suitable forestry work and the use of economic techniques which least disturb local people's way of living shall be discussed. With legislative changes, we are taking a step closer to encouraging the use of other cutting methods, in particular security and selective cutting, alongside clear cutting. The wider use of these types of logging by forest owners has a less favourable effect on the natural environment and creates less conflict in society. In addition to creating, supporting and advising better opportunities for forest owners, the state is also actively engaged in the protection of natural values. According to what was agreed in the forestry development plan, we have also set out to strictly protect the forest areas needed to preserve the good condition of endangered species and those that are characteristic of Estonia in 10% of the forest land. As Minister of the Environment, I have decided to allocate an additional 27000 hectares to cover the strict protection of the forests of the grove and the land. The respective areas have been found on state land and RMK has stopped forest management there. As a result, approximately a quarter of forest land can already be covered by forests that are strictly protected in state forests. The amendments to the Forest Act allow protection in all areas corresponding to the concept of a noble habitat and are primarily based on ecological values, not on the size of the site or its location outside protected natural objects. The changes remove the current size limit of 7 hectares, and precious habitats in protected areas are also considered to be valuable habitats. In addition to state countries, the protection of valuable habitats is made compulsory on the countries of legal persons governed by public law. New forestry targets will soon be set for a 10-year period, i.e. a forestry development plan for 2021 to 2030. The mapping of the problem areas for the development plan has already started. This is followed by ordering and carrying out background studies and looking for solutions. As well as good practice on inclusion, new objectives and solutions will be discussed with all stakeholders, representatives of the forestry working groups involved so far and additional stakeholders will be invited. This time, we intend to pay particular attention to the involvement of stakeholders and civil society organisations that have so far looked aside from the development of forestry. In the run-up to the Riigikogu, we plan to bring the draft development plan in 2020. To conclude, although there is no need for man in the forest, today's society has an increasing need for forest and its benefits. In order to provide all of this, it is appropriate to better protect the forest, but also to manage it in a modern way. The amendments to the Forest Act have been designed with both objectives in mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U159	There are also many questions for the rapporteur. Külliki Hatter first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U160	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Let me start with a comment. Would it be possible to write amendments and explanations in the language of the common people, so that the legislator, who is not familiar with the subject being discussed on a daily basis, can understand what is being changed? That is why I am asking for clarification of Amendment 13. Does this proposal remove the so-called chessboard effect, where clear cutting cannot be done within a limited area, but, figuratively speaking, one forest squad must remain on the next cutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U161	We need to see what the explanatory memorandum says about this. 'Section 13 gives the possibility to carry out an innovative logging activity on the basis of a forest protection expert report in areas where no inventory data are available. According to the current wording, existing inventory data are necessary for the disposal of trees killed by natural disasters. However, a natural disaster may also damage parts of the forest which are not covered by current inventory data. In order to receive investment support for forest development and improvement of the viability of forests under measure 8 "Improving the development of forest areas and the viability of forests', the requirement that forest damage and forest restoration aid may be applied for in respect of forest land for which inventory data are recorded in the forest register remains valid. '
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U162	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U163	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Can you explain in more detail how the size classes of the permitted felling volume are calculated? I specify: does this calculation take account of felling volumes by species, such as spruce or spruce, or is it calculated in some third way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U164	Thanks! For example, in the case of state forests, the Minister for the Environment has issued a corresponding regulation, where felling volumes are presented by tree type: so many pine trees, so many spruce trees, so many birches, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U165	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U166	Thank you, esteemed performer. Everything's going to be fine, what you're talking about. Everything is so nice, the forest is evolving and the forest management is evolving, etc. But please tell me, what has resulted from this massive protest against forestry policy in society? Let's start with Mr Mikita's books, movements, pickets and articles that you read and hold on to what happens to the Estonian forest. Have these noble intentions not been explained to society, or what is the matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U167	Thanks! If I could appreciate all this fairly, I could answer you. I myself am a great admirer of Mikita's books, but with all that about feeling and faith, it is very difficult to find arguments or to enter into some sort of debate. I can rely on real parameters, measurement results and development plans. And they don't have that kind of problem. But once again, I can't even tell you what a rational solution here is. After all, we saw in Question Time today that the members of the Riigikogu understand one or the other shearer very differently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U168	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U169	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! In essence, Amendment 22 states that if a number of owners have land side by side, clear cutting can still be done in a very large area according to this law. We imagine that one has, for example, seven hectares, seven hectares on the other side, seven hectares on the third side, and so on. What is the limit? What is the greatest possible clear-cut area under this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U170	Thanks! The reason for this change is due to a real situation where a border neighbour has submitted a forest notification but does not actually make cutting. Therefore, the second border neighbour cannot do his planned cutting, but must wait for his neighbour. Here, in the course of discussions, the so-called costaires have also suggested the possibility that perhaps there should be some number of times when a forest statement may be submitted without being cut. We shall see how these debates go in the Committee on the Environment. The draft law has been drafted on the basis of the assumption that, under this new regime, the average length of cutting will be 1.5 hectares and no such large open masses will be created.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U171	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Cutting down the forest will certainly fuel the passion, and it will also be an objective and adequate response. But is it true that in recent years there are problems in Estonia with the reception of plants in order to restore the value that our country and its people have? These signals have come from several places. Will anything be done about this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U173	Thanks! The situation varies between state forests and private forests. The State Forest Management Centre grows the necessary number of plants ahead and private forest owners acquire them either from Estonia or from outside under market conditions. Indeed, we are reaching or reaching a situation where there is a shortage of plants, in other words, the desire to renew the forest through planting is greater than the opportunity to get plants. What are the odds? Definitely contributing Estonian timber producers to this because the clientele appears to exist. Of course, forest renewal subsidies will also contribute here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U174	Einar Vallbaum, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U175	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! I already got the answer to the last question from the questioner. I had the same kind of question: Are there any plants? How many plants do we have, and who controls them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U176	Thanks! There is a ministerial decree on the type of timber to be imported, where these requirements are set out. This geographical area has been reduced, if I remember correctly, it is limited to two degrees latitude. So we are approaching a situation where Lithuanian plants should not reach the Estonian market. There is also a transitional period, not overnight. After that, the afforestation should be done primarily with the timber of Estonia itself or in the surrounding area. That thing is regulated, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U177	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U178	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You also touched on the renewal of the forestry development plan. In yesterday's TV show, Tarmo Tüür expressed about the fact that we have the spruce in clear overcutting and the 15 million cubic metres limit that is in the forestry development plan must be changed. Have you considered changing that line? Looking at how much is being cut now, it seems that the border is too wide.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U179	Thanks! As regards the period up to 2020 of this development plan, I am more than sure that there is no reason to talk in any way about realising the potential 15 million cubic metres of felling, and there are no assumptions. I guess that's about 10 million or a little bit. As far as cutting by species of wood is concerned, it is still the pine that is being cut most, because this tree is the tree that we have the most. But I am sure that, in the context of the next forestry development plan, apart from the overall objective, i.e. the overall volume of felling, we will also look more closely at what is already the subject of cutting by species of wood.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U180	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U181	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In your report, you said that we have a good and right relationship between forest growth and felling volume. Kaido Kama says in his article, on which you and I have already exchanged thoughts in Question Time, that this argument, which the younger forest, the greater the increase, could lead to absurdity that if the 20.30-year-old forest was cut down, it would be like the ratio between growth and cutting capacity. The author's concern is that the old forest will end once and for all. After all, the main point of his article was that we are already chopping the forest at the expense of future generations. In Question Time, due to a lack of time, you could hardly say that you disagree with the author's views. We have a little more time now. Would you be willing to expand your claim and say what you think Kaido Kama is wrong about and open your mind a little bit further?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U182	Thanks! I don't think there's any reason to expect a 20 to 30-year-old forest to be cut. Still, mature forests are cut, based on how they mature in time. After all, the country also has an overview of the age at which we have stains. And once again, if you give me this example of the management of state forests, you will generally be cut at such a rate that in a hundred years, the state forests will be circled. So I don't know how to worry about it for the simple reason that there is no plan to start child trees, about how Kaido Kama calls them a separate harvester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U183	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U184	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! On the previous question, I don't think either of us understood what we were talking about and where we came from. I referred to forest protection experts. In my opinion, the draft increases their capacity and importance. What, then, is their effect on the felling? My second question I want to ask now is this: does Amendment 6 confirm the fact in the regulations that a self-employed forest enterprise no longer qualifies as beneficiaries of private forest measures? As far as I know, there are over 101000 of them, and only 7600 of them are members of forest cooperatives. Does this change confirm this practice that self-employed forest enterprises are excluded from the list of beneficiaries?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U185	Thanks! I will answer the question on both sides. Indeed, when it comes to the first answer, we talked about different things. I'm gonna try and orientate it now. I gradually tried to do it before, but I'm not like women who can do two things at once, i.e. focus on a number of questions and answer them at the same time. But we'll probably be able to overcome this shortage in time. As far as this particular issue is concerned, on the one hand, the fact is that the number of members of forest cooperatives has increased considerably over time, and that is why we really want to create a situation where forest owners belong to forest cooperatives. They benefit from this for a number of reasons. This is where they get the knowledge. Secondly, which is also very important, it will certainly contribute to the growth of these revenues through common marketing opportunities. The second question was whether we would forever perpetuate this situation. I don't know what to say. The current wording of the proposal certainly also relates to the extent to which resources can be channelled into this area. I rather dare say that it is not meant to remain so in the future. We must look at the developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U186	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U187	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue with Mr Leng's question. By driving through Estonia, we can all see these clear cutting poles. Does the State Forest Management Centre or the Ministry of the Environment have an overview of the percentage of forest land that is orientally affected by clear cutting in the last ten years? Has that percentage increased or decreased? What are the trends, and how much of this forest land is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U188	Thanks! Again, in order not to confuse things, I say that the main type of felling is indeed the cutting of innovation, the clear cutting. The rest of the felling species are outnumbered. A clear cutting is also what a person notices. If there's something good done somewhere, it doesn't really realize it's there. So, yeah, first and foremost, there's a cutting-up. The data's on the state, but I don't have that snip right now, so it's gonna take some time to find the data.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U189	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U190	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Perhaps you could not answer Mr Leng's question as to why there was concern about deforestation. Can one cause, for example, that forest growth will increase as the rules change? When the previous rules were talking about 5,6 cubic metres per hectare per year, it has now turned into 6.7 cubic metres. Can't one thing that causes trouble be that the laws change? If we're talking about a few trees being planted in private forests, maybe it wouldn't be worth blaming the owners and dropping it off on television, besides when there's a shortage of plants.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U191	Thanks! There are two things I can say. I didn't accuse private forest owners, first of all. Second of all, I didn't do it on TV last night either. The second aspect is that I believe that today we have reached a situation with national forest statistics where we have no reason to talk about any change in methodology. It must be based on what we have in the context of 2015. And I think that in the next few years, we'll be able to follow that same logic. In any case, this is a situation where growth in economic forests is also higher than felling volumes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U192	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U193	Thank you. It seems to me that the skis have crossed between the parties and the passions have gone up very high because this debate is still very thick and chopper-centred. As was repeatedly emphasised in the national broadcasting programme yesterday, the forest is not only solid meters but is a much wider, comprehensive natural environment, an ecosystem. I think that the question, which still remained unanswered in today's introductory presentation, is how these values will be assessed in the future. And this answer does not have to be, and must not be, simply emotional, but is still based on the views and opinions of naturalists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U194	Thanks! For me, as Minister for the Environment, the necessity and nature of all values is very clear. By the way, if you read the Forest Act, it is a pure law, then forest protection also applies to forest management. Sounds kind of absurd, but that's the way it is. If we are talking about the existence of economic forests and, on the other hand, we are talking about the existence of protected forests, the area of 10% is still out of forests with strict restrictions and restricted zone regimes, then we have a quarter of forests protected. It is designed to preserve biodiversity for future generations. And in this respect, in the light of the law under discussion, another addition of 10 per cent has been made, not just as a single indicator, but as a single indicator of forest species in Estonia, 10% of all forest types should have been preserved on the surface for future generations. From there they also add 27000 hectares to the total of both the forest and the salumes. As regards the consumption of ecosystems, I think that this talk will become modern in Estonia in two or three years' time. When we talk about, I don't know, birds' song, mushrooming, exhilaration or resting opportunities, it's certainly not limited to the territories of the protected nature. The economic forest can be very successful in gathering mushrooms, resting, and engaging in other activities. So, according to Estonian law, it is possible for people to enter the state forest in daylight and to see what is actually happening there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U195	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U196	Thank you, good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I would like to congratulate you. I'd like to congratulate the Minister and the Ministry of the Environment for bringing the Forest Act into this hall. This has led to a much wider debate in society than the scope of this law requires, but you have not withdrawn this draft after the first reaction, as it is, unfortunately, often symptomatic for today's government. Everything will be taken back quickly, and then they'll come out with them again. But my question is that around 3 million cubic metres of roundwood are being transported out of Estonia. What can we do, what can the legislator do to make this timber deserve on the ground in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U197	Thanks! I'm gonna use about 25 seconds to respond to Mrs. Keit Pentus-Rosim. There are still many things in the forest that people cannot see or understand with their eyes. That's all the biodiversity that doesn't fit the horizon and maybe is somewhere underground. I'm sure skilled people will have to stand up for that, too. But now to your question, Mr Mälberg. It can be done that timber on the spot will be deserved, or added value will be created in Estonia instead of the export of raw materials, once again earning a terrible amount of tax revenue that should not be from the devil, creating jobs and increasing our national wealth. And as I understand it, there are entrepreneurs in Estonia who keep such plans, based on all the legislation that somehow covers these plans in the field of the environment. It would be nice to get to that opportunity. What does that mean? On the basis of an environmental impact assessment, it is necessary to first reach reasonable location solutions and beyond with the best technology available at present, to really build a company that would allow this production to be earned locally. Once again, we do not want to scare people by the fact that we now need to bring this wood out of Estonia's forests. This roundwood or paperwood, which is currently going out, must be deserved in Estonia. Of course, there may also be import requirements, but this means that timber is delivered from somewhere outside Estonia's forests, such as Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U198	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U199	Good President! Good minister! Unlike the previous speaker, of course, I do not recognise you, but I recognise that you are also partly in the fork and linked to the development plan that was adopted in 2011. It kind of puts you in a state of compulsion. But the reason I don't accept you is because you don't give specific answers. I asked before about Amendment 22, which makes it very clear that the size of clear cuttings can still be very large. You said yes, the average felling is 1.5 hectares. But if you put a lot of bigger sheets next to each other, the areas the size of several airports can be cut open. So what is the maximum ceiling for clear cutting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U200	Thanks! I owe you that answer right now, but I'm sure I'll answer you. As far as a fork or something else is concerned, I have a very simple principle in my work and life: knowledge and today's scientific achievements must be taken into account. If there are higher education institutions in Estonia that teach the relevant specializations, I think there are two options: either to complete the admission to these specializations or to use this knowledge. The other one's a better one. The Estonian University of Life Sciences has been the flagship in forestry. As far as ecological aspects are concerned, the circle is much wider, including, for example, the University of Tallinn, which was recently regarded as simply a higher education institution producing teachers. They also have their own Institute of Ecology. Researchers from the University of Tartu have also contributed to this same forestry bill. This bill has reached this Riigikogu because the people who have been at the debate table have accepted it. The current chairman of the Estonian Nature Foundation has been at this table, for example, as well as the renowned scientist and ecologist of the University of Tartu, Asko Lõhmus. This bill has not come here simply as a result of some kind of tantrum or, I don't know, any political combinations. Indeed, there have been people at the table with whom we have discussed what changes can and cannot be made, what compensation should be, etc. In the context of the six harvest age, ecologists recognise the existence of this problem and say that it needs to be resolved, but we have a need for protection in the forests of the grove and the woods, and therefore 27000 hectares must be granted additional protection. This process, as we promised, has begun.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U201	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U202	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Yesterday, on a program already mentioned, there was such information that forest renewal subsidies have fallen from two million to one million. You, too, referred in your speech to the fact that if there are no plants, they would not normally be enough for private forest owners, because the state would be able to grow them according to how much it would cut down. Is it a conscious policy that private forest owners are deprived of certain support, and that is precisely in the most difficult area of forest renewal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U203	Thanks! The answer is no. But I guess he's kind of a complex of different circumstances in his nature. On the one hand, the Environmental Investment Centre's resources have also decreased. Okay, well, not the RDP resources. It's on the one side. On the other hand, as far as the lack of vegetation is concerned, no good mechanism has been found to ensure that these plants are produced in sufficient quantities for the market. On the one hand, forest owners are not prepared to make advance contracts over a longer period and, on the other hand, local timber producers have not been prepared to increase their production, perhaps after that. There are several aspects. More money would help, of course. And I'm sure it's a subject that they're coming back to at one point. So there's no such thing as harassment of a well-informed private forest owner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U204	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U205	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think we all understand here that the efficiency of forestry helps to fill our state budget to an outstanding extent. Among other things, RMK's revenues have been strongly increased by the state. In order to put this draft and the whole discussion into context, I ask this question: can you provide us with an overview of how much of RMK's owner's income has been planned for the coming years, let's say, the end of this same forestry development plan in 2020, year-on-year to the revenue side of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U206	I answered it in briefing. At the moment, I have lost this scrapper, but according to memory, the next two years will have a size of EUR 30 million and then it will return to somewhere else by 2021 with a size of 18 to 20 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U207	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will continue on the subject of plants. For example, if the Võrumaa forest cooperative ordered 104000 plants in 2014, 275000 have already been booked this year and they are said to be currently missing 60000 per month. If we can't plant as much as we can when we cut down the forest, then we're not gonna bring back as much of the forest as we should. Can the state at all support or should it support in any way to ensure that there is enough of these plants?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U209	Thanks! The simple answer is yes. And that's what the country does. As I have answered Mr Kruus here, the range of questions is much wider: the willingness of one party to book in advance and the willingness of the other party to advance. The third circle is also linked to whether these missing plants should then be grown by RMK and at what price, since it is a large organisation and therefore the most effective one. The question arises as to why this private plant grower should make an effort when RMK is finally able to sell this material at a very different price in spring and therefore to break the market. Basically, it has always been the case that RMK grows for itself and then leaves it to private growers. So the answer is yes, it has to. If you read the Forest Act, the natural regeneration of the forest is also considered to be a reforestation. Indeed, the aim is to grow this percentage to 40% by planting in private forests, but natural renewal is also a renewal. It is controlled in Estonia by the Environmental Board. The last time in 2014 there were more extensive controllers, which can be said to have resulted in 94% of the private forests of Estonia where the innovation was to be done, regardless of how it was done. And certainly, when it comes to natural renewal, then again, this forest owner's wisdom is the place, whether he lets that hardwood operate on its own, or whether he is going to maintain his forest, which is also a very difficult, difficult and costly undertaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U210	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U211	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am delighted with you that there is a rural university in Estonia, there is forest science and there are good naturalists and ecologists. I also welcome the fact that there is a multiplicity of opinions among them. I have just received a lot of letters from naturalists with a question on which the shortening of the felling age of spruce trees to 60 years is still based. It sounds like a revolution in the laws of nature. They do not want to accept it in any way and do not want to say that shortening logging age is very good. They don't think the tree's ripe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U212	Thanks! So I'll also talk a little bit about what I like and what I don't like about Estonian scientists. In fact, I would like to see the Estonian University of Life Sciences, for example, let people now listen attentively, if there is a faculty or chair or how it is organised in modern times, there would be a lot of opinions. But at one point, when things have been discussed, it should come out with a 'common opinion', where these different opinions have been taken into account. I'd like that in a lot of opinions. The university flag will then be kept high and all beautiful aspects, both economic and ecological, will be taken into account. This is the kind of Estonia I would like to reach. But now the spruce. As well as agricultural land, forest land is known to be divided into different classes of bonite or fertility. They start from 1A there, and then they come from 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. And the logic is that the larger the number, the worse the land, or tree, will take more time to grow, and the result in the form of the forest will be lousy. Now, how are the spruce classes 1A and 1? This is primarily the former agricultural land on carbonate soils, where the pre-war field is replaced by the forest, in particular, probably due to the fact that conventional farming has ended due to human intervention. There will be a situation where soil fertility is very good and trees reach fullness in terms of their diameter by 60 years of age, but can be cut by the current agreement at the age of 80. There would be no problem at all, but that in the meantime, various diseases can enter the tree. Juice is a classic example. Ivari Padar promised to invite all the owners of forests suffering from a root shower to a cafeteria for a group of friends. The value of wood simply falls in that 20 years. And as I have said, in 80 years, a good bonite from a spruce will only be firewood, but if you cut it 20 years earlier, it would be valuable construction material. Helme Jr. said in Question Time that now that this age is brought to 60 years, some fine trees will be cut. This isn't right. By the age of 60, the tree gets a 26-centimeter chest diameter, maybe in some of the thinner woodland types in 80 years. But the owner sees his wood lose its value in 20 years. This situation was, is and will remain in the economic forests, so there is no heureka here. Once again, the ecologists of the University of Tartu recognize the nature of the problem, but they say that something must also be returned to nature, and there comes 27000 hectares of grove forests and forests.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U213	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U214	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In an article on forestry, in a newspaper that you do not read, but which is sometimes referred to you, the journalist Nils Niitra compares environmental ministers and their periods of office. He says that forest protection at the front line was in 2003-2006. Villu Reiljan. In his day, the laws were tightened. There followed a short period of Rein Randver's ministering and then the next environmental ministers came from the Reform Party for a long time. According to Niitra, the national approach to forestry, under the leadership of the Reform Party, became sawy-centred. You've been in office for two years now and probably two more years. How do you think your term of office will be reflected or named later? What would you at least like to call it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U215	Yeah, I'm looking forward to it. I also have a very different view of different people, of professionals. But I'm looking forward to it. I follow the following principles in my day-to-day work: I do it with my heart, I follow, as I have said, the scientific achievements of Estonia, and I take all things seriously, but always with joy. How it's going to be consolidated now, so we'll both find out someday.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U216	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U217	Good manager! Good minister! I was happy to note that you mentioned Asko Lõhmus as an expert in forestry who has been involved in this bill. You are probably aware that in December 2016, Asko Lõhmus and Raul Rosenvald, who are also one of the forestry men of the University of Earth, published a rather destructive article in Postimees entitled 'The Ministry of the Environment hides unsustainable logging'. There are a number of all kinds of complaints about how different methodologies provide an opportunity to play with statistics. I'm not gonna say it all over again. Has this criticism now been taken into account in the Ministry? It says, for example, that a sustainable fell would only cut 70% of the increase. According to official statistics, we cut more than 90%, although I think in the last year 60%, as you said, or 55%. How about now, is there peace in the house?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U218	Thanks! I can only repeat myself: there is one official statistics in Estonia, Estonia's national forest statistics, and it must be based on this. As I said to your colleague Aru, thoughts are a very nice thing in many ways, but perhaps it would be very sensible if people in this field were to try to reach a common understanding between themselves of what is still wrong with this methodology or whether there is really something to be done with it, and then they would come up with these thoughts. I can take the view that, in the context of 2015 at least, we have correct forestry statistics comparable to those of other countries. I communicate freely with both citizens, regardless of what opinions they represent, and they are specialists in their field of expertise. The last time we did or planned an engagement event on 3 March, Mr Rosenvald also said that he would be happy to be in touch.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U219	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U220	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Maybe my question comes out of your ministry's administration a little bit, but I'm still asking. A fairly high percentage of wood is still going to be exported in round wood, i.e. it has not been processed or deserved. Do you think the problem is that our industry is not at this level, is not going to make progress with cutting, or is it the price policy or something else? It would be very important if we could reduce the export of roundwood.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U221	Thanks! I agree with you. What have been the reasons? I dare to assume that this is a very large investment, the makers of which do not walk around much here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U222	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U223	Good manager! Good minister! The purpose of this bill is to make more sustainable use of the production potential of forest land. Sixes are under enough pressure as it is, and reducing felling age makes this pressure even greater. You're saying you're gonna have to take 270 square miles of protection to trade. So how many spruces are going to go under an ax at the cost of that 270 square kilometers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U224	Thanks! The answer can be two ways: both answers are correct. In addition, no one goes, because even in the 4200 hectares where the felling age of the spruce of good bony-teed areas is reduced, it will be possible to cut down these spruces at the time of the 80th anniversary. So there's nothing more. Now, if the felling age is reduced, these same spruce can be cut off earlier and this area is 4200 hectares (one side 40 km and the other 10 km), but as you understand, no one is going to make this felling in this country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U225	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U226	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You answered Andres Ammas that you were doing your job with your heart. I say my heart is in the woods, but my head is in the woods. If he claimed that the ministers of my party have been so-called sawing-centred, what would you say to me, how much is it confirmed in numbers? I mean the proportion of cutting, sawing and growing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U227	Thanks! I may be getting out of my hands as well, who's been ruling in years, but as a person in politics for a long time, you're gonna be able to handle this. I say so much that the amendments to the Forest Act have been based on very different circumstances. This rigour that once arose there in the '90s was not because people had enormous awareness and passion to protect forests, but because the economic environment was more uncultural. All kinds of barriers needed to be put in place to prevent illegal trade in timber. When society became more civilized, it developed, the law could also be eased. So it's been up to date, and it makes perfect sense. The most brutally harvested in Estonia compared to the increase in forest in 2001, where the increase in forests was 11 million and 12 million were cut. I had not yet come into politics, I tell you to calm your heart. I do not go through all of this for 14 years, but in 2007 and 2008 there was a situation where the cutting volume was the lowest ever: 5 million were cut and 11 million increased during that period. I do not know whether the Reform Party and all the other parties that have been in government should feel good or bad now, but since 2008 the cutting volume has started to grow. Of course, he has never exceeded the growth. This stable level was achieved in 2012, with a cutting volume of 10 million orientally and an increase of 12 million. The 2014 data, cut in the same order of 10 million cubic metres and the increase in 13 million with something. This is the same paper that you examined carefully during Question Time. You can make new stories, write down prime ministers, their reigns and environmental ministers, and then get some huge analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U228	Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U229	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Together, we wrote a very clear principle in the coalition agreement that we will not cut Estonia's forest more than it will grow. Perhaps you could explain this once in this large Chamber of the Riigikogu. Hypothetic example: If tomorrow the price of the forest rose three to five times, it would also mean pressure on all private owners who undoubtedly have a greater desire to sell the forest. What specific points in the Forest Act we are discussing today draw the line that we really do not at one point discover how, in spite of everything, the forest has been cut more than it grows. What are these concrete measures, how does the state guarantee it? Let's go over this place one more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U230	Thanks! The principle is correct, that is what we have agreed. Indeed, the state is currently unable to control it, in general terms, in terms of felling capacity in private forests. He's got information and he can control what's going on at the State Forest Management Center. And if there were to be a situation like the one you described, he could change his felling plan, but that is why we should accept that all the fine things should be done in a smaller scale as far as public revenues are concerned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U231	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U232	Good manager! Good minister! Did I hear you say there's some sort of root-washing support team in the process? The question, however, is this: How does cutting down ever younger spruces, whether in the hands of a disease or not, affect, for example, a protected species such as a chicken owl? Would he like your program or this bill? It happens that these birds love the forest and the type you want to attack. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U233	Thanks! I'm just saying that the pillow is close to making a group of friends of the forest owners suffering from rootwash, not that he's a fan of it in any way. But the answer to the question could be that if there are 27000 hectares of untouched woodland and groveland, it should still be possible for this chicken owl to look around with a much broader look, it does not have to limit itself to this 4200 hectares.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U234	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U235	Thank you, Minister. The data came back so fast, I couldn't even trace it. Please confirm my words that the environmental ministers of the Reform Party have been growth-oriented. I was a little intimidated by this point in your coalition agreement, which says that chopping must not exceed growth. But during the time of the environmental ministers of the Reform Party, it was always the case that the increase exceeded cutting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U236	I don't know how many years you've been on the right track, but still too long.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U237	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U238	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! In the last few months, environmentalists and conservationists have indeed highlighted various aspects of this draft and talked about the current state and future of the forest and the state of nature. There has also been a specific issue concerning the biodiversity of birds nesting in forests and the environmental environment of the forest. One question that has arisen and to which I would like an answer is, for example, this. RMK has set the time for cutting in spring during the transitional period, when the diversity of species is the greatest, but it does not apply to private forests. What is the reason for this difference between state forests and private forests? This ratio is about 50: 50: 50 in Estonian forests, and could it not be regulated in such a way that cutting peace can also be mandatory in private forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U239	Thanks! The honest answer is, as usual, all my answers are honest, that I don't know why. I think this could be good practice, which the owner of a private forest has also accepted and adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U240	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U241	Thank you. Dear Minister, I wasn't going to ask, but I am still asking, because we are discussing what kind of growth ministers have been and what kind of harvest ministers have been. I listened to the percentages you mentioned, and I think in 2007 and 2008 the volume of felling was only 40% to 50% of the increase. When I tried to sum up these percentages as an economist, I got the result that in the last ten years the forest mass in Estonia should have been at least five-six times. I don't see it when I'm driving around. Confirm what I'm missing. Has the forest mass in Estonia really grown five, six, or even seven times as much as it was ten years ago, on the basis of statistics and felling capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U242	Thanks! I can tell you that calculation isn't right. I can assure you simply that forest land has grown significantly compared to the wartime situation. We have reached about 2.3 million hectares from 1.4 million hectares. So there's no way this six-fold thing's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U243	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U244	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I may have missed the answer to that question, maybe it's already been discussed. But since I really have not noticed this in today's discussion and, although not cutting spruce, but sawing has caused a lot of feelings, how has the same issue been resolved, for example, in Finland, Sweden or Latvia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U245	Thanks! I don't have that information about the situation with these equivalent bonite trees.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U246	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U247	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. There is a small team of businessmen in Estonia who will promise to build a factory for EUR 1 billion that will be involved in the production of paper. My question has to do with this. Will there be enough forest for this big company in the future if it were built in Estonia? Will there be enough forest in Estonia to come up with the idea of this paper mill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U248	Simple answer: not enough. There are two things. This paperwood, which is currently going round out, will probably reach this plant, maybe there will be some kind of redistribution on the Estonian market for current consumers and there should certainly be an import of forests. But it can't be that there are now entrepreneurs who offer an additional billion investments, and the Estonian state forgets all its stories about sustainable forest management. There will be no such situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U249	Thank you, dear waitress. No more questions for you. I would now like to ask for the presentation by the committee of the Chair of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the Act amending the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act on 2 March 2017 and its aim, as the Minister said, is to ensure the protection of forests and their sustainable management. The Committee on the Environment has discussed the draft at two meetings, on 13 March and 20 March, including: At the meeting of the Commission on 13 March, representatives of the Ministry of the Environment presented the draft and answered questions from its members. At the same meeting, the Commission proposed that the deadline for amendments to the draft be set at 4 p.m. on 5 April. At the meeting of the Commission on 20 March, the views of forest cooperatives and forestry consuls were also heard on the current situation in private forestry. So, in short, what was discussed in the Commission? First of all, we agreed by consensus that we would propose that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's plenary session, that the first reading be closed and, as I have already said, that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 5 April and that Rainer Vakra, a member of the Committee on the Environment, be appointed as rapporteur. These decisions were based on the principle that, although the Government of the Republic initiated this draft law, the actual work in the Committee on the Environment is only about to begin. Until 5 April, all members and political groups of the Riigikogu, as well as people outside our house, will be able to make their own proposals. In the Committee on the Environment, there is not only a procedure for processing this draft, but it is generally agreed that if someone proposes to us in writing from outside the Riigikogu, we will definitely invite him to the Committee on the Environment and give him the opportunity to explain his proposal verbally. As a result, after 5 April, when amendments have been received, we are also planning to have several meetings with the interested parties concerned, and certainly also with those members of our Riigikogu who make proposals to the Committee on the Environment. In the Committee on the Environment, there were mostly analogous questions that you have just heard from this great hall. My colleague Meelis Mälberg asked, for example, if we could not take the example of Finland and eliminate cutting age altogether. On this point, Minister Marko Pomerants replied that he did not consider this very possible and added that the private forests of Estonia and Finland are not comparable, as the owner of the Estonian forest is still too young. Valeri Korb took an interest in the felling age of the spruce that had received the same criticism, and the minister responded in the same way as before from the speaker's desk. We discussed another topic on which we did not very much stop in this large hall in the last hour, namely the volume of the preserved trees, namely the very environmental concept. The theme setting itself was as follows. At present, according to law, five cubic metres per hectare on a five-hectare lang are required to leave survival trees and ten cubic metres per hectare on a lang of more than five hectares. According to the statistics, it's 17. We wondered why an increase in the volume of preserved trees would not be envisaged as an option. But I believe that the Committee on the Environment will be able to come back to this. Let us say, the points to be discussed, the Committee on the Environment certainly has. I hope that all members of the Riigikogu will be as enthusiastic in this process as they are today asking the Minister questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U251	Thank you. You have questions too. Please, Lauri Swan!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U252	Thank you. Good Rainer, thank you for a thorough review of what happened in your committee. I know you are here as a representative of the Commission, but I would still like to take this opportunity to ask you what your personal position on this draft is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U253	I always like these questions, which are encouraging to speak from a personal point of view. Mr. Swan, I will, of course, answer you from a personal point of view. I am convinced that there are very many good points in this law, starting from the fact that at last 27000 hectares of forests will be protected. There are a number of principles that have been discussed before that have not been addressed. As regards, for example, the issue of planting as a whole, which was previously asked whether the state has the capacity to guarantee the existence of these plants, I have met several private operators in the relevant sector, who say that if there is demand on the market, they will be able to significantly speed up the cultivation process and grow these plants. Surely this is one of the places of debate. Of course, the Commission will also look seriously at all the proposals that you are putting forward, whether it is the issue of cutting age or other points. So I think that the Commission can work hard and work hard on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U254	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U255	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! In Question Time, I asked the Minister for the Environment about RMK's activities on the Viimsi peninsula. You also commented on the same case to journalists and pointed out that the draft that we are dealing with today comes to our tables and that one of the aims of the draft is to involve more local authorities and interested people in the processing of cutting permits. As far as Viimsi is concerned, the locals did not really see what was happening there until the sloths flew. You also said that the law must force the various parties in densely populated areas to find more compromises between the interests of the owner and the forestguards. I was trying to find this place that would support your hope. Can you tell me what point of law we can get to?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U256	Thank you. I must continue to admit that Rainer Vakra has not been involved in drafting this draft as a member of the Government of the Republic. My chance, like you, will come after we finish our first reading today. Until 5 April, I too will be able to table amendments and the corresponding amendment will already exist on my computer in a virtual format.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U257	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U258	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good colleague! I do not know what form you are proposing there, but I do know that both the Social Democratic Party and you yourself have taken the floor with great relief to protect the forests. And no matter how we appreciate this law, whether we regard it as good or bad, the real result of the legislative amendment that we are now facing is that cutting up the forest becomes easier and easier. How do you match these two positions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U259	I have not painted or said anything in any way, but as a result of my first, environmental higher education, obtained from the Faculty of Mathematics and Science of Tallinn University, to which the minister who was here before the remote, was happy to advertise, I firmly believe that Estonian forests are of social and ecological value. I am pleased that this debate as a whole has reached the point in Estonian society that very many people have accepted my position. When I spoke about this five or ten years ago, only economic benefits and related figures were constantly brought forward. So I think that, thanks to our collective efforts, society has now had this moment of dialect. I might as well say that the same 27000 hectares could have been protected already 10 to 15 years ago. I also asked the question in the Forestry Council why we have only now reached this point. I think this has improved because of the pressure we have put on each other. But I repeat once again the point, which the Committee on the Environment also unanimously supported, that we are now all in a position to make proposals. I continue to take my stand and try to do everything I can to ensure that the laws are ultimately made by the Riigikogu, not the Government of the Republic, and I hope that you will come to my aid in this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U260	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U261	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Thoughts are insane. The good thing about this bill is the 27,000 hectares you praise. At the same time, there are perhaps bad things in the good thing, because if I read the explanatory statement, then let's say that these changes support mainly the activities covered by the forestry development plan, which are aimed at making more sustainable use of the production potential of forest land. I mean, the old law, like it no longer supported this production potential, which is why it is now necessary to make these changes. I think the Commission supported this when you report it here today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U262	Thank you. It still seems to me that it is either my poor reporting or there are people who are not listening. I'm going to go over this very calmly again. You see, the laws initiated by the Government of the Republic are done in this way. Until 5 April, all of us will be able to make our proposals for this draft and shape this law exactly as the Riigikogu decides. As I said in response to my good colleague Swan: yes, there are things in the draft that I agree with, and there are things that I personally disagree with. What remains in it and what does not, ultimately the 101 members of the Riigikogu decide. Once again, I call on you to think along and find solutions for how this bill can be improved. And as far as the forestry development plan is concerned, yes, it is also my firm position that the sooner we start the process of adopting the new development plan, the better, because ultimately, the forestry development plan and the forest law are very linked. If, for example, we now adopt a development plan which provides that cutting capacity must be reduced twice as compared to the current one, these possibilities should, of course, already be envisaged here in the draft amendment to the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U263	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U264	Mr. Chairman of the Commission! After all, political problems have arisen in Estonia in connection with this draft. I'd rather be interested in how much you appreciated them or didn't appreciate them, not just the subject of precision finishing. Part of the Estonian intellectual community has raised fundamental requirements that could be summed up by the slogan 'Stop the harvesters! '. On the other hand, there has been a deep distrust of the "policy-making" of the officials and sub-offices of the Ministry of the Environment. In this sense, the issue is probably much wider than one ordinary draft. Has the Commission been able to assess policy risks and perspectives at this stage of the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U265	Thank you. Exactly as I said, I am pleased that this is no longer an issue of the so-called ultra-green heart, but also of the cultural people of Estonia. I think that this is one of the most and completely sensible environmental issues in the Republic of Estonia in recent years. Of course, the Committee on the Environment must also take into account what they lead to in all political decisions. At the first meeting of the Committee on the Environment, we did not explicitly address such political points separately. However, I have been involved in demonstrations on this issue, and I have also met with the representatives of these petitions. And I keep saying that they have a lot of ideas that should be added to this bill. I know there are still some good ideas coming up from the ministry. Right now, I dare say we have to measure it nine times and cut it once. This law can still be refined.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U266	Thank you. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. First, I would like to ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Artur Talvik!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U267	Good President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Forestry Act has initiated one substantive and fundamental debate in Estonia. One of the objects of Estonia's image design, if you could say so, is the forest. No matter what kind of clip or story we look at or book introducing Estonia, it starts with how powerful our forest is, how awesome our forest is. I've made my own clips of a brother, a computer on his lap, sitting on a stump in our proud forest, and communicating with the great world, surrounded by this powerful environment. But now this environment has become toothless and this toothlessness has disturbed such, you can say, the primitive nature of Estonia. This has disturbed a very large number of Estonian residents who have become evil because of their current behaviour. And it is not just emotion, but our people see every day how the forest is no longer really the environment in which it is reasonably managed, but the forest is viewed as a number of money. I've been wondering where the center of this problem or the conflict is. Today, I'm convinced it's in the middle of the Ministry of the Environment. In the Ministry of the Environment, it is precisely this ministry that has grown into a crooked state. He doesn't do what he's supposed to do, that is to keep our environment in balance, to stand up for the state of the environment. It is from the Ministry of the Environment that the mentality is that when I look at the forest, the euro starts to rattle. It is from the Ministry of the Environment that there will be any relief that is jealous of the interests of the big industry. I am not saying that these interests are private forest owners, they are precisely the big industry, because the more we cut, the cheaper this tree is and the more profitable it is for the big industry to use the forest. Regrettably, the Forest Development Plan, which came out in 2011, has also come from the same Ministry of the Environment. I'd like to say that whatever minister comes to the Ministry of the Environment, they all end up on the hook of one of the former forest workers, Chancellor Talijärv. And this is definitely a source of misconception, misthink. The current minister promoted the Chancellor in addition to RMK, our largest forest organisation... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U268	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U269	... as if standing up for the forest, how can I put it, to the head of the union council. The mentality that the Ministry of the Environment is creating has led us to become out of balance in our attitude towards the forest. The Ministry, in turn, is under pressure from the government, which wants to cover various promises financially. This way, RMK has also been put under pressure, which is being called for more and more dividends, and of course the Government of the Republic also receives a lot of tax revenue from the forest industry into the state budget. This debate, which has taken place and which the Ministry of the Environment has been lucky, is amazingly demagogic. Very much has been played with numbers, very much has been played with new statistical methods. Very much is appealed to the opinions of some scientists, and when other scientists come and say that wait-wait, there is something totally wrong here, they say that we only have some scientists who know right and speak right. We've run into harvester time, and the pressure that the Ministry of the Environment puts on us can be called harvester pressure. As a result of this situation, we have reached a position where, in order to protect the forest at all, it must be placed under strict protection and, as a counterweight, we are facing larger fields of forest. The Free Party is not in favour of no forest management at all. The draft law under discussion says that the security cutting will make this whole situation better. Let me remind you, if you go with the harvester to make a security cutting, the soil that the harvester breaks down under the forest will recover in about ten years. The situation I was talking about is bad. And in order for the Ministry of the Environment to have time to think about things and also time to think about how the Ministry of the Environment will become the Ministry of the Environment again, rather than the Ministry of Finance, the Free Party Group proposes to reject this bill. It would give the ministry time to get closer, just as foresters have time to think about when to cut down the forest and when not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U270	Next, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U271	Good President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this debate here today in the big hall and for the opportunities to meet various groups and interest groups to talk about a very important topic, about the Estonian forest and what is happening there. I really like the woods. I think we all like it better in the woods than in the clear-cut. But we need to understand in life that this is a circle that starts at birth and ends at death, but there are many stages in which a person needs to act and deliver and really do so at his best. I often go to old farms where human activities have ended and where lynx live under the lynx roofs of farms. It's kind of beautiful in these places and sad the other way around, but I see every year how nature actually takes you back. And he does it mercilessly. I am very pleased that I live in a place where nature's power dictates man very powerfully. The 1990s were undoubtedly the time when everything was cut, no matter how, and they tried to get the wealth and the money from the forest to improve their lives. Very little was put back. As a young person, I certainly do not miss these times, but I think that what has happened in the Estonian forest is the right way. I am a little surprised at this forest debate, perhaps when we often talk about nature conservation, that we are going to go after the owner's income and have to compensate him for something as a country. At the same time, we don't trust the owner in this context when he takes us to the woods and shows us that this spruce is actually destined to die. Yet, the owner or his previous generations have invested in it. He'd like to chop it up, but he can't, he'll have to wait until the value of that wood decreases, then he'll have a pathologist on top of that tree. That is, in my opinion, the question of which country we want to see. I think with this bill we are taking a step in the right direction if we actually trust more of the owner. I am a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK, and I have been able to go to Järvamaa to see spruce like this. That's actually a problem. That is the real problem where we have to trust the owner or the manager of the property and make the smartest decisions, because just as we cannot protect nature on paper, we cannot manage the forest sensibly on paper. We can lay down rules, but there's trust sometimes. And it is true, as Mr Vakra has already mentioned here today, that economic space is indeed what sets these rules. We can spell it out like this, but economic space proposes rules. Once again, I suggest that everyone think about what is Estonian Nokia. And I dare say again that this is the Estonian forest. We trust the owner of the forest, we simplify the rules, we cut red tape! I believe that in cooperation we will also see Estonia very forested in ten years' time, and I believe that this is what we have to do here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U272	Next, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Reform Party, I would like to ask Keit Pentus-Rosimannus! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U273	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate on the future of Estonian forests has been very heated in recent months. Unfortunately, on the opposition side, it can and must be said very briefly that the government has failed in discussions about the future of the Estonian forest. I will present here today three reasons why we consider this to be the case. First of all, the government has not been able to take down the tensions affecting the future of the forest and the concern about the future of Estonian forests, which has emerged very acutely in society, has not been relieved. You can ask yourself, and you must ask yourself, " What concern is there? ' And if you sum it up very briefly again, you could describe it as a fear that Estonian forests will be cut to pieces. And it's being wiped out because the government wants more and more money out of the state forest to cover their policies. It is fear that this same cutting, cutting down of the forest will somehow be a higher goal than it is to preserve and preserve the natural environment and wildlife. After all, it is somehow easy to say that fear is one very bad counselor at all, and emotion as a guide never justifies itself. But I think it's even worse when the fear that exists, which really exists in society, is somehow simply ignored. The government's task has been to take these fears down, but it has not been managed. Second reason. This amendment to the Forest Act, which is on the tables before us and which we discussed here today, essentially concerns 90% of the state forest. And yet the sharpness of the outcome of this whole debate has somehow been directed against private forest owners. Artificially, there has been a situation where private forest owners have been placed on the other side, compared to those who want to preserve nature. To put it plainly, I find it very unfair to private forest owners. These are the people who have kept the forest, who have taken care of the viability of the forest, who have put their time, energy and money there. In my opinion, those private forest owners who understand what sustainable forest management is, for whom the forest is not a short-term business project, but a generation-to-generation inheritance, a transfer of value, must be kept as an eyepiece. They must be supported and evaluated. However, it must be said once again that these discussions have failed to do so, unfortunately. State support directed at private forest owners, for example, instead of the complex maintenance of individual small pieces in the form of support for a cooperative, is important, and instead of such a fingertip or some form of artificial confrontation by the government, we certainly want to see much more of this. Thirdly, as I said on my question, which was addressed to the Minister, the whole government debate and the subject-matter is still very thick and chopper-centred, but the forest is not only solid meters. The forest is alive, an integrated natural environment, and it is a natural environment that, of course, cannot stand up for itself. How, though, can the same value as the forest as a whole be taken into account alongside these same growing cubic metres? This answer does not have to be and must not be emotional. As I said before, it must be based on the knowledge of naturalists and perhaps there is a substantive answer somewhere. But once again, in all this debate, these answers have not been heard by the government. In conclusion, when we talk about forest owners, there are a million forest owners in Estonia. The state forest is not government-owned in any way, it is everyone's. And it makes perfect sense that each of us, through the state forest, who owns the forest, has a right to have an interest and a heart to ache for the preservation and future of the same forest. Of course, it is true for those who say that wood growing in the forest plays a very important role in our economy. That is the case, but somewhere there is a limit to what you have to say when you come to think about the future, thinking about a more distant future, it is more important to preserve our natural environment, to preserve our living environment than it is on a log load that is being shipped out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U274	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. But first, I will give the floor again to the Minister for the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U275	Thanks! I understand that the Rules of Procedure have enabled this and will continue to allow the Minister to participate in the negotiations. Artur Talvik's answer to the maximum size of the cutting area that the border neighbours may have. Even now there is no such maximum limit, but the situation you are describing is unrealistic in real life. That's one. Secondly, regardless of the size of the felling, its owner is obliged to renew the forest. So it's easy to chop, but there must also be a willingness to rebuild this forest. It was such a substantive answer. Now, about the various values of the forest. As Minister of the Environment, I can sign all this. There's no point in being very vague here either, that I don't know if one value is greater than the other. In the coming years, we will certainly actually be able, on the basis of methodologies, to put both forest management values and social values, the existence of a bird song back into some sort of financial categories, because this is the universal goods with which we can compare things. Artur Talvik's appeal: please stop insulting the Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment! I'm sure it's a person with ethical insights in place. And another suggestion: to be consistent on environmental issues in different areas. For example, it could be possible to open the river to salmonians at the Linnamäe dam.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U276	I am really closing the negotiations now. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of Bill 396. But both the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Estonian Free Party have received a proposal to reject the draft at first reading. We will, of course, put these proposals to the vote. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party and the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 26 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, no abstentions. First reading of the bill is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 396 amendments. a on 5 April at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U277	The next item is the first reading of Bill 397 on Amendment of the General Part of the Environmental Code Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and other Acts. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U278	Stay with us! That's also a very interesting bill, by the way. The draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws is before you. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. You have been presented with a draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code Act and other laws, drawn up in cooperation with other ministries, which is a legal language, you must accept. The draft amends the General Part of the Environmental Code Act, the Environmental Monitoring Act, the Environmental Charges Act and the Industrial Emissions Act to the extent necessary for the creation and launch of a new database of environmental decision-making information system, a short and airy name KOTKAS. The creation of KOTKAS started already at the end of 2014 and will be developed in two stages. The first phase is coming to an end today. This will result in the completion of the functionality necessary to ensure the environmental complex authorisation service. As a result of this phase, KOTKAS can easily submit a complex permit application, draw up and submit environmental fee declarations, statistical reports on environmental use, i.e. reports on ambient air, water use and waste activities, and self-monitoring data on permits. It is also significantly easier to fill out an application because there are in-built checks in this system, primers are used, interfaces with other databases, map interfaces and application guides are available. The system allows automatic reminders to be sent in respect of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the authorisation. It will be easier to submit annual statistical reports on the use of the environment. To sum up, this will lead to a reduction in the price for the applicant to prepare the application. Officials can manage permits, carry out procedures, manage permit-related documents and monitor compliance with permit-related obligations, such as environmental fee calculation, annual reports and monitoring. A quality control module will also be established. I would stress that the draft in question makes changes to the establishment of KOTKAS, i.e. the General Part of the Environmental Code Act inserts the basis for the establishment of KOTKAS (as already compatible with'set-up') in order to process and store data relating to complex permits, as well as the necessary amendments to the previously mentioned laws for the implementation of the first stage. As I have already said, KOTKAS is being developed in two stages. In the second phase, it should last until 2019, other environmental permits (i.e. waste permits, air pollution permits, special water permits and ground permits) and their registrations and procedures will be gradually transferred to the KOTKAS system. In the second phase, the current five information systems (the environmental permit information system, the OSIS, the external emission source information system, the JATS, the waste reporting information system, the VEKA, the annual water use information system and the HEIAN, waste water analysis information system) will be replaced by KOTKAS. The register of sources with KOTKAS will also be merged. At the end of the second phase, KOTKAS is also merged with the processing of rights of use in the hunting area and the registration of hunting certificates, the procedure for greenhouse gases and practices and the register of sources. The legislative changes necessary for the implementation of the second phase will be developed on an ongoing basis, given that KOTKAS phase 2 is expected to have a final date of 2019. The creation of KOTKAS is a major step towards reducing red tape and administrative burdens in the field of the environment. This combines the reform of government with the aim of reducing the administrative burden on businesses in their dealings with the state and with the objectives of the so-called zero bureaucracy project, in particular due to pre-filled annual reports, data aggregation and information exchange through KOTKAS. Applications for authorisation through KOTKAS will be less burdensome for applicants, as applications will be cheaper, the quality of applications will be improved and the processing of applications will be accelerated. When it comes to KOTKAS users and beneficiaries other than the officials of the Ministry of the Environment and its agencies, there are nearly 260 companies holding a complex permit in Estonia and a dozen consultancy companies preparing applications for a complex permit. This is precisely a complex process for which assistance must be sought. The second phase of KOTKAS already concerns the wider user circle, as the so-called sectoral environmental permits for special use of water, waste permits, ambient air pollution permits have been issued in Estonia by nearly 4000. To be more precise about the draft law amending the law in question, it must be said that it consists of five sections. Paragraph 1 provides for amendments to be made to the General Part of the Environmental Code Act. As I said earlier, they are necessary to establish a database and to enable data to be transferred from the databases currently in use to KOTKAS. Paragraph 2 provides for a minor amendment to the Environmental Monitoring Act. This is due to the fact that the self-monitoring data related to complex permits will be stored in KOTKAS in the future. These are permit-related data and therefore they also need to be linked to a specific licence in the information technology, which in turn enables an effective and effortlessly comprehensive picture of the activities carried out under the permit. Paragraph 3 provides for amendments to be made to the Environmental Charges Act. These changes are necessary in order to ensure that environmental charges are taken into account and declared unambiguously in KOTKAS and, above all, in relation to the disposal of waste, and to make clear the obligation to calculate and pay environmental charges. Paragraph 4 provides for amendments to the Industrial Emissions Act. These changes are precisely due to the introduction of environmental permits in KOTKAS in the first phase, and it is planned that applications for environmental licences will be submitted through KOTKAS from 1 July onwards. Paragraph 5 contains provisions for the entry into force of the Act. In conclusion, I note that all the above-mentioned legislative changes are necessary to enable the Ministry of the Environment to launch, figuratively speaking, a new database of KOTKAS, thereby reducing red tape and contributing to the achievement of environmental objectives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U279	The first question to the Minister on the general part of the environmental code is put by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U280	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I believe we all welcome the take-off and flight of KOTKAS in the first and second stages. My question is a little more general and takes us to Ida-Viru County. In today's North Coast, the editor-in-chief of this newspaper is concerned about this, too, that you were talking about environmental charges here, whether it is even planned to review the distribution of environmental charges. Today, this neighborhood of Ida-Virumaa gives away environmental charges to Tallinn and only one speck of them is returned. For years, it has been said that it would be very helpful for the region if environmental charges were to remain there. Was that a point, or is this not an appropriate subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U281	Thanks! Today, too, while driving between two esteemed institutions, the Ministry of the Environment and the Riigikogu, I listened to the debate of Erik Gamzeyev. This has not been the result of the proposals made by one of my colleagues, Urve Palo, on how the money for pollution charges in the Environmental Investment Centre could be used in a different way. I must say, as Minister for the Environment, to your regret that I do not support this proposal. I think the Environmental Investment Centre can solve environmental problems through environmental charges. But it should certainly be taken into account that the major infrastructure problems that have so far been encountered in Ida-Virumaa would not be solved if only solutions resulting from environmental charges had been retained. Drinking water in the city of Narva is an example, drinking water in the city of Sillamäe is an example, and so we could continue. In fact, the amount of money that has reached and will continue to reach environmental projects is considerably higher than what the region could get back in the form of environmental charges and payments by Estonian companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U282	Minister, there are no further questions for you right now. Mr Terje Trei, member of the Committee on the Environment, now receives the floor for the presentation by the Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U283	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed the draft law amending the General Part of the Environmental Code and other laws at its meeting on 7 March. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Aivi Aolaid-Aas, Adviser to the Environmental Management Department of the Ministry of the Environment, took part in the discussion. Like today in this Chamber, the Minister gave a thorough overview of the draft in the Commission. I do not consider it necessary to carry out a thorough review of its contents. In short, we are expected to make minor changes to several laws so that we can create a database and I will also use this phrase, KOTKAS, to let go. The debate in the Commission was constructive and there were no differences of opinion. In addition to the Minister's thorough explanation, Aivi Aolaid-Aas, adviser to the Ministry's Environmental Management Department, provided a summary explanation, who noted that companies have provided positive feedback on pre-filled reports that the information system can prepare itself, that the company only needs to review the data and that the report is digitally signed. The only question raised by the Commission was Mr Korb. He wondered why the information system would be carried out in two stages. The Minister replied that the division of the stages had been caused both by the lack of financial resources and by the desire to start with the most complex and extensive complex permits. First, however, a legal basis must be created. The development work will only be completed in 2019. Aivi Aolaid-Aas added that the development works are accompanied by amendments to the Waste Act and the Air Protection Act, but will be dealt with in the future. The full consensus made the necessary decisions for further processing of the draft. First, it was decided to appoint Terje Trei, member of the Committee on the Environment, as rapporteur, to propose that 397 be placed on the agenda of the assembly by 22 March 2017, thirdly, it was decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed and fourthly, it was decided to propose that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft be set at 5 April at 16 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U284	Thanks for the waitress! No questions for you. It is now possible for the political groups to negotiate on general principles. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 397. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 5 April at 16 a.m. for the submission of 397 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U285	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour of the Chair, please report!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U286	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I present to you bill 381, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, the draft law amending the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act, as stated. This draft has undoubtedly been through a very long and quite colourful route before today, shaped by dozens of Estonian civil society associations, scientists, doctors and health professionals, and has been followed and recognised by many international organisations, including the European Alcohol Policy Alliance Eurocare, Nordic Alcohol Policy Network NordAN, the Lithuanian Tobacco and Alcohol Control Association, the European Alcohol Advertising Monitoring Centre EUCAM and the French National Association for Alcohol and Drug Prevention. In its own way, those who feel that their personal business interests in alcohol are more important than those of society have tried to influence the course of the journey. There's nothing new about that, of course. In the same way, for decades, researchers, health promoters and politicians have been attacked by tobacco manufacturers, who have fought hard to tighten up tobacco policy in Europe and globally. Now, of course, alcohol workers and related business communities are also fighting this kind of fight. Estonian entrepreneurs whose business interests are negatively affected by these proposals, which aim to protect public health, have in themselves used both law firms and their politician friends to protect legitimate interests, not to mention a reputational campaign that has been used quite vigorously and successfully to discredit the measures provided for in this draft. I can assure you with a calm heart that the rumors of a dry law and a curfew are not true at all. If someone really does have that kind of fear, we can draw a line on it here. Ossinovski does not ban alcohol, he does not ban its sale, even less prohibit or restrict its consumption. Those who make an informed decision that they want to drink can continue to consume it. On the contrary, I would say that this is not a ban policy. By restricting the freedom of activity of a narrow business sector, we give people the freedom to make their daily consumption decisions without the smart and professionally targeted influence that promotion is certainly about. The most important objective of this draft is, of course, that new generations, our children, can grow up without strong alcohol propaganda, the message of which is obvious and simple: alcohol is social normality; it is an integral part of a full life in Estonia. I do not think that this is a social norm that is worth shaping in young people. We should work in the opposite direction. But I'll start with the economy. Of course, in this context, the interests of public health and the economy, which compete with each other, have been opposed. The right thing is that there is a conflict of interest in this bill. It's natural, it's supposed to be like this. As Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise has repeatedly and correctly pointed out, when there is a coincidence of interests in society, i.e. there is no need to regulate, regulation is needed when different interests compete with each other. That is when the government and the Riigikogu have to make a decision on which interest to put to the fore. It is natural that operators in this sector pursue their legitimate ownership interest in order to increase production volumes and thereby increase profits. This concerns both alcohol producers and advertising companies. At the same time, there is a constitutional requirement for the protection of public health. It is clear that these two are incompatible with alcohol policy, but also with tobacco policy, for example. In this situation, the legislator must decide, together with the government, which interest should be preferred. More importantly, in the longer term, less alcohol consumption is not only more socially beneficial, but also more beneficial for the economy. Very conservative estimates show that alcohol-related health losses are around 2% of GDP (including alcohol-related mortality and healthy life years lost due to alcohol-related diseases). In 2015, this loss amounted to at least EUR 440 million. However, this calculation method underestimates the share of alcohol in certain groups of diseases, so we know that the actual damage is greater. Neither has alcohol crime, accidents, or social harm been included in it, either in money or in human life. There's another way to calculate the damage. The report on the health effects of air pollution published by the Ministry of the Environment used a methodology that considered the financial value of the loss of statistical life to be around EUR 1.5 million in 2011. Considering that we are losing more than 1,000 lives a year because of alcohol, the Social Ministry's calculation of 2011 even says that alcohol has a yearly death of 1400, the financial loss is over EUR 1.5 billion. In addition to being able to calculate the costs that arise for Estonian society and economy, we are able to estimate the direct medical costs. It could be said that the entire Estonian people are a major sponsor of the alcohol industry, as the medical costs of alcohol consumption are covered by our joint and several health insurance, the social tax. We know that this budget is already tense and in 2015 it took around EUR 50 million for treatment alone. The main burden on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund comes from diseases that can affect any one of us, such as cancer or heart disease, the risk of which is increased by alcohol, but which cannot be directly linked to alcohol consumption, but we know that the carcinogenic role of alcohol is very high and that it is also important as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. But, of course, health costs are only a small part of all costs. We do not have precise calculations of the cost to the police or the prison system of excess alcohol consumption. We can't fully assess the amount of added value and income lost in Estonia because a person who consumes too much alcohol doesn't realise his or her potential. We can understand these proportions by looking at similar studies from other countries. Finland, a country very similar to us in terms of alcohol culture, has been monitoring its alcohol damage for years. It has been estimated that only 9% of the total expenditure on health care directly related to alcohol. On the contrary, the greatest costs are caused by accidents and violence and additional burdens on law enforcement and the social system. It is precisely the law enforcement and justice system that is certainly the area that pays the most toll on alcohol. In Estonia, too, the police have made an estimated campaign, during which they looked at how many alcohol-related challenges came in one day, and all of them were put together in a memorably single cloud of words. These have been all police calls in Estonia in one day, and this picture came out like this. [[Shows the image.]] Three words stand out: 'Drunken man in Tallinn'. Let's get to the facts. Last year, the police received 37,000 calls and reports related to alcohol consumption, 11,500 people were taken sober, drunk drivers caused 165 traffic accidents involving human suffering, killing 7 and injured over 200 people, more than 7,000 drunk drivers were hit at the wheel, and over 3,000 cases involving minors who had used alcohol. Drunkers do not make the Rescue Board's work easier either: nearly half of the drowned people were intoxicated, and in most cases alcohol was involved in fires caused by man's death. You probably realize that it's not conceivable to go on like this. The aggressive marketing practices of alcohol producers can be justified by the arguments that this is the case in our cultural space or that alcohol is an integral part of our everyday life. We cannot simply afford to see the number of alcohol deaths so high year after year. Fortunately, it is not necessary to invent a bicycle to make a significant improvement in the situation, nor has it been done. Almost a decade ago, in 2008, the WHO, or the World Health Organisation, brought together all alcohol policy measures for which scientific evidence was available at that time as a coherent alcohol strategy. All WHO countries, including Estonia, approved it and promised to implement it. The strategy lists ten areas of action and sets out actions in parallel for all of them. Parallelity is very important. Action, as science confirms, must be taken in a complex way. You cannot take one small part of them, apply it and measure exactly how much it affects alcohol consumption. As this is a question of developing a wider alcohol culture and social standard, it is important that measures are taken in a complex way. This means that information, treatment, pricing, as well as promotion, sales conditions and all other areas will be dealt with in parallel. That's what's going to work. The individual measures in this draft may not seem to be the most effective, but it is important to look at the whole, the social alcohol culture we are trying to shape with all these changes. The WHO has not limited itself to ranking actions. Data collection will continue and their cost-effectiveness has been analysed over the years in addition to the effectiveness of the measures. For example, alcohol treatment is certainly very effective in preventing damage, but it is very expensive. The most cost-effective measures, most of which are covered by this draft law, are the restriction of access to alcohol and the prohibition or restriction of advertising, in addition to the general excise policy of the country, which is outside the framework of this draft and which has already been dealt with. The Estonian Green Paper on Alcohol Policy is based on the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy and sets out activities in all ten areas of the global strategy. Let us see what we have done since the adoption of the Green Paper in 2014. We have covered all areas, except access and promotion, in one way or the other. Acts have risen and there is limited opportunity to legally bring alcohol across the Russian border. In order to reduce drunkenness, campaigns have been organised and policies have been developed to train sellers not to sell alcohol to a person intoxicated form. Examples of prevention of drunken management include both more than double checks and pilot drivers training projects. With the help of the Institute for Health Development, a guide has been developed for local governments and a pilot project to empower local authorities. Each year, two campaigns have taken place at the Institute for Health Development, and in 2015 there was also a project 'Downwards for Joe! ', there have been abstinence alliance campaigns to raise awareness. The "Kainem and Healthier Estonia" major project for the development of treatment and counselling has begun, and continuous monitoring is also taking place. These areas, where nothing has happened so far, are restricting access to alcohol and advertising. This draft fills this gap and brings Estonia's alcohol policy into line with the WHO's global alcohol strategy. I will now go to the amendments set out in the draft. Firstly, the draft amends the provisions of the Alcohol Act on the display of alcoholic beverages in shops and the right of the local government to restrict alcohol trade, and adds the provisions on the control transaction. First of all, I'm talking about restrictions on the shops. The government's joint decision does not reduce the number of outlets by this draft. According to the Reply, there are 207 retail outlets for alcohol per 100000 inhabitants in Estonia, with 15 in Iceland and 80 in Sweden. This is definitely a forum for discussion. According to surveys, about 90% of Estonian residents reach the alcohol sales point in less than ten minutes; alcohol is one of the best available goods or services in the Republic of Estonia. Whether this should be the case is the question of the next discussions. In this draft, we will not reduce the number of outlets, but we will reduce the visibility of alcohol at the points of sale. To this end, the draft stipulates, firstly, that alcoholic beverages must be placed separately from other goods in all shops, since there is no serious reason why essential goods should be placed in shops on the obstacle course of beer and vodka. We know very well that product placement in supermarkets is a science of its own. In order to increase consumption and the number of spontaneous purchases, alcohol is naturally placed in places where people buy it more spontaneously. In Tallinn there is such a restriction that alcohol should be separate from other goods, has been in force for years and is in itself very reasonable. We want to introduce it throughout the country. Secondly, in shops with a sales area exceeding 450 square metres, alcoholic beverages must be placed in such a way that their display cannot be seen in the sales hall. The proposal based on the size of the sales space was not the original proposal of the Ministry of Social Affairs. This solution was offered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the basis of its knowledge, based on the division of trading companies into larger and smaller shops, and we have agreed with this in the government. The non-visibility requirement applies to about a quarter of Estonian shops, most shops are excluded from this restriction, as in small shops it would be more difficult to restructure. However, according to Statistics Estonia, around 80% of the total alcohol sold in Estonia is sold in these shops, which are part of this quarter. As a result of these changes, food shops are created in Estonia, from which everyday food products can be obtained without the obligation to come into contact with alcohol. While we are not reducing the availability of alcohol in this sense, we are not restricting the activities of those who go to the store to make an informed purchase of alcohol, they can continue to do so calmly, but we are helping those who are trying to overcome their addiction. Estonian psychiatrists have also found that seeing a bottle of alcohol alone puts the addict's brain at work with a mechanism that directs him to buy this product. According to WHO, about 11% of men of working age in Estonia are addicted and more than half of men consume alcohol in a health-promoting way during the pilot project of the Health Development Institute. So we are not talking at all about small groups of people. The change is also welcome, of course, among families with children. A significant change is also that local authorities have the right to limit the time they trade alcohol in catering establishments as well, in order to ensure a calming of the night on their territory. Mr President, may I ask you for an extra five minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U287	Paragraph 67 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that this is possible. I'm willing to negotiate with you to reach an agreement. Five minutes extra.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U288	Thank you very much. The draft also amends the provisions of the Alcohol Act on the protection of minors and the fight against contraband. Under the current rules, the seller may ask the buyer for a document if he suspects that it is an adult. In the future, we will reverse this scheme: the seller undertakes to make sure that the buyer is of an adult age. In essence, this means that the seller must ask for a document whenever the buyer is not familiar to him or is clearly not an older person. In addition, the draft provides for the possibility of a control transaction to identify two very dangerous acts for society: the violation of the ban on the sale of alcohol to minors and the trade in illicit alcohol. For years, we have observed thought - provoking scissors in statistics. The number of minors caught drinking is four figures per year, about 3,000, but those caught selling alcohol to a minor are only one or two figures each year. Let us give an example here of the recent European study ESPAD on alcohol and drug use for school pupils, the results of which show that most school pupils aged 15 to 16 must have easy or easy access to alcohol. Now I'm talking about changes in advertising law. While the first measures provided for in the draft act on the visibility and availability of alcohol contribute to changing the behaviour of those who wish to restrict their consumption of alcohol and those who are addicted to alcohol and prevent minors from accessing alcohol, advertising restrictions have a greater impact on the development of attitudes among the next generation. Alcohol advertising is one of many factors influencing alcohol consumption. Of course, we would all like to believe that advertising does not affect us at all, and we always make our purchasing decisions as rational creatures. Unfortunately, scientific research confirms something else, and young minors are particularly affected. I quote the conclusion of the report by the group of researchers from the Alcohol and Health Forum at the European Commission: 'Alcohol marketing increases the likelihood that minors will start drinking alcohol and those who already consume increase drinking quantities. Econometric studies have explained the impact of alcohol advertising on total consumption and have found that the increase in the volume of each 10% of alcohol advertising increases consumption by 0.3%. [---] The effect of marketing seems to be cumulative: in those markets where young people see more alcohol advertising, [they] start drinking in larger quantities. " It has also been confirmed that young people are most attracted to so - called lifestyle advertising, engaging stories, music, animation, and the kind of people who are always in advertising. Research projects have shown that young people are most affected by the techniques used in these lifestyle promotions: storytelling, music, animation, fun. In Estonia, these are the kind of advertisements that dominate. According to studies, most alcohol advertising is not about the product, but it creates a general, beautiful and social atmosphere and a good mood to show that alcohol consumption is not only a normal phenomenon but also a part of a good life. The alternative to the general ban on alcohol advertising, which we are not doing with this bill, is making them less attractive, as we have proposed in this bill. In addition to the fact that alcohol advertising must in the future be neutral under the draft, the ban on advertising alcohol on TV and radio will be prolonged (prohibited until 21 o'clock, then prohibited until 22 o'clock) and the ban on outdoor advertising on alcohol. Similarly, advertising in social media, which has been one of the topics of discussion since the first coordination of the draft, is prohibited. Very many organisations, including media organisations, have pointed out that it is also important to take steps to protect young people by restricting the spread of alcohol advertising in the new media. Finally, I will talk about the broader philosophical view in this draft, and two points can be pointed out. Indeed, alcohol should not generally be obtained free of charge and alcohol should not be obtained at a more favourable price if it is bought more, as it motivates people to drink more alcohol than they would otherwise do. These changes concern happy hour, co-sales of other products and alcohol at cheaper prices, etc. Finally, let me say that everyone who reads this draft quickly understands its real purpose. We do not want to ban the sale of alcohol, but to reduce the visibility of alcohol in public spaces and restrict the availability of alcohol and advertising. We do this on the basis of evidence, based on the best research in the world. In the longer term, it significantly reduces alcohol consumption in Estonia as well as excessive alcohol consumption, as well as the exposure of minors to alcohol, ensures a safe environment and reduces alcohol-related harm. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U289	Mr Minister, when we look soberly at the situation that has arisen, we must say that there are many questions for you. The first of these will be presented by Martin Helme. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U290	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. Well, the story that you don't ban things here... A former member of your party forbids water in this hall. So this ban has gotten pretty depressing. I would like to ask a lot of questions, but, above all, I would like to ask the following question. I'm sure you're aware that a restriction has already been imposed on large shops that have to make a separate room for alcohol and build walls between them. But are you aware that, as a result, there was no change in the sales of alcohol? There were expenses. As a result of the current legislative amendment, smaller shops will also have to build walls. Based on past experience, it is highly questionable whether it changes sales quantities or not, but it makes the lives of shops more difficult. Why are you running this policy? It doesn't have an effect, does it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U291	Thank you. If you read the bill carefully, you will see two things. First of all, we do not require the construction of walls, we do not require any capital building. We have said this very clearly in the draft, and a member of the Riigikogu can get to know it nicely. Paragraph 1 (3) of the draft states that the display of an alcoholic beverage must not be visible from the rest of the sales hall. It is up to the merchants to decide what they do, whether they put up a blind or a curtain or build a wall. Indeed, when Tallinn discussed such restrictions, the Prisma chain changed simple plastic structures for alcohol departments, for example. That's one way to do it. You can do it differently, we won't write it down. Secondly, you can read from the same provision that this restriction applies only to shops with a sales area of more than 450 square metres. As I said in my report, this means that three-quarters of Estonian shops will not be restricted. Only a quarter of the shops go under it, so it's just bigger stores. Thirdly, as regards the impact of these changes, as has been said, none of these changes should be seen as a stand-alone measure, but as a kind of complex solution for reducing the visibility of alcohol, including at points of sale. As a complex solution, this will certainly change Estonia's social alcohol consumption standard in the longer term and reduce alcohol consumption. I was also talking about how this affects people who are trying to overcome their addiction. I hope I answered all your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U292	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U293	Thank you, good manager. I would remind you that there are water bottles on these tables that were supposed to be forbidden. Maybe Maria Alajõe can come and clean them up? But, good minister, I'm going to the question. You also refuse to sell the happy hour, the so-called "preferential" which has been used in the case of alcohol. You often attend Council meetings in Brussels, European Union ministerial meetings. Have you also raised this issue at European Union level? If I have been to Brussels and western Europe at all, I have very often seen happy hour ads and alcohol ads on large posters at bus stations, for example. Do you have any analyses of how alcohol consumption and health risks have been affected by such advertising in other countries? Do you intend to teach Belgium and France, during our Presidency, how to drink alcohol and to explain to them that alcohol advertising should be banned in a visible place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U294	Thank you. First of all, as far as happy hour is concerned, as I said in my presentation, this is only one of those changes, the general philosophy of which is that alcohol should not be obtained at a preferential price and people should not be invited to drink more alcohol in this way, that if you buy more alcohol, you will get it more favorably. Consequently, this proposal is included in the draft. It is worth noting that offering alcohol at a preferential price has long been banned in the Republic of Estonia, although this is often not known. If you're going to the mall, you won't see the alcohol prices. This principle, that alcohol should not be obtained cheaper, has been in the Estonian legal space for a very long time. Now we are just taking the next step and introducing regulation in those places where it has been missing so far, in order to reduce, say, the motivations that merchants are happy to use to make people drink more. As far as the European Union is concerned, on Monday, I came back from an informal meeting of health ministers in Malta, where a very significant number of Member States, if not to say that most Member States, strongly supported the fact that the European Union's alcohol regulations would allow countries to impose restrictions on the sale of alcohol and on advertising and other pro-consumption factors due to their public health protection objectives. It is certainly not our aim to establish pan-European rules on this issue, it would not be realistic or sensible, because each country must be able to shape its own alcohol policy in this regard. But surely, the European Union should not, I believe, agree with this to restrict the right of a Member State to take more forceful action if it wishes than any other Member State.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U295	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U296	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There are some restrictions and adjustments to advertising in the bill, but I would say that they are quite cosmetic. In my opinion, advertising is one of the components that very clearly leads to alcohol, especially young people (and women too), and can contribute to the development of alcoholism. Why has the draft law not dealt with this area much harder?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U297	Thank you very much. I have said this earlier and will say once again that this draft itself is quite a compromise with the economic circles involved in alcohol. Indeed, they were involved in the drafting of the Green Paper. The truth is that the full ban agreement on alcohol advertising was not born in the development of the Green Paper, and that is not what we have offered here either. However, I would argue that very significant changes have been made to the provisions on alcohol advertising. They change the regulation of alcohol advertising in principle. At present, the advertising law on alcohol advertising says what this advertising must not be and what conditions it must not meet. That is why there are endless disputes between the Consumer Protection Board and advertisers, whether or not some advertising increases sexual or social success. (That is just the wording of the advertising law, in case anyone asked why I gave such an example.) We are now taking over the French alcohol advertising regulation model. Instead of saying what kind of alcohol advertising is not supposed to be, let's say what kind of alcohol advertising is supposed to be and what it's allowed to be. What is not considered acceptable is then forbidden. This is a French-famous law called Loi Evin, which has been successfully protected by the European Court of Justice several times. See section 2 (2) of our draft. It states that alcohol advertising may only contain nine categories of products: name, type, producer name, trademark, country of origin, geographical area, ethanol content, image and characteristics of the sales package. It is further stated that this information (other than this information must not contain anything at all) must be provided without describing the positive atmosphere, its sound and visual design must be essentially neutral. A list of the conditions that guarantee this neutrality is given. It should also be taken into account that alcohol advertising as outdoor advertising and alcohol advertising in social media are banned. I think that these are nuclear proposals that significantly restrict alcohol advertising and certainly reduce both the volume and attractiveness of alcohol advertising. If the members of the Riigikogu wish to propose a total ban on alcohol advertising, you are, of course, free to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U298	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U299	Honourable President! Minister, I apologise in advance for asking two things at once about impatience, and I am grateful if you consider it possible to answer both questions. 'Separate from other goods', please give it some thought. I have a picture of a small country store where one person is a salesman, manager, janitor, and security guard at the same time. Behind him is usually one of the liquor bottles. In this case, is alcohol separate from other goods? Second, where does it still come from, and why not 500 or 400, why 450 square feet?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U300	Thank you very much. The first question was what, in general, means'separately from other goods'. Go to Tallinn stores and, for example, Viimsi or somewhere else and compare how this happens in these places. In Tallinn shopping centres, alcohol is put in a separate corner. Smaller shops naturally have their own characteristics in this context. We've already met the Merchants' Association and discussed it. For the real implementation not only of this point, but also of many other points, a guide will be developed together with the Consumer Protection Board so that these concepts can be interpreted in a reasonable way. Certainly, our goal is not to demand things that are practically impossible to do or that go to one store or another, in principle, too much. So these issues are already being discussed, and we will definitely come to an agreement with the merchants. The second question was about 450 square meters. It's probably the best way to explain it, so I'm going to tell you the origin of it. In the initial draft of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which everyone can see in the draft information system, the Ministry of Social Affairs had a proposal not to link this requirement to square meters. We have seen from the outset that it is neither possible nor reasonable to create separate "alcohol departments" in small shops. We drew a line in our vision that if the alcohol is self-serviceable, or the person himself puts it in his basket, then this display should be separated, but if the alcohol is sold from the counter, this requirement does not need to be met. The shops could have decided for themselves whether it was reasonable to sell alcohol from the counter or through self-service, in which case as a separate display. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications wanted to protect small shops in the expressis verb, because the social debate on this topic has indeed been very active and there have been appeals. Since our goal was not, in fact, to require separate departments in small shops, we did not object. We asked the Ministry of Economic Affairs to tell us what this reasonable number of square meters would be. This figure was estimated to be some 400 square feet [400 sq m] on the basis of some kind of store classification by merchants themselves. Since several shops are 400 square meters on the border, it was thought that it could be raised a little up to 450. That's the government's understanding. In my opinion, it is important that, broadly speaking, three quarters of shops, or smaller shops, are excluded from this requirement; they do not have this burden. Of course, we liked our own proposal more in the Ministry of Social Affairs, but we also agree with the proposal of the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U301	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that at first reading, every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask two oral questions to the rapporteurs. Since Andres Ammas formally asked two questions, but essentially one two-part question, he will certainly be able to ask one question from the other rapporteur; for my sake, he may also submit it to the first rapporteur. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U302	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. My question is on a broader, human level. I smoke a cigarette sometime, and I'll have a drink sometime. But I'll never be caught with an irresistible desire for smoke or alcohol when I see it somewhere on the counters, and it's certainly not gonna happen to any normal person. For those who get it, banning it and hiding it won't help. What about you guys, so to speak, thinking stupidly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U303	Thank you. This bill doesn't make any sense to me. These are the best international knowledge-based proposals that have been developed by experts from the Ministry of Social Affairs over the past ten years; they have already done so by drafting a Green Paper. As for your claim that seeing alcohol does not affect its consumption, it may seem right emotionally, but it is wrong to judge the facts. This has been confirmed, among other things, by... I am sorry, I have forgotten the name of this psychiatrist, but it has also passed through the Estonian press. He deals with alcohol addicts and has confirmed that just seeing a bottle of alcohol causes the addict's brain to move through processes that affect him to buy alcohol. If you say these people shouldn't be helped, I don't agree with that. These people are estimated to be over 60,000 on very conservative estimates in Estonia. I think it is a very large group and it is certainly important to help them overcome their addiction. It's not to be ridiculed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U304	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U305	Thank you. Mr. Minister! My question is of a fine-tuning nature. I am asking about amendments to the advertising law, according to which alcohol advertising is prohibited on the front and back of newspapers and magazines and their additional publications and in social media networks, except on the alcohol operator's website. Is this for all the newspapers and magazines? For example, there is a special magazine dedicated to beer production in Estonia called Pruul, but there are also many other very specific magazines for specialists. Does this also apply to these publications? Secondly, what does alcohol advertising in social media networks mean? There are a lot of alcohol blogs that describe the taste of drinks, and there are products at prices online. Is this also an alcohol commercial and how to draw this line here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U306	Thank you. In answer to the first question, we are actually extending the existing requirement. This requirement provides that there must be no alcohol advertising on the front and back cover of newspapers and magazines. The point is that the front and back covers of newspapers and magazines work harder than other pages in terms of advertising, as these publications may be lying somewhere for a long time and their front or back covers may be visible, for example, at points of sale. However, the additional editions of newspapers, even for those appearing on the weekend, are currently not subject to the existing restriction, although they can be taken out of the main edition and then they can be lying on tables in the same way and therefore have the same effect. This is, in principle, a clarification of the existing provision and this applies to newspapers and magazines intended for public dissemination. With regard to advertising in social media, in order to make it clear how to implement these changes accurately, it will continue a bit of the answer I gave to Andres Ammas' question, a guide will be created in cooperation with the Consumer Protection Board. We have already been debating advertising on social media. Currently, the Consumer Protection Board also regards the alcohol producer's own Facebook page as advertising. We say you can do anything on your page. If a person wants to know something about another brewer's new production or anything, he will knowingly go to that page. There's no way to release that kind of information. There's no question. However, since the definition of the Consumer Protection Board is different now, we agree exactly on this guide. How does it apply to other possible channels of social media? I guess that's the same thing about guidelines. However, we need to keep in mind what advertising is. Advertising is a concept defined in the Advertising Act, and what we regulate on social media is alcohol operators, whether they be sellers, manufacturers or anyone who does this advertising in an informed marketing activity, in order to increase sales of their products. Perhaps we will not limit it if someone wants to put up a picture of themselves in a beer can, for example, on a social media network. We are not restricting that, it is possible to do so. But we're not gonna let the beer manufacturer, for example, tell me to get a picture of you in the beer box, so you win the scarf. Campaigns like this, it might seem funny, but they're there. Perhaps we do not restrict the freedom of expression of private individuals on social media; people can do what they want, including alcohol, there, but we are restricting the activities of alcohol handlers, which are aimed at influencing consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U307	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U308	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I also have a destructive attitude to alcohol, but only lean, strong, I don't take at all. But what about consumption in Estonia in general? I have the impression that the government hates soft alcohol. What are the risks for Estonian consumers, whether they drink vodka or rather wine and beer? How do we relate to the overall picture of Europe, whether we are rather a people of wine or a people of wine and beer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U309	Thank you, dear Jürgen Ligi. Of course, consumption of different types of alcohol differs from country to country. Understandably, more wine is consumed in southern European countries, while strong alcohol is quite low. The Nordic alcohol culture is more central to strong alcohol. There are also countries where beer consumption is very common. There have been times when, at a scientific level and even more so at a national policy level, lean alcohol is less harmful to public health or society at large than strong alcohol. On this basis, policies have also been put in place, such as lean alcohol, preferred in excise policy, which is still being done in many European countries. Politics has also been done in such a way that, for example, the sale of strong alcohol is subject to certain conditions and other conditions for the sale of lean alcohol. There are still countries like this in the world, such as the Nordic countries, which use this option most in Finland. For example, mild alcohol advertising is considered to be less dangerous than strong alcohol advertising. In the Republic of Estonia, outdoor advertising for strong alcohol is still prohibited, but outdoor advertising for lean alcohol is allowed. With this bill, we will equalise its treatment. In terms of health protection and reducing social harm, there is no reason to prefer lean alcohol to strong alcohol. Ethanol is ethanol, as scientists say. It is true that there is more strong alcohol consumption in Estonia than on average in the European Union, but this consumption has decreased because governments have rightly been evil against strong alcohol, especially in terms of excise policy. Now we are taking the next step, and we are also fairer against lean alcohol than we have been.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U310	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U311	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The Reform Party Group strongly supports the general aim of the law to reduce alcohol consumption, including the provision that alcohol should be placed separately from other goods. But we cannot in any way support this requirement that in shops with more than 450 square metres of sales space, alcohol should be hidden so that it is not visible elsewhere in the sales hall. That's for three reasons. First, there is no impact analysis of how much alcohol is being consumed. Secondly, it is extremely expensive. I think the curtains are not being taken very seriously; this requirement still requires stationary buildings. Market participants estimate the cost of this at EUR 10 million, which ultimately comes from consumers' pockets, including those who do not fall between vodka shelves due to age or healthy lifestyles. Thirdly, this is unequal treatment. You just used the word pair 'unequal treatment'. How do you justify the unequal treatment of larger and smaller shops?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U312	Thank you. It's a shame you don't support it. That's a reasonable suggestion. Indeed, as has been said, it is based on the best international science. There are certainly even more effective measures, but, as I said, this draft does not reduce the total number of outlets for alcohol. But what it says is good and reasoned. You mentioned in your question what has been highlighted as an argument by stakeholders who are negatively affected by these changes. I say this completely objectively, that is a fact, and there is nothing to argue about. People argue against proposals they don't like. Their argument has been that we have not calculated as a percentage point how much alcohol consumption will decrease as a result. As I said, we have not failed to do this, not because we do not want to do this, but because alcohol policy measures, as set out in the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy, and the science on which they are based, say that the measures are complex, shaping together a wider social alcohol culture and the acceptance of its social standard. They gradually change attitudes when attitudes change, then consumption also decreases. I have already brought parallels here and I will once again bring parallels with tobacco policy. 15 years ago smoking was an acceptable social standard in Estonia. People who wanted to go to a restaurant with children, for example, had to accept that they were breathing poison. If they didn't like it, it was their problem, not their smoker problem, because he needed to smoke. We were able to change this norm gradually. Three things were done: a total ban on tobacco advertising since 1998, a ban on indoor smoking and a consistent increase in excise duty. Its results we have begun to see now, years later. Among young people, smoking is no longer popular or at least not as popular as it once was. Smoking is no longer a socially acceptable activity. The general social attitude is that other people do not have to suffer if someone wants to smoke. It's his problem where he does it or where he finds a place to do it and whether he's warm or cold when he smokes. As a result, we have gradually started to see that the prevalence of smoking is decreasing. It's the same with alcohol. We need to break the general social norm so that all of us, at the moment, I areUtreinating at social gatherings, alcohol consumption is the norm. Those who do not drink must explain whether they are taking antibiotics, driving, or pregnant. It's not normal. This attitude is shaped every year for millions of euros, deliberately shaped by alcohol producers through advertising. It must therefore be limited by means of other measures which reduce the availability of alcohol to minors and reduce the visibility of alcohol as such in public spaces. Stores are a public space in the sense that people have to go there to buy groceries. As regards the distinction between smaller and larger shops, these restrictions must, of course, be proportionate. This is a constitutional requirement. An analysis of compliance with the Constitution has also been drawn up on this draft, which is set out in the explanatory memorandum. It has been found that these restrictions are proportionate, necessary and justified. I, without being a lawyer, say that if we told a shop with 50 square meters of sales space to build a separate alcohol department, it would be very difficult to explain how this should be possible in practice. I don't think so. In essence, then, we should say to those shops whose surface is less than a certain number of square meters that they must not sell alcohol. That is why we have not put forward such a proposal. We have made, as has been said, an initial proposal to choose whether alcohol can be bought by self-service or sold from the counter, and smaller shops could be relieved of the additional requirements. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we could move towards excluding smaller shops from this requirement by means of a square meter restriction. We do not justify this at the various costs of large and small shops, but because these technical changes are not physically possible in a smaller shop.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U313	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U314	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The current law contains a chapter entitled "Restrictions in retail sales of alcoholic beverages'. There are some exceptions to airports and ports open to international traffic, as well as to ships. How does this draft affect these areas? Let's think about Tallinn Airport. We can get past the souvenir shop and the newsstand, but with the trails, we're kind of being routed right between the liquor shelves. Do these so-called entrepreneurs retain incentives, exemptions, or do they adopt the same approach to all? What will happen at airports and ports?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U315	Here the ministries had different opinions. Of course, we have also been approached on this issue. In the draft before you today, regulation is equal for everyone, i.e. the alcohol at the airport should also be separate from other goods. If there were large enough stores that didn't exist, but if there were, there would be the same requirement. It is true that I know that the Committee on Economic Affairs has been approached on this matter, that there are also arguments in favour of excluding them from this requirement. This is particularly the case with shipping, with some ships flying one flag and others flying another flag, and with equal treatment for shipping companies should be ensured. The argument has been made that since airports and ports generally serve international passengers, it is less a matter of protecting the health of the Estonian public, let us say so. This is not in the draft, but the Ministry of Social Affairs is prepared to agree on this issue with both sectors. Given the economies, this is not a key issue for our draft and there are some strong rational arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U316	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U317	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the round of coordination, the correct number of parties involved pointed out that the draft had not drawn up a plan for drafting. In response, the Ministry of Social Affairs has said that there is a Green Paper in which all this policy has been written and discussed. I think the Green Paper came into force in February 2014. Has the Ministry achieved an in-depth and scientific analysis of the validity of the objectives set out in the Green Paper, or have proper analyses not yet been carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U318	First of all, as regards the planning for development. The general idea of the intention to develop is to discuss different options before proposing a specific legislative amendment, bring together stakeholders, including professionals and researchers, in order to assess the choice of existing policy instruments. It's the idea of an intention to develop. If we look at what was both the inclusion process and the substantive analysis process in the preparation of the Green Paper and how long all this was done, I would say that there has been no other draft in Estonia as comprehensive and as good a design plan as the Green Paper on alcohol. Maybe I'm going to hurt some of the drafts now, because there's still been some thoroughly prepared drafts. However, it is unwise to make a separate development plan in a situation where all policy options have been discussed and evaluated and interests have been identified, of course they do not match, but they have been identified in principle, i.e. we know why the parties feel the same or different way. After all, it is reasonable that we do not go through the same process for the second time, which is why we relied on the Green Paper agreements. As far as the Green Paper itself is concerned, there are a number of things already being implemented among its measures, as has been said. There is, for example, a more effective organisation of alcohol treatment in implementation. We have carried out a number of communication projects, which I talked about in my presentation. The excise policy has been adjusted. The two important blocks that are currently missing are promotion, i.e. advertising and sales terms. We will fill this gap with this bill. One weakness in the Green Paper is, of course, the very low ambition of the overall objective, i.e. the aim of consuming less than eight litres of absolute alcohol per year per capita. There is, in fact, no other justification than that it is 20% less than consumption at the time when the Green Paper was being developed. The scientific objective is set out in this same WHO global strategy: in societies that consume more than six litres of absolute alcohol per capita per year, the social and economic costs of alcohol are always higher than the sector's contribution to the economy. Perhaps this is where the arguments are going to be very close to one side: action must be taken to protect public health. I think that the level of ambition should be increased in the future. It is true that alcohol consumption in Estonia has gradually decreased in recent years and this is certainly a positive trend. Improving awareness seems to be one of the important reasons why it has gone this way. Of course, excise policy has also produced its own results. However, we see that, unfortunately, alcohol damage has not been reduced in parallel, which means that alcohol deaths are almost at the same level, even though alcohol consumption has been slightly reduced for several years. This leads to the idea that, in recent years, moderate consumers have reduced their alcohol consumption, especially as a result of increased awareness. This very large proportion of people in Estonia who consume excessively, in dangerous quantities, are usually not exposed to these information campaigns. This is one of the general paradoxes of health promotion and prevention: those most in need of protection and assistance are not usually reached with soft measures, so we need to take stronger regulatory measures, which we are doing with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U319	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U320	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is difficult to argue that alcohol advertising can make alcohol consumption more attractive to undeveloped young people. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, there is sufficient convincing evidence and research to this effect. Strangely enough, there is no advertising of drugs in Estonia or in many other countries, but nevertheless their consumption and sales have not decreased, rather on the contrary. How do you explain the paradox? One small supplementary question: have you thought about censoring art? There are movies and shows where drinking is shown in even more attractive ways than in some advertising clips.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U321	Thank you. The answer to the last question is no. But I'm gonna tell you a story that, unfortunately, I don't remember all the details. However, this is very eloquent, and that is why I am talking about it. An Estonian screenwriter wrote a script on a series that one of the main characters, who was a very cool and fun man, maybe even a policeman, I don't remember exactly, was a chain smoker. It just so happens that the writer was also the father of a little boy. One day he went after his child in kindergarten and discovered that his son was playing the same show with the other children. Maybe the boy was a little older because three-year-olds barely watched the show. His son played the main character in the sandbox game and smoked, a branch in his mouth, unbridled. In the next section, the main character quit smoking. So there is no doubt that these cultural concepts also influence the attitudes of society. But the answer to the question of whether we have planned to restrict it by law is no. On the question of drugs, I answer that drugs are undoubtedly a very specific matter, especially in the case of strong drugs. Their spread is primarily due to their very strong dependence. Whether or not you show a fentanyl ad to a fentanyl addict has a very small effect on his intake. When we talk about the use of young drugs, we are talking primarily about cannabis. The good news is that cannabis use among Estonian schoolchildren has almost not increased in the last ten years. Although cannabis is being used, of course it is a problem, this use has remained stable and is being done less than in some other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U322	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U323	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have to say, the most sympathetic quality of stupidity is that he likes to show himself to everyone. You, of course, are soots. It was clear from your words today that you do not know how the economy works, and you do not care how it works. Looking at your excise policy, too, it is quite clear that the real result of all your anti-alcohol policy is the closure of small shops and country shops and the execution of the Latvian state budget. Your entire alcohol policy is like an elephant in a porcelain store. I ask you if you would like to reconsider and change your stupid policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U324	Thank you. Excise duties are not part of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U325	Tiit Terik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U326	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! Alcohol advertising also reaches us indirectly. Many of us remember a great New Year's concert, a football arena, a big hall, and certainly a rocking basketball club. It may be disputed whether there are non-alcoholic drinks with similar brands, but I have a strong feeling that giving names to events, businesses and buildings that are clearly linked to alcohol is still for advertising purposes. What are you up to with these indirect ads?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U327	Thank you. That's the right question. For example, in the case of tobacco, such a thing is forbidden; Philip Morris' big hall or football club cannot be. The issue of alcohol was raised in the context of putting together the Green Paper, but this proposal is not in this draft. If the trade mark does not refer directly to the alcohol product itself, for example, does not contain an image of the alcohol product or anything like that, the use of the trade mark for promotion purposes is permitted. I think this question should certainly be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U328	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U329	Thank you. Good minister! Like you, I am of the opinion that the purpose of the draft is very noble, but I do not share your view on the solutions proposed. In my opinion, these solutions are short-sighted and do not solve the problem. The direction is once again, including in this bill, orders and prohibitions. I have always felt that they did not work, rather working on educating and communicating people. I don't have much faith in this law as it is. But my question is about social media and online advertising. You said you didn't know everything yet. However, before adopting the law, you might know how this regulation will work. For example, you say that in social media, a company must not advertise itself. But if he recruits a thousand people who share his page, is that okay? Is it okay if, for example, in e-Selver, where I can buy groceries, I get booze?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U330	First of all, the answer to your first remark. It's not a question of faith, let's finish this conversation. Thousands of scientists have been working for many years. I can read it to you, and I have already done it on this console, all the studies that confirm the effectiveness of these measures. There are dozens and dozens of these studies. Long long-term studies, experimental studies and econometric studies have been conducted, meta-studies have been carried out. They all confirm that, as a result, cost-effectiveness measures have been proposed in the WHO's alcohol strategy. The countries have agreed to these measures. These things work, but it's not a question of faith. It is not a question of religion whether alcohol is linked to a higher number of deaths or not. It's not a question of faith, it's a question of fact. It's exactly the same here, it's a matter of fact. Of course, some individual measures may seem strange to people because they do not know what its scientific background is. There are certainly people who are opposed to one measure or another, in themselves, are understandable when, for some reason, a person opposes one measure or another, but it is not sufficient to say that these measures do not work because I feel that way. There is a general logic in the development of science-based policies, and I am based on it. Speaking of orders and prohibitions, it can be said that this is a beautiful propaganda expression, but as well as saying that banning drunken driving is also a policy of orders and prohibitions. Indeed, in cases where conflicting interests arise, where the interests of the various parties in society differ, regulation is required. The regulation, of course, sets the frame. I have said and said once again that we are not restricting people's right to knowingly buy and consume alcohol products. They can do it without limit, as much as they want. We restrict the right of companies and the possibility of imposing these products on people in order to make them more consumed. We are doing this because the costs that society will incur as a result are very high. Alcohol is a drug caused by which the social costs are much higher than those incurred by individual individuals. This is to a greater extent than, for example, tobacco. Perhaps when we talk about the argument of freedom, we cannot only talk about the freedom of the individual, but we must also talk about the freedom of other members of society. We take these same road deaths, we take domestic violence, all these cases are alcohol-related. You were talking about an announcement. Information is very important and it has been done. This has been done very, very strongly in the Republic of Estonia in recent years under the leadership of the Ministry of Social Affairs and must be continued. The WHO Global Strategy also says that it is part of a complex alcohol policy that shapes society. Producers spend roughly EUR 2 million a year to shape alcohol policy so that alcohol consumption is a normal phenomenon, part of a good life. They shape this concept, they shape society, they shape people's attitudes, they spend two million euros on it. Of course, for its part, the state must take steps to inform about the risks associated with alcohol. Of course you have to. The country has so far done so and will continue to do so. Perhaps you have not noticed, therefore, I repeat: the problem of communication is that those we want to reach most and those who have the greatest concern about excessive alcohol consumption are the least open to communication, least prone to it. This is a broader part of health inequalities, but not just that. Take, for example, the second area of lifelong learning. It will be more attended by those who already have a higher level of qualification. The question arises as to how to reach those most needed to be helped. Information must therefore be continued, but this is not enough. Now the question of social media. Indeed, as has been said, work on how to implement this procedure accurately is already underway with the Consumer Protection Board. In our proposals on the regulation of more common promotional practices, we have seen as an example of Finland, which has been regulated for several years and has reviewed and analysed the ways in which producers have been promoting so far. The principle is that producers should not advertise on social media for money; they should not, in principle, impose any product on people by means of promotion. It should also not be possible to obtain this product free of charge. However, if a person knowingly wants to go to the alcohol handler's website, that is allowed. If an individual wants to post anything on his or her social account, that is his or her right, no one limits it. If this is a post that his private friends want to share, then there is no limit to it. However, with this draft, we are restricting, for example, the campaigns of producers whose aim is to call on consumers to create its content. I gave an example of a campaign that has actually taken place when the brewer said to post a picture of you in a beer box, so you can get a scarf as a present. In the future, campaigns of the type by which the alcohol producer or operator deliberately tries to promote and disseminate its messages would be prohibited. But the person's own freedom to post whatever remains in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U331	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U332	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. There is such a desire that the law can be unambiguous. But questions have been raised by this positive atmosphere in advertising. This is prohibited, but it is permitted to indicate the geographical area. So who's gonna decide that? For example, how do we northern people feel about a nice southern seashore, where in a cool time it would be good to put our feet in the water, and where maybe there's a nice beer whistle like that? As a Nordic man, such a seashore and beautiful nature do create a positive mood. But who appreciates what is allowed and what is not allowed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U333	Firstly, as has been said, a specific guide will be developed together with the Consumer Protection Board. It will deal with (and continue to deal with) infringements of the advertising law. The general principle is that alcohol advertising must be neutral. That's the wording. There is a special mention of what should not be included in such adverts. Of course, if we do not just ban alcohol advertising, but we start regulating it one way or the other, then there will be border cases like this, because producers or advertisers will try to touch where that limit goes exactly. That is why the original draft of the Ministry of Social Affairs had a harsher wording. It was envisaged that the advertising should not use sound and visual design elements and that the image of the sales package and the word description of the product should, in principle, be on a monochrome background. This requirement was considered by the government partners to be a little too harsh. It was feared that there would be no advertising at all then, and it was thought that advertising should retain some form of attractiveness. Well, we came up and made the wording a little bit lighter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U334	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U335	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, In my most extreme fantasy, I cannot imagine how the institutions of the Republic of Estonia will control the entire social media or what the salary cost of controlling it should be. But actually, I wanted to talk about advertising. We can imagine the near future when, for example, a static picture of a Saku beer bottle is displayed on one of the Estonian TV channels, and a passionate robot voice in the background says that it is Saku beer, 4.5%, and everything, but if I change the channel and start watching Viasa History or Discovery, then I will continue to see beautiful young people take a bottle of Carlsberg beer from inside the dazzling ice cubes on a hot summer day. Do you not think that, in the end, the only effect of this advertising restriction is to create a competitive advantage for a foreign alcohol producer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U336	Thank you. Firstly, enforcement of advertising bans on social media. That's the right question. It was not formulated as a question, but I will answer it. This, of course, has been presented before. You see, the honourable and respected producers who are delivering on this market do not really want to break the law. We have a total ban on tobacco advertising since 1998. If anyone wanted to, they could still advertise tobacco products to people in Estonia via Google server or another country server. You might wonder how we're gonna find out who did it, and how we're gonna limit it. The same may be asked about social media. But what is reality? There is no tobacco advertising in Estonia, neither on the Internet nor on social media. This gives assurance that the same goes for alcohol advertising. In my opinion, it is unthinkable for Estonian producers to start advertising in a situation where there is a ban on advertising alcohol in social media in Estonia. And it can be verified, there is a monitoring procedure. If you ask if any foreign producers are going to do this, I must say that there is currently no understanding that they could do this. That's one. Secondly, two main advertisers on the Internet and social media, both Google and Facebook, have firmly stated in their corporate policies that they are governed by national law and do not do what national law prohibits. This is the issue of the enforcement and actual applicability of this regulation. This means that there will be no more jobs. Honestly, I forgot the question. [[Interjection.]] Yes, as far as the channels in other countries are concerned, this advertising is, of course, possible there in principle. It can be said that also in football matches, beer manufacturers show their logos. However, the volume of this advertising in terms of the real media consumption of Estonian people is still marginal. So most people in Estonia would certainly see either significantly less or much more neutral advertising due to this restriction. Indeed, alcohol producers have very consistently highlighted the argument that if we restrict alcohol advertising, foreign alcohol brands will win. This is not confirmed by the experience of other countries. Rather, these experiences confirm that alcohol stamps in their country are already well known and that in a situation where there is less alcohol advertising, increasing brand recognition is the most important reason for advertising. If you say to any Estonian person that he should name two beer brands, the majority of them will probably name two Estonian beer brands. So the experience in other countries confirms the opposite: local producers will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U337	Oudekki Loone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U338	Thank you. Good waitress! When you read the explanatory memorandum to this draft, there are a lot of references to Nordic alcohol policies, such as Finland and Norway. At the same time, these are countries with relatively high levels of alcohol consumption. According to World Health Organisation data for 2010, Finland is, for example, ranked 16. At the same time, for example, Italy is in the 87th place, but if you look at the alcohol policy there, it turns out that alcohol is considerably easier to catch in Italy and in several other southern European countries. For what reason have such ways of conducting alcohol policy not been taken into account? Why has it been decided to go clearly only on Nordic roads, even though other options have actually been used in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U339	Thank you. That is a good and important question. Firstly, of course, European societies drink a lot in view of the world context. Europe simply drinks the most, i.e. the world that consumes the most alcohol. Indeed, there are quite large differences in alcohol culture within the European Union. Estonia is one of the countries where consumption with very high levels of alcohol harm prevails. In short, when drinking, large quantities are drunk, or consumed at the same time, and often do so. An area with this pattern of consumption begins in Ireland, moves on to Great Britain and the Nordic countries and then reaches the Baltic States. In southern Europe, the culture of alcohol consumption is different, completely true, and they also have different social acceptance standards for alcohol consumption than there are in Estonia. For example, serious drunkenness at home or in the family circle is not generally considered to be very acceptable, but we do so every day in a large number of families. In this sense, these cultures are different. These measures, which can reduce alcohol consumption at any of these levels, work in themselves in Italy and France. For example, France, which has a different alcohol culture, rather a wine culture, has significantly reduced alcohol consumption in recent decades as a result of changes. I do not know the Italian dynamics from a long perspective, but I can say that the situation in France has improved a lot. There is no other way for the state to change such socially acceptable attitudes, apart from being able to carry out the information campaigns that we have been doing. There are not many more of these measures. Let's take the same campaign's halfway down! '. Such a border argument, which we have presented in public space, is certainly good, but given the patterns of alcohol consumption that are common in our culture, say, and the extent to which we have the proportion of alcohol abusers and addicts, stronger regulatory measures are essential. These measures have produced results in the Nordic countries. Iceland has been particularly successful lately, as is well known to everyone, but Sweden and Norway have also had quite good results. Finland is always referred to as the main counter-argument. Of course, the situation in Finland is also poor, it is true. However, the decisions to mitigate alcohol policy that Finland has recently taken have led to an increase in alcohol consumption rather than a decrease. On the other hand, Finnish alcohol consumption has, of course, been affected in recent years by the purchase of alcohol from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U340	Andrei Novikov.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U341	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You are planning to supplement Section 52 of the Alcohol Act with a bill and to establish regulation of the control transaction. At the same time, it is clear that a breach of the requirements of this law is more likely to result in a misdemeanour. Looking at the regulation of the control transaction itself, I get the impression that this is a simulation, which is dogmatically excluded in the case of misdemeanour. Despite the fact that I consider this control transaction justified, I ask you, do you not think there might be a problem here, precisely as to the fact that this operation is a kind of imitation that is forbidden?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U342	Thank you. I have to admit, I'm not a lawyer. This provision has been developed in close cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, it is written in the wording proposed by them. This topic was under discussion and the aim was to create a regulation that would not qualify for imitation. This provision or paragraph itself also contains limitations, not a number of conspiracy techniques, etc. But I must honestly admit that my legal competence in this matter is insufficient to give you an exhaustive answer. I can say that this provision in this bill is in the wording proposed by the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice will certainly be able to answer this question in a much more precise and exhaustive manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U343	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U344	Thank you. I'll come back to my previous line and question. I am, in general, a man of science's faith. But science claims that smoking, for example, is harmful to health, but when we look at real life, it turns out that even the best of us have problems with smoking. Science claims that alcohol is harmful to health. If you don't drink alcohol, you don't get drunk at all, yet people drink. It's not about science, I really believe in science. It is a question of orders and refusals, of methodology, of how you are trying to implement this policy. But now a concrete example. You said that in social media, the company must not advertise itself. If I wanted to advertise myself as an entrepreneur, I'd recruit a thousand people who I'd ask to share my Facebook page and write to my friends, that we all go to a party together and buy this or another alcoholic drink. How are you trying to limit it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U345	Thank you. Of course, it is not possible to foresee all possible tricks at the time of drafting the law that can be used to circumvent one or the other limitation. I'm assuming that's the idea that some alcoholics might have. I don't think that's allowed. How can this be foreseen in the Consumer Protection Guide in terms of implementation of the law? I'll take that idea from here, and we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U346	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U347	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In my opinion, you have left the question of Martin Helme completely unanswered, confirming that the alcohol excise policy is not linked to the draft we are debating today. In my opinion, on the contrary, they are very closely linked. If you are not familiar with the real life here in Tallinn and far away, how life in South Estonia has now been turned upside down because of the different excise rates in Latvia and Estonia, then it is very bad. You should get into it and learn how much it has affected South Estonia's life. For example, the manager of the Varstu store told me that the sale of strong alcohol in his shop had decreased by 60% and the sale of lean alcohol and foodstuffs by 40%. This has been caused by all these visits to Latvia and so on. There's nothing to laugh about, even though there's some guy in the second row, I'll look, smiling at what I'm saying. But go see how life really works in South Estonia. Here's the question. You said before that a lot of research has been done on alcohol consumption. Is there a specific survey of how much damage is caused to Estonia by the different excise duties on alcohol in Latvia and Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U348	Thank you very much. But I will indeed repeat this: if you read this bill, this bill is five pages long, you will see that no word in there concerns excise duties on alcohol. I really don't, I don't lie, you can check it out. Buying alcohol from Latvia has recently been researched by the Conjuncture Institute on www.ki.ee website and has found that 7% of residents in Latvia and 15% in South Estonia have visited all of Estonia specifically after alcohol. To some extent, this has, of course, reduced planned excise revenue, but this has been taken into account by the government when drawing up the budget. The exact bill can be told by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U349	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U350	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. One line first. It was against me in your speech or in your choice of words that you were always cursing these pagan producers, like pushing us into a bottle of vodka and forcing us to drink. But you never set a personal example, including the personal example of those present in this hall, both in the family, where parents show the example of whether to drink or not, and in society, including the anniversary celebrations of the Republic of Estonia, where the Estonian elite goes around with glass in their hands. It's affecting, I think, and you could draw some conclusions from that. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it's gotten better on the one hand, because it's out of there the most ridiculous things, like banning sales at gas stations and a few more things. What is left of it can actually be mentioned precisely those restrictions for making alcohol invisible at the store. But there is no word in this bill for this problematic group, for alcoholics. You don't scare them away from drinking by restricting advertising or hiding them in a liquor store. Perhaps it would help them if they knew what to do, who to turn to for treatment? Is there any way to improve this at the level of the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U351	Thank you very much, good Valdo! I'm glad you agree with me that this law has gotten even better. With regard to setting an example, this is, of course, extremely important. It is quite clear that young people's basic attitudes will follow the example of their parents. Parental education as such is undoubtedly very important in this context. The question is simply that it is not something that can be regulated at the level of the law. In principle, it is possible to include in the law a provision that parents should set a good example for young people when they drink alcohol. But I do not think that this provision will help us much further. The strengthening of parental education, true, is being carried out both in the Ministry of Social Affairs and in some other ministries. As far as addicts are concerned, the treatment of alcoholism is certainly a very important keyword here. We must recognise that there has been insufficient progress in this area in previous years. We have a wider range of mental health problems in the treatment.. also addiction is poor access to psychiatric disorder. This also means a shortage of staff. The situation has improved a little in recent years, but there is still much room for improvement. There are clearly too few fixed treatment sites for alcohol dependence, given that we have about 60,000 alcohol addicts on conservative estimates. This problem is being dealt with, and not just through the law. This is done with the Health Promotion programme 'Kainem and Healthier Estonia'. The website of the Institute for Health Development can be consulted in more detail. It is now in the start-up phase, with some EUR 10 million earmarked for all years. This programme consists of two parts. The first part provides for initial counselling of alcohol dependence disorder, contact at the level of a family doctor. We are currently looking for family doctors as partners to include this topic in our first-level advisory services, some of which have already been awarded contracts. The second part of the project means psychiatric assistance provided at the hospital to help people even in more difficult cases. Some hospitals have already signed contracts, but there are still insufficient ones. The next stage of the competition, if I'm right in memory, will be this month. We want to significantly improve the availability of the programme. On the initiative of the Institute for Health Development, we have created a portal for people who have alcohol problems, such as Alkoinfo.ee, so that information about alcohol is better available. In fact, it is also intended for all other people, including parents. You can get to know it, too. So we have finally taken the necessary steps. I forgot to mention that there is a well-established code of treatment for alcohol dependence in the health clinic, i.e. we have an agreement between the various health stakeholders on how to deal with this disease. On this basis, this new programme will be implemented. So the situation is getting better, but it could certainly have been dealt with five or seven years ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U352	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U353	Thank you. Dear Minister, Today Tallink, one of Estonia's largest employers and one of the most successful companies in Scandinavia and the Baltic States, announced that if the law was adopted in its current form, they would very seriously consider moving their passenger ships from the flag of Estonia to the flags of other countries, as this law would clearly restrict their competitiveness and require additional costs. Tallink is also known to be one of the largest social tax payers, with nearly EUR 30 million per year coming from Tallink. How do you consider this risk, and are you prepared to lose passenger ships under the Estonian flag and with it nearly 30 million euros of social tax per year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U354	The funny story is with you, Mr. Madison. I've been here for several hours, and I've already answered that question, but you're asking again. I will then say again that we are aware of this issue more broadly. In addition to Tallink, the airport has raised this issue. We agree with this exception. This is not in the bill at the moment. I have also told the members of the Committee on Economic Affairs that this is not a priority issue from the point of view of protecting the health of people in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U355	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U356	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, To begin with, I also say that, of course, I agree with the noble aims of the law, but I do have some methods that raise my questions. As a person involved in advertising, I'm still asking about advertising. I believe that the law must be unambiguous and leave as little interpretation as possible. Yes, it was clear to everyone that the time limit for advertising on television, for example, is also today. If the ad was shown before the right time, it was bad. But who measures whether advertising contains a positive emotion or not, what does this new law require? It's a cognitive question, it's not measurable. Aren't you afraid of endless disputes and maybe court cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U357	Thank you. Well, then, since my time is not limited, I can explain such an important subject in greater detail. Let's look at the current regulation on alcohol advertising. Paragraph 28 (3) of the Advertising Act states what alcohol advertising may not do or contain. There is, for example, such a sentence that it must not provide information, events and activities in such a way as to give the impression that alcohol consumption increases social and sexual success, improves physical performance or is important for achieving good results in some areas of life. It states that alcohol advertising must not include the claim that alcohol has an incentive, soothing or pro-controversial effect. There's a few more of these things. Perhaps these current provisions are, by their very nature, roughly the same as what you mentioned, and this has made their implementation very difficult. For example, do you know Saaremaa vodka? Its old slogan was 'Let's have a good time! '. It took a long time for us to get out of the relationship between alcohol consumption and pleasure. There was a very long debate to achieve this. We don't want to argue, of course we don't want to, that thing should be clear. In fact, the first part of this amendment protects us against this. Perhaps now, if the law says what advertising must not do or contain, then in the future, the law will provide an exhaustive list of things that may be included in alcohol advertising. I have already listed them: the name, the image of the bottle of alcohol, the name of the producer, the country of origin, which colour and how strong this alcohol is. It limits this matter and makes it easier to monitor. There will certainly be some borderline cases, no doubt they will. In the end, only the same would be possible: if alcohol advertising were banned at all, just as tobacco or narcotics advertising is prohibited, there would be no dispute that is allowed and not allowed advertising. The general advertising law is not a law of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Unfortunately, the advertising law is very interpretative. Let's see § 3 'Principal requirements'. These are such that advertising, for example, must not be contrary to good manners and practices. Who appreciates it? Well, then, the Consumer Protection Board will assess whether or not advertising is contrary to good manners and practices.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U358	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U359	Thank you! Good minister! It was very nice to hear that the discussion finally came to the problem of addicts and that something was planned with them. My question is that the measures that are set out in the draft do not concern real addicts; they are primarily intended for people who may be hidden addicts and who themselves deny it, and for people who already know that they have problems. But they're outnumbered. I'm asking about a job with addicts. Is there any hope that those who are in so-called hopeless situations and who are unlikely to read the websites will also be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U360	Thank you very much. As I said, there's a new drug treatment program for alcohol addiction, it's already working. Since this is an important subject, I took the specific facts out of it. As of the end of last year, five hospitals offered treatment for alcohol dependence under this programme (in the short term we expand this service): University of Tartu Hospital, which received 260 people in four months, South-Estonian Hospital or Võru Hospital, which received 73 people in four months, Pärnu Hospital, which received 26 people in four months, North-Estonian Regional Hospital, which received 83 people, and Viljandi Hospital, which received 185 people in five months. So in the first four months, 627 people began receiving treatment for alcoholism. But we want to extend this service geographically so that it is available in every county. This is a bit limited by the question of wider availability of psychiatric assistance, but basically we are moving that way. As regards the measures to be taken for one target group or another, the conservative estimates in Estonia include 60000 alcohol addicts. The general idea of alcohol addicts is that they are usually men who drink strong beer from a plastic bottle behind a village shop. But in fact, there are a very large proportion of people who are addicted to alcohol who work every day and maybe it is not always known that they suffer from alcohol addiction. In addition, a pilot study by the Institute for Health Development on alcohol dependence has estimated that the proportion of men who consume too much alcohol, i.e. at dangerous levels, is more than half in Estonia. Perhaps we are talking about a very large number of people who drink too much alcohol in Estonia, and we have to deal with all of them. We can't just deal with those who drink behind the village shop, but we have to deal with them too. Of course, it is a question of raising awareness in order to be able to get help at all. It is certainly also important to change attitudes in society at large; we are trying to promote the attitude that addiction is a disease. However, very often, more for drug addiction, but also for alcohol dependence, the question is why you have to spend money to treat these people, drink or inject them yourself is to blame. As a society, we need to understand that it is a psychiatric illness. Psychiatric illness should be treated as a disease. Unfortunately, this concept is not very often found in society. This certainly also prevents these people from coming to seek help. However, so far, there has been a major problem, and we honestly acknowledge that it has not been possible to get the help. Evidence-based psychiatric assistance has been very limited. Now this capacity has developed. We have a code of treatment for alcoholism, along with psychiatrists, that tells us how these people should be treated. We have money, the program is working, and, as has been said, we hope that during this year it will be possible to extend it to all counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U361	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U362	Thank you. If with such unprecedented enthusiasm you harass normal people and entrepreneurship and harm the competitiveness of businesses, you will increase the gap between people. Don't you guys think about that at all? Doesn't that mean anything to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U363	Firstly, I must reiterate that we are not restricting people's right to buy and consume alcohol. We do this neither enthusiastically nor with the lack of enthusiasm. We're not restricting. There is no limit to this bill, and the Ministry of Social Affairs does not have such plans. We want to give people the freedom to make their decisions on alcohol consumption on their own, on the one hand, of course, free from addiction, but on the other hand, free from the very aggressive promotions that alcohol operators direct against people. It's as simple as that. It is true that the business community that is engaged in this area is reluctant to adopt these changes. I'm sure it is. Of course, they hire lawyers and PR companies, and they've also gotten some politicians' faith. If, with these amendments, we even restrict the entrepreneurial freedom of a small number of businesses, that is objectively the case, but as a result, we will get a healthier society by taking the evidence-based measures recommended by the best research in the world, then I think it is the responsibility of the state to take steps to tighten up alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U364	Terje Trei.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U365	Thank you! Good minister! I'll put it together. You're actually here to ask for more tools in your toolbox. But right now there are a number of things in the toolbox that don't work, whether or not the availability of alcohol to minors, because in every store this check doesn't work and it's still heard that minors have received alcohol. Should you not, within the framework of this law, ask for more tools, but rather more commitment to the activities of minors and to all this? Right now, you're asking us for a really sharp scalpel and everything, but maybe you can't do it eventually and some tools will not be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U366	Thank you. As far as minors are concerned, most of them, as I said, themselves confirm that it is very easy to get alcohol. Check shopping at different types of outlets at the Institute for Health Development showed that the least asked was the document at filling stations, perhaps in about 75% of cases, but also in large shops, or shopping centres, about half the time the document was not asked, so it is not a problem for individual shops, but a widespread situation: alcohol is sold to minors very often without asking for a document. One of the reasons for this is that this toolbox, as you called it, is not enough. The police can initiate proceedings if someone complains and if they can prove that this happened. However, it rarely happens that someone complains. Secondly, it is possible when a policeman happens to be following himself and just seeing it. Proactive procedure, there is currently no possibility of supervision, but regulation of the control transaction creates this possibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U367	Igor Kravtšenko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U368	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is no secret that a very large part of our society lives in the information and media space of a neighbouring country, to say the least. I don't recall seeing alcohol commercials on TV there. I would like to ask your assessment of how this has affected the habits and health of this part of society or of these people. Have you studied it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U369	I have to be honest with you that I cannot take a position on the volumes of alcohol advertising on television channels in a neighbouring country. I don't know about that. But as far as this issue is concerned more generally, in terms of attitudes, the support of the Estonian Russian-speaking population for the measures of the Ministry of Social Affairs is greater than the support of the Estonian-speaking population. Why is it like this, you can discuss it, I'm not going to introduce my interpretation theories from this speaker board. But if we talk about the problem as such in general terms, we have to say that there is no great difference in attitudes between nations. Both Estonians and Russians often consume alcohol and drink a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U370	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U371	Thank you. Good Evgeny! I have a feeling that my definition of freedom and yours are quite different. You speak of freedom as something that is achieved by means of orders and prohibitions, I would define freedom as a choice. You define freedom by George Orwell's 1984, as slavery is freedom. But it was just a remark, actually, I wanted to ask you. When you were talking about addiction, addiction and all that, you said it couldn't be regulated by law. Yes, he can. This law is called the state budget. If there is little money in the state budget, perhaps you have thought about whether or not to accept an alcohol producer's proposal, as far as I know, has been done several times to set up some kind of fund for research or treatment, for example for alcohol addicts? We could make agreements with alcohol producers and take money from them, the state could add to its share and contribute to the treatment instead of nipping off some small advertising restrictions and things that addicts absolutely don't care about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U372	Dear Valdo, I'm glad we're talking about freedom. I'm sorry, but as a professional philosopher, I can't help commenting on your remark! Indeed, perhaps we have a different understanding of the concept of freedom. I am a supporter of the idea of johnstuartmile positive freedom that freedom is not simply a lack of restrictions on man's functioning, but a social framework and real opportunities for man to realise his freedoms. The absence of restrictions does not in itself allow this. As the classic example suggests, the freedom to buy bread is not much freedom if you do not have the money to buy it. So is alcohol policy. We really want people to have the freedom to drink or not to drink, to drink as much or as much, and to drink this or another product. We want them to be free to make those decisions. In order for them to be able to make these decisions, it is certainly important that we protect addicts, but also reduce the impact of this fund, which aims to shape alcohol culture and direct people to drink more. The amount of this fund is in the order of EUR 2 million. This alcohol producer fund already exists, two million a year spent convincing people to drink more. I think our interests are different from those of alcohol producers, radically different. Alcohol producers have a legitimate interest in earning income for their shareholders, yes, I understand them, but it is our duty to protect people, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U373	Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U374	Thank you. Dear Minister, My question is about advertising and anti-advertising. As we know, it is a statutory obligation to put anti-advertisement on packages of cigarettes. I mean, these horrible pictures of internal organs and skulls and everything that's in there. There is no such obligation to label alcoholic beverages. Is there a scientific basis why tobacco and alcohol are treated and labelled differently? Secondly, I have a proposal that I made to the Minister for Culture, but which does not fall within his remit. What do you think about replacing these horrible pictures with text on cigarette packs and also obliging alcohol to be labelled with such a text that the money from excise duties on alcohol and tobacco will go to the Riigikogu to cover the expenses of members of the Riigikogu? Perhaps it would have a much greater effect than the restrictions set out in your draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U375	Thank you. Interesting proposal, but to your regret, it must be said that the labelling requirements for tobacco products are set out in the European Union Tobacco Directive and are very precise. The images and texts on the packages are the result of decisions at European Union level. With our decision, we cannot change that. More importantly, what you know very well as the former Minister for Agriculture is that alcohol is not subject to any labelling rules that apply, for example, to food in the European Union. If you're asking if there's a reason, the answer is no. The European Commission has requested this, but the Council of the European Union has considered that alcohol bottles do not deserve mandatory health warnings, compositional descriptions or calories, not to mention some more stringent safety notices or warning images. It is certainly appropriate to ask why this is so, but I cannot say anything but that the lobby of alcohol producers has been strong in many other countries, apart from Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U376	Marko Šorin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U377	Thank you, manager. Dear Minister, To make sure that this long discussion does not result in the impression that the members of the Riigikogu feel terribly harassed when it comes to alcohol control, I have the simple question: do you agree with the statement that the positive effects of your efforts will only be understood in years' time, but then, unfortunately, these doubters today will no longer come to thank you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U378	I think Valdo Randpere, for example, is coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U379	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U380	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! If you look back in time, you can say that this debate has been held with you and you have been presenting the same draft for about two years. During this time, you have promised different things, including pan-European regulations and everything else, but the quality of the draft has not improved much. We also looked at several pieces of it yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs. They all need to be improved, that is my opinion, and it seems to me that the majority of the Commission is also convinced. But I will ask you a question that was also at issue in our initial debates a year ago. What is the reason that this bill was not preceded by an impact analysis? Why, for example, is there no comprehensive comparison with Finnish alcohol policy? It's been a lot tougher, but I hear people are drinking alcohol there. Why is that? What has Finland done wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U381	Thank you, Mr Michal. I have to repeat myself again. I have already answered these questions today, but, of course, I am happy to reply once more as a result of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. As far as the development plan is concerned, its aim and purpose is to identify options, possible policies and, at all, the 'toolbox' that could be implemented to solve one problem or another. I think that makes sense in itself. However, in cases where this toolbox of policy measures has already been analysed and confirmed in a national document, it is not reasonable to go through this phase for a second time. I am thinking now of the development of a Green Paper on alcohol, which included stakeholders. There has already been a huge number of compromises and a large number of issues which, in the opinion of international science, would have been important for public health have been removed. In the meantime, for a year and a half since the adoption of the Green Paper on Alcohol (the Social Minister was then Taavi Rõivas and since September 2015 I have been the Minister of Health and Labour), neither the Ministry of Social Affairs nor the global authorities have developed new knowledge that would have required a review of this policy framework. As a result, we implemented the orientations and policy instruments agreed there in this draft. Of course, members of the Riigikogu, like all Estonian citizens, have the right to support or oppose any restrictions. If I could remember what the other question was, I'd answer it. Oh, yes, Finland, of course! As far as other countries are concerned, it should be borne in mind that the starting position has been different between countries. For the Nordic countries, the main point is that their overall alcohol consumption culture is very similar to that of Estonia: strong alcohol and consumption of very large quantities at once. In this sense, these countries are better comparable than Estonia and Italy, for example, for which a comparison was requested. Another difference from Estonia is that these countries have been able to apply these regulations longer than we have. The Nordic countries are pursuing a similar alcohol policy with certain nuanced differences. Three Nordic countries (Finland, Sweden and Norway) implement the Alcohol Monopoly system. There are certain differences that can and cannot be sold in regular shops, but there is a strong restriction on the number of sales outlets in this statistics for Sweden I mentioned at the beginning, there are strong advertising restrictions and quite vigorous excise policy, let's say that. Of course, information and parental education are added and all other measures, including treatment, are certainly at a better level than they have been in Estonia so far. Sweden has managed to maintain a lower level of alcohol consumption than we have, and Norway has also been able to do so very successfully, especially in recent years, among young people in Iceland. But Finland really does have problems. Unfortunately, alcohol consumption in Finland has not decreased in the last ten years. Their own analysis, I think, is adequate, points out that this is due to Estonia, not to the fact that the restrictions applied would not have had an impact. Finland has relaxed its alcohol policy. Each time alcohol policy is relaxed, it has been accompanied by an increase in alcohol harm. One example of this is that, according to memory, the explanatory statement is not going to be broken, that if they promised to sell beer in shopping malls, the amount of alcohol damage increased exponentially. We have seen it broadly, and they themselves have seen the same, at least from the public health side. It is true that in Finland too, the lobby of alcohol producers has quite a strong force. It is also true that the new Finnish government has had disagreements with the Minister for Health on what should be done in alcohol policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U382	Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U383	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! After all, questions have arisen about the example of Finland. It's our close neighbors. For example, if you look at sales point restrictions, it turns out that there are about six outlets against our 200. However, as you describe, the situation is similar to that of Estonia. In Finland, the liberalisation of alcohol trade is under consideration. So it seems to me that the quality of the analysis has suffered from this in the draft. You have not described it, although it has been asked several times. The second part of my question concerns the statements made in the Green Paper. You love to rely on this book. The main things dealt with there are the price and availability of alcohol to minors. If it had been relied on, the law would have been passed. Do you not think that it would have been more reasonable to start two years ago with the intention of developing this draft and consulting the parties? Perhaps we would have achieved the desired result by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U384	Thank you. As I said, the views of the various parties on alcohol policy were made very thoroughly clear during the drafting of the Green Paper. It's all fixed, all the participants were at the table and their positions were fixed. We understand that views do not always coincide. It's very logical and understandable. As has been said many times, it is a commercial interest for people to consume more alcohol, but it is the interest of the state that people consume less. That's the point. Let us look at the measures of the Green Paper. You mentioned the price. But these measures are under the WHO framework, I don't know where you were at the beginning when I talked about it in a total of ten. The Green Paper is based on the WHO Global Strategy Framework and all ten measures are in it. The first two measures, 4.1 and 4.2, are: 4.1 "Limiting the availability of alcohol' and 4.2 "Limiting the promotion of alcoholic beverages'. Only then will price and tax policies be reached there. The truth is that alcohol producers do not like this bill, and it is true that you have also put forward their arguments. The truth is that alcohol producers have brought me a different bill on paper and said that I would accept it, it would work. I have been guided in policy-making by my vows and the best knowledge of alcohol harm reduction in the world and Estonia. Consequently, no viable, scientifically or internationally proven alternative proposal has been put forward in the meantime. It's just been said that we could make more billboards. Well, it can be done, we have done them, but this measure does not work on its own. What is there to worry about, for a year and a half this draft has been pending, a social debate has been thorough. But in general, that is why the entry into force of the law has been delayed for six months. In my opinion, it is important that the draft has a real impact, not a cosmetic one, on the reduction in alcohol consumption. The compromises you proposed in your time would certainly have made this draft cosmetic.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U385	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U386	We are talking about a very complex matter, Mr Minister, so it is very important that we speak clearly and understand the words in the same way. I have a feeling I've understood you. I understand all the questioners, too. I don't have a problem. But about ten minutes ago, there was this place that made the picture crazy. On the one hand, we all recognise that in Finland it is a alcohol monopoly, Alko, as in Sweden it is a Systembolaget, etc. It was said that there is alcohol lobby in Finland. We will address you and my beloved Sergei Julevich Witte. He has just stressed that one of the most important nuances of the Alcohol Monopoly is that it takes away the influence of all kinds of non-state actors on the imperialist government. I mean, what is it now, lobby or monopoly? These things don't come together. Since we still have many things to talk about in the future, let us be clear: what is lobby?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U387	Let's make it clear that there is no full monopoly, after all, in Finland beer sales are allowed in shopping centres, just like in Sweden. It's got barren restrictions, and so on. However, it is clear that a large part of merchants would like to sell most of their alcohol production in supermarkets and, of course, producers are also interested in having a wider variety in all shops and more consumption by people. So neither the complete monopoly will reduce the pressure on producers; they would like the monopoly to be stopped and alcohol to be sold more freely and people to consume more. But I will come back to Finland and I will actually continue to respond to Mr Michal, who has claimed that we have not explained this sufficiently. Let's take a longer view. We look at Norway and Finland, looking at how different policies have worked. At the beginning of the 20th century, Norway, Sweden and Finland started from a rather similar start-up platform in terms of both alcohol policy and alcohol consumption. All three have relaxed their alcohol policy during this century, for whatever reason they did, but they have done so to a very different degree. Finland has liberalised the most and Norway the least. During the century, a clear pattern has developed of the quantities of alcohol consumed in these countries. Finland is the largest consumer, Norway the smallest, Sweden is in between, with no differences at all. In Finland, an adult consumed an average of 10.8 litres of absolute alcohol in 2015 (similar to alcohol consumption in Estonia), 9.2 litres in Sweden and 7.6 litres in Norway. In 1975, when a ban on alcohol advertising was introduced in Norway, total consumption was only one litre lower than in Finland: five litres were consumed in Norway, six litres were consumed in Finland. The difference has now grown considerably, and it is now three liters. We'll start on the other side. We have generally had a very liberal alcohol policy, which we are now gradually tightening up in order to reduce alcohol consumption. There has been a reverse trend in these countries. They have started with a tough alcohol policy and there has been pressure to gradually liberalise it. We see that in countries such as Finland, where this policy has been more liberalised, total consumption is higher and, consequently, alcohol damage is higher. It's a reality. Of course, the authorities in Finland that deal with public health know very well that the plans for liberalisation, although cosmetic (a slight increase in the percentage of beer that can be sold in supermarkets), increase the overall consumption of alcohol in Finland and are actually harmful to public health. But the main problem of Finnish alcohol policy over the last decade, as has been said, has been Estonia, or very large differences between Estonia and Finland, which have enabled Finnish people to get alcohol from Estonia cheaply.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U388	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Next, I would like to ask for the presentation of the Chair's Chair of the Economic Commission Aivar Koka.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U389	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on Monday 13 March. The Commission was invited by Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, and Triinu Täht, Adviser to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski gave an overview of alcohol consumption statistics in Estonia and presented the content of the draft. Members of the Commission were able to ask questions to which the Minister provided concrete and precise answers. Yesterday, the Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft law restricting the sale and advertising of alcohol with the interest groups that were, I must emphasise, addressed the Commission with written proposals. Today, several appeals have been put in my e-mail box as well as in many other members of the Commission, where it is deplored that this issue was discussed yesterday, but they had not been invited. I must say that it is good practice that everyone who has addressed the Committee on Economic Affairs, either orally or in writing, is invited to propose amendments or to participate in the debate on the draft. By Tuesday, when we discussed the draft, 11 organisations and companies had approached us and one private individual, and all those who had approached us had also been invited. If associations, NGOs and organisations feel that they want to participate in the draft debate, express their thoughts and make proposals, they are always welcome. They should then turn to the Commission and not to write press releases and letters stating that they have not been invited by the chairman of the committee or by the Commission. We could not invite, we did not have a public hearing, where all citizens of the Republic of Estonia can register and attend. The Economic Commission will also hold such meetings. If there is a desire and a need for this, and if we see that the threshold of public interest has been exceeded, then I have nothing against doing a public hearing on this topic in the Riigikogu Conference Hall. All Members of the Commission, I believe, have a common understanding that the aim of the draft is to protect public health and reduce the harm caused by alcohol consumption. Alcohol consumption must be reduced, but it must also be calculated whether it must be done by means of prohibitions and orders. All arguments for and against the draft need to be considered in the course of the procedure. As I said earlier, for yesterday's debate, the Commission had received opinions from 11 companies and organisations and from one individual affected by this draft. The purpose of yesterday's debate was to provide information to the Commission so that it could make reasoned decisions on amendments to the Alcohol Act. The regulations must be justified and considered and work for the health of Estonian people. Yesterday, Artur Puiste, the Association of Estonian Marketing Communications Agencies, the Association of Estonian Beer Producers, the Association of Estonian Traders, the Tallinn Airport of AS, the Estonian Broadcasting Association, the Estonian Alcohol Producers and Earthloaders Association, TV3, the Tallink Group, representatives of the Estonian Small Businessmen's Association and the Estonian Small Businessmen's Association, and Advisor to the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Triinu Tähk took part in the meeting of the Economic Commission. All parties were able to express their views on this draft. There was a clear understanding that, to a large extent, the draft is good, but there are points that should be discussed. Jaanus Marrandi, a member of the Social Democrat Commission, said clearly and with a loud voice that at least one restriction should certainly be removed ♪ it is a wall-related restriction on ships and at airports. Both members of the Reform Party Commission who were present made it very clear that the wording of the Advertising Act needs to be clarified, as there may now be minor misunderstandings about the background, whether mummous, plaid or striped, and whether or not the product should be hanging on the table. There was also the rumor that perhaps even more detail should be made and even more advertising should be tightened, so that advertising should not expose a human being, a living being. At the same time, it remained clear that advertising may only contain information relating to the producer of the alcoholic beverage, the product and its characteristics and exposure. There was also talk of tasting possibilities, on which the Members of the Commission did not make any serious proposals, and in the end there was no opinion expressed as to whether and how this could be done. It was at issue whether the liquor departments in the shops had to be separated by a wall or whether they could be separated by a curtain or something else. It remained the opinion of the Members of the Commission as well as in the proposals that this could be resolved, as currently stated in the draft, i.e. that alcohol should definitely be in a separate zone for up to 450 square metres. No merchant, producer or member of the Commission argued against this. Should this zone be marked, and should it be very precisely regulated, where there may be a separate area of alcohol sales I must say that the Commission did not make any decisions here. If there's anything left of an interview, you know how it's done: a microphone will be put in front of you and you'll tell the story, but the journalists will cut out exactly what they want and put it on the air. There seemed to be a lot of convergence points in the Commission on three issues, but no final decisions were taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U390	Thanks to the waitress! You have questions too. Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U391	Good Aivar! I thought you hated journalists because you said one thing, but they cut up something else. That, of course, also explains the desire to screw journalists. You know, I warn you, leave the press alone! But all right. We were talking about the scientific basis here, and we ran through comparisons. In comparison, the Nordic countries were brought and I had little doubt. Iceland is an island that is not a free market. Norway is known to be dominated by booze racing at home, which does not take statistics into account, as confirmed by the Norwegian Government. I don't have Swedish records. I just texted you about Finland. Look! The Museum of Helsinki says that at the time the government began to limit alcohol consumption, Helsinki's kriminogenicity was comparable to that of a red terror year. There's pictures of the body, too, look! In short, does not the example of Finland warn us? We cannot be compared to the Nordic countries; we cannot be compared to Finland. In Finland, it went badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U392	Thank you. Good Igor, I'm so sorry if you had any idea that the press was doing something wrong. No, the press always does everything right, I have no concern about that. I've felt it on my skin for years. I am just saying that everyone would understand the same thing, the speaker: the Commission did not make any decisions, but there was a hearing of all the stakeholders. If we have any further statements from interest groups, we will probably sit together again and talk about this subject. But now what you said about Finland. Of course, I, too, asked the Minister at the meeting of the Commission some questions, to which I also received an exhaustive answer. There is one thing that has been done in Finland, but whether it has been best done does not know. Well, there are different concepts. You mean the other way around, Igor, I think, and the minister thinks maybe by the third or fourth. We have different ideas, and there is nothing wrong with that. We must try to put together as good a law as possible. Our aim is to have alcohol consumption reduced. But it is always necessary to analyse all the points in order to determine which decision is best and best for us to achieve the result. That's the question. Prisma currently limits its territory to walls and according to official information, their sales of alcohol have not decreased. It is a question of investment, isn't it? Whether it makes sense to make this investment compulsory or not is a question of debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U393	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U394	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I do not quite understand what decisions you are making without making, but I expect the Commission to have made procedural decisions on the draft. . [[???A. Kokk: 'Jajaa.'???]] The fact that the bill has been brought to the hall unchanged, we all understand. The future will depend on the amendments. However, I come to Article 1, point 3, which provides for the size of the store, of which the display of an alcoholic beverage in a larger store may not be visible from the rest of the sales hall. This border is 450 square meters. It's kind of defined as small stores, but I think they're defined as very small. Still, it is the country shops and small supermarket chains that are located in small places that are the concern. They're already struggling to survive. Has the Commission discussed their problems more broadly and is there any initiative to be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U395	Thank you, Andres, for a very good question. I have tried to say in my report that at the Commission's meeting yesterday, the idea that building walls, as it seems, does not make sense to make it compulsory. This is the subject of the debate, and it will certainly be discussed in the Commission after the amendments have been tabled. You always have to consider everything. Clearly, this zone can't be anywhere between the milk, cheese and sausage counters. It must be separate. I like my home shop, Selver, where the alcohol is completely separate in one corner, only one edge can be seen from it. Maybe you shouldn't see this one side either, that's another topic. But I agree with you that the biggest problem at hand is that border trade has gone lively in recent years, and any restrictions that we are still doing in trade could lead to land shops being shut down. This concern is justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U396	Erki Savisaar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You repeatedly stressed that the Commission did not take any decisions when listening to stakeholders. But what procedural decisions did the Commission take?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U398	Thank you. I've got them in front of me. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today (the decision was consensual), to propose that the first reading be closed (the decision was consensual) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5 April at 17.00.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U399	Thank you for this very important clarification, both for the questioner and for the answer. Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, You reflected what was said in your report in the Commission. I remembered from the previous report that people should not be shown in alcohol advertising and that these prohibitions are subject to a number of restrictions. It makes sense. You called the mummies, stripes and squares. I didn't quite understand what they were all about. But, as we know, advertisers around the world are a fantastic nation. For them, a ban on advertising is a big challenge if it doesn't work out. I wondered if animals could be used in this ad if this law was adopted in this form.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U401	I read that there must be no people or other living things in advertising. Animals are definitely living things. Live beings, including humans, must not be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U402	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm asking about these Prisma bulkheads. You said that Prisma has grown buying alcohol despite the bulkheads.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U404	No, I didn't say it was growing. I said I haven't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U405	For my question, there is no difference here because, in fact, Estonia is in a situation where the internal market has always grown. Do you have any data to put aside here that shows how much sales of Prisma have increased? Estonia is a country where internal turnover is increasing, so it is probably not sufficient to draw conclusions from such a point of view. I'm asking you this because it was a talk yesterday, and it's been here many times today. In fact, however, there is no comparable data in this respect, bearing in mind the increase in sales turnover.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U406	Thank you for your question. We were both in the same room last night. It said that Prisma was not told that the sales numbers of alcohol had not changed. In Tartu, Viljandi, Pärnu, Valga, Põlva and Võru, apart from alcohol, the sales volumes of all other goods have decreased, due to border trade.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U407	Terje Trei.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U408	Thank you! Good waitress! I'm gonna ask you straight. You're the one with the business background. How do you feel about restricting entrepreneurship when dots and squares are actually written out one by one? Speaking of living things, I understand that there must be no grass or leaves in advertising, because they can still be interpreted as living things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U409	Thank you for a good question. Clearly, alcohol advertising must be regulated in some way. The minister gave an example before, 'Let's do it! '. I think most people in Estonia have it stored in the back of their neck. Maybe there shouldn't be alcohol ads like that. Should all the ads go away, a journalist asked me last night. I said that if we lost all the ads, we wouldn't have the press, because, let's be honest, there's no television, there's no pages on this side table, there's still no paper owners, if there was no ads. Should alcohol advertising only run on TV at night, it's always been a question. I'd love to have no ad at all as a television watcher, but if they asked me if they had to turn off the TV channels, I said there could be some advertising. It is clear that consensus must be reached on what this advertising could be and what it would look like. This is where they asked what dots and stripes were. I just meant that the background was not clearly stated what could be there, for example, perhaps also the area where the drink was produced. It has been asked that if the wine was produced in France, there could be a mountain in advertising and whether there could be a flock of sheep or something else on the mountain. These things should be clearly stated so that it does not happen that we adopt the law, but then some official will say whether it has to be this way or whether it has to be the third way. I can tell you that the companies involved in advertising were at the table, and they themselves proposed a wording that was much harsher than what is currently written in the law, but it was much clearer. They would be very pleased if the law included such a clear text, merchants, alcohol dealers and also advertisers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U410	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions for you. It is clear that the representatives of the political groups have a desire to negotiate. First on behalf of Toomas Kivimägi, the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U411	Mr President, thank you very much. I would also have liked to have said that, Minister. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! By paraphrasing the classics, one might say that when the government reached the Riigikogu with the alkoe bill, alcohol consumption had already decreased. The facts confirm this: if in 2014 ten litres of absolute alcohol per person were consumed in Estonia, then only one year later, 8.7 litres already. The Green Paper on Alcohol Policy, which the minister almost preached in the Bible, has set a goal of eight liters. It seems to me that we have already achieved this objective and that we could stop working on this draft. Perhaps alcohol consumption is already decreasing due to different circumstances. Let us mention here, for example, the country's excise policy, the changes in people's values, the improvement of the Minister's awareness, or even the popular role model, which has publicly declared that they have given up alcohol consumption. I dare say that all these four measures are more effective than building partitions in stores. The view that such radical measures may not be justified at all is confirmed by a fresh, public opinion study. According to this study, commissioned by Postimees and BNS, 51.4% of the Estonian population is in favour of continuing the current alcohol policy, 15% wants even less alcohol policy and only one third of the population is in favour of tightening alcohol policy. At the same time, I would like to stress that the Reform Party Group does not dispute the objective of reducing alcohol consumption as a prerequisite for the draft, even more so, we support it. We disagree only on whether the proposed measures are proportionate to the objectives that we hope will be achieved. We are also in favour of banning soft alcohol outdoor advertising. This ban is now known to apply only to strong alcohol. We are also in favour of abolishing lifestyle advertising and granting the Tax and Customs Board the right to make control purchases. Our view is that the focus should be on protecting minors and combating smuggling. The points of the draft act concerning the seller's obligation to verify the buyer's fullevity, as well as the control transactions to detect a breach of the prohibition on the sale of alcohol to minors, are appropriate and necessary. At the same time, we share the view of the companies that there is a provision in the draft, which states that the display of alcoholic beverages in shops with sales halls over 450 square metres should not be visible from other outlets. The cost of meeting this requirement is estimated by market participants at EUR 10 million. This is complemented by annual fixed costs. All of this once again reduces the competitiveness of our merchants compared to the much spoken southern neighbour. There is no need to doubt that this extra cost of 10 million will be collected from all consumers, including those who, either because of age or because of a healthy lifestyle, do not have a problem with alcohol shelves. All of this will ultimately be paid by the consumer. Furthermore, the requirement for partitions creates unequal treatment as 75% of shops, i.e. where the sales area is less than 450 square metres, do not apply. The Minister pointed out that this is not a problem, but I say the opposite: small rural shops are rather a bigger problem, because of their total turnover in alcohol, which accounts for less than 10% of the total turnover in large chains, à la Rimi or Selver. So the share of alcohol in rural shops is higher in turnover. We strongly support the requirement, initiated by the sector and laid down in the draft, that the sales zone for alcohol should be separated from the sales areas for other goods. We have no differences of opinion here, but the partitions do not reduce the availability of alcohol in any way. Many examples of Prisma are given. I think that if these partitions had led to a significant reduction in the sale of alcohol in Prisma, these divisions would certainly have been removed. In fact, these partitions have not affected the sales of alcohol. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U412	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U413	The Minister has also confirmed here today that a great deal of research and analysis has been carried out. In fact, no specific study has been carried out on this particular measure, i.e. on the construction of partitions. This was confirmed yesterday at a meeting with market participants by a representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs, who said that no identical situation was known. It is quite surprising that the alcohol department must be separated by bulkheads both at the airport and on passenger ships flying the flag of Estonia. I have seen nothing like this at the airports of countries with much tougher alcohol policies, be it in Oslo, Stockholm or Helsinki. Estonian public health, as the Minister said, has little to do with the proposed request, as the vast majority of alcohol sold at the airport and on board ships is removed from the country. The strict restrictions on alcohol advertising cannot be accepted either. It is quite unprecedented for the government to say both what is acceptable and what cannot be. The question arises as to what more advertising designers can think about. At the same time, we strongly support the abolition of lifestyle advertising, as well as the ban on outdoor advertising and the ban on alcohol advertising on the front and back of additional newspapers. However, the ban certainly does not encourage the development of a culture of consumption and an increase in consumer awareness, not to mention that it is a restriction on the freedom to conduct a business. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the February issue of the National Geographic, and I would be happy to give it to the Minister, whose lead story is devoted to the old devil himself, alcohol. The cover of this magazine has the title 'How Alcohol Became' and the subtitle '9,000 years of love with potions'. Not to let the gin out of the bottle, not to ask out the old devil, but it says, "Alcohol is not just a mind-boggling drink. Since the beginning of time, it has been the main driving force behind human culture and has spurred the development of art, language, and religion. ' I stress that I have not invented it, and National Geographic is certainly not one of the cheap bullage magazines. As a result, the Reform Party Group proposes to reject the draft amendment of the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act at first reading in order to give the government time to make changes and listen to market participants in substance. It cannot be considered sufficient for market participants to be heard one day before reading the draft in a large Chamber, while the draft procedure in the Committee on Economic Affairs is already closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U414	Next on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group Martin Helme, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U415	Dear Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Jevgeni Ossinovski gave a very long speech here and told us a relatively round story about how he and the entire government's task is to protect the people of Estonia. However, I must say that this bill does not protect the people of Estonia or the health of Estonian people. Instead, this policy harms Estonian entrepreneurs, shops and producers, puts them in unequal competition with foreign producers, dies regional policy, and it does all that. He is helping, and this is a typical consequence of the activities of sots in Estonia. The international large corporations sell their products in Estonia, at the same time hindering the ability of Estonian producers to sell their products in Estonia or to advertise them in Estonia. He helps international large supermarket chains expand their reach in Estonia by killing out small shops, which is an activity in the service of globalism. He also takes money away from the Estonian advertising market, publications and advertising agencies. All of this, however, does not reduce the alcohol consumption of Estonian people. Moreover, I agree and understand that this bill does not deal with excise duties, but, as the Minister himself has repeatedly confirmed, alcohol policy is one of the great sets that take Estonian people's money to Latvia and fill the Latvian Treasury. All this is done by the current government's alcohol policy, but it does not protect Estonian people or the health of Estonian people. If it does not do so and does not fulfil the declared objective, the question arises as to why all the damage caused to businesses and regional policy if it does not actually meet the declared objective. Maybe we're back to what we're always faced with: if the Sots do something, then the real result doesn't matter. The important thing is to get a big, noble posture. No, it's not enough for us! That is why we have also proposed to reject this draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U416	Next on behalf of the Free Party Group, Monika Haukanõm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U417	Mr President! Good minister! Good ambassadors! Estonians have used wolf's foot water throughout history. It has evolved, whether we want it or not, into a public vice, which also includes social attitudes. They have been very tolerating because they have always been, and there has always been alcohol consumption. Unfortunately, as we have heard here in the last long hours, consumption of alcohol and other substances also involves a wide range of losses. This damage is seen in the streets and homes, whether it is physical or spiritual violence. It can't be tolerated. As a result, the Government of the Republic's initiative is an important landmark. The Free Party is also in favour of the general objective of the draft. At the same time, there are places in the draft that raise legitimate questions about overregulation, and there are also places where we can ask whether we have missed anything or not. More specifically, I will first talk about restrictions on the sale of alcohol. The display of alcoholic beverages must, according to the draft, be separated from other goods, placed either in a separate section, department or shelves. It is certainly not a problem in large shops; it is very easy to place goods by product group and alcohol clearly separate from others. Unfortunately, there is a question here in small shops, where space is very limited and the separation of alcohol is difficult, or even impossible, and goes beyond economic means. Unfortunately, the draft explanatory memorandum here is very superficial and does not give an idea of how small shops, which are already struggling with the fatal consequences of alcohol excise duty, should be able to resolve the situation. After all, it is not just about accessing and displaying alcohol, but about the survival of small shops in rural areas in general. If the store disappears, not only will the possibility of buying alcohol and tobacco disappear, which would be good, but also the possibility of buying bread, milk and sausage, and jobs will be lost. The store is an important place in the village, apart from making the necessary purchases, social communication and information exchange. If the store disappears, the village will soon disappear. This last one must definitely be avoided. Unfortunately, you can't find that nuance here. The amendments stipulate that alcohol must be placed separately from other goods, i.e. not to be seen elsewhere, from the 450 square metre sales hall. Due to the exponential rise in border trade, the existence of most country shops is already under great question, as I said. Although many rural shops are less than 450 square metres, the area of larger rural shops is still larger than 450 square metres, for example, in rural areas the Konsums have a surface area of up to 800 square metres. In fact, we did not get a clear answer as to why 450 square metres is the limit and why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications proposed it. This reasoning remained with me, and I think many of us are still incomprehensible. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U418	There is no justification why the construction of walls should in any way reduce alcohol consumption, but it is clear that it will cost rural shops even more and in a situation where their existence is already in question. I'd really like to hear a reason why it's 450 square feet. A few words from the liquor commercial. Restricting it is an undoubtedly important step, and it will help to bring about social change, especially if we are to protect children and young people from the so-called ripples that lure them into a path that undermines their health and livelihood. There is an undoubted need to ban lifestyle advertising. As we understand it, no one disputes it. Unfortunately, however, the restriction of alcohol advertising on the Internet has been excluded from the draft; only social networks have been identified. You could say you've reached halfway, and then you've pulled the brake all of a sudden. It is children and young people who spend a significant part of their time in the virtual world. If the draft aims to protect public health and change the behaviour of children and young people through advertising restrictions, then the virtual world must also be taken into consideration. This has been pointed out by a large number of draft coordinators. It is very clear that the issue of access to alcohol needs to be addressed and the behaviour of consumption changed. There is a need to reduce the supply of alcohol advertising. However, the bill needs to be substantially amended before we can also support it with a calm heart in the Free Party. The issue of small shops needs to be resolved, as well as the restriction of advertising on the Internet. The Free Party hopes that, in the course of the further processing of the draft, it will come from the bottlenecks referred to, or also from the problems, no matter what we call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U419	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U420	Next on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Helmen Kütt, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U421	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister for Health and Labour, I will start by quoting my speech this morning: 'Jevgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, is a small step, but a bolder step is a strong indication of the need to introduce more forceful changes in social attitudes. These steps are necessary to enable young people to grow in a healthier society, where pressure from alcohol producers does not affect their decisions for life to come. ' So wrote the Women's Support Centre of Pärnu and Saaremaa, the Women's Support and Information Centre of MTÜ, the Pärnumaa Society of the Estonian Red Cross, NGO Citizen's Security and NGO ETNA in Estonia to support the draft prepared by the Ministry of Social Affairs, which is under discussion today in the large hall of the Riigikogu, which strengthens the restrictions on both advertising and access to alcohol. Today's first-reading draft aims to protect public health in general and our young people in particular. The aim is to prevent the consumption of alcohol by minors (in 3327 cases, last year the police dealt with the consumption of alcohol by minors). The aim is also to reduce total alcohol consumption and, in particular, excessive consumption, to ensure a secure environment for everyone and to reduce alcohol-related crime, social problems and health damage. Now I'm talking about the real situation. Conservative estimates included more than a thousand deaths related to alcohol in Estonia in 2015, of which 495 died directly from alcohol-induced illness, 13 were diagnosed with the word alcohol, 26 were intoxicated, 30 were intoxicated, 15 were intoxicated, 22 were killed in drunk, 17 died in a drunken state as a result of hypothermia, and 58 were committed under the influence of alcohol. In addition, there were many diseases that had been affected by excessive alcohol consumption. Not to mention those who were injured because of the behavior of people who were drinking alcohol, such as their participation in traffic. Do we see the real and irreversible tragedy of these figures? Last year, the police received 37034 challenges and notifications due to alcohol abuse, most of which were related to domestic violence. Believe me, women's support centres, whose letter I quoted at the beginning of the speech, know this from their daily experiences. County police officers at the meetings have pointed out that 85% of the challenges posed by intimacy violence were those where police were needed because alcohol consumption in particular had triggered or caused violence. The Estonian Health Insurance Fund, which I was at the Council meeting this morning, was costing an estimated 50.3 million euros in 2015 to treat alcohol-related diseases. At the meeting of the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, Dr Andres Kork, the representative of the Medical Association, praised the Minister for fighting alcohol as an enemy of health and health funds. The proposals made by the Ministry of Social Affairs to tighten restrictions on both advertising and access to alcohol are, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, timely, necessary and reasonable. Rather, it is unreasonable for the Committee on Economic Affairs to propose that this draft law be rejected from the procedure. This proposal was presented by the Reform Party and in a situation where Estonia loses at least 30,000 full years of life a year for alcohol. If this number is not spoken, let us count the loss in money: EUR 490 million each year. I am now considering the measures proposed in the draft, the most important restriction on alcohol advertising. The draft bans alcohol advertising on social media, bans outdoor advertising, extends advertising restrictions on radio and television for an hour, until 22 o'clock, bans alcohol advertising on the front and back cover of additional magazine publications, allows only neutral information to be provided, excluding the creation of a positive image as part of a lifestyle for alcohol use. Estonian young people are very aware of alcohol advertising. In 2012, when the Emori study was asked to name ads spontaneously, the most frequently mentioned were alcohol ads. Alcohol ads were not negative for the respondents, but were usually and positively remembered, and clips were mentioned, the common denominator of which was company, party, and positive atmosphere. The amendment of the Alcohol Act and the Advertising Act in the form proposed by the Ministry of Social Affairs ensures that new generations can grow without strong alcohol propaganda. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U422	Thank you. The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak. I'm calling back to the speaker's desk, Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U423	Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! It is regrettable that in most of the speeches little was said about problems and social concerns and how they could be reduced, but a great deal was said about what representatives of business interests related to alcohol have been talking about for a long time, using a number of solutions. Sometimes, when listening to these speeches, it seemed that this bill had not really been read. In Mr Helme's case, it wouldn't be a first, but it was a surprise. I've been talking for hours, and it seemed to me that Mr. Helme was listening, but he still didn't seem to have heard me. That happens sometimes. Speaking of corporations, Mr Helme, it is unfortunate that the corporateism of alcohol production, especially in the case of beer production, is a very big global trend. Do you know that two of our expensive and cute domestic brewers belong to the Olvi Group of Finland and another to the Carlsberg Group of Denmark? When you say that we prefer large corporations at the expense of domestic consumers, I think we could think a little more seriously about who you have been talking to about these proposals. The second issue, the extinction of small shops. Dear friends, I told you ten times that 75% of Estonian shops are outside this restriction. They have no display restrictions or requirements to make them invisible. I heard the view that the walls themselves do not reduce alcohol consumption. I would like to stress once again what I started. The WHO Global Strategy against Alcohol sets out ten types of measures that work as a complex, shaping a culture of alcohol in society. One person, unfortunately I don't remember the name, wrote to any of you on social media today that it's a little bit like a clock mechanism: if we put all the small pieces inside the clock on the table, it seems that none of them makes much sense, but if you put them together correctly, then the result will be a clock that shows the time. There's a bit of a similar situation here. Mrs Haukanõm drew attention to online advertising. Internet advertising is limited by this bill in exactly the same way as television, radio and print advertising is limited. General restrictions also apply to online advertising; there is no exception here. The only exception is that outdoor advertising is completely prohibited and according to the draft, advertising on social media is completely prohibited. General provisions apply to all other types of advertising. I now come to Mr Kivimägi's speech. First of all, I must honestly admit that the proposals that the Reform Party is prepared to support are still very much like the proposals that alcohol producers brought me in the first few months. Once again, what I have already said: if we take into account only the proposals that alcohol producers have accepted so far, that is cosmetics, that is not a good result for us. But we need a result. Now, what are the objectives in the area of consumption? I also said in my speech that the eight litres mentioned in the Green Paper are not based on science of any kind. Two more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U424	Two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U425	This eight liters was written as a certain compromise, and a reduction of around 20% in the alcohol consumption figure at that time seemed to be a realistic definition of the objective. Indeed, we have seen a slight decline in alcohol consumption as a positive trend. As I said, this is not yet correlated with the reduction in alcohol damage and alcohol deaths, from which we conclude that rather moderate consumers have reduced their alcohol consumption, which is also very good. But for those people who are the most problematic in terms of social harm to alcohol, we have not seen this change. Stronger regulatory measures are needed to reduce alcohol consumption in these people. When it comes to a science-based goal, it is six litres of absolute alcohol per capita. This is also the objective of the WHO Global Alcohol Strategy. Eight liters is too little ambitious. You say that we have already achieved a reduction in alcohol consumption with the existing information measures and the increase in excise duty. This is very good, but with these measures we will reduce it again. Excellent! There's no question. No one is opposed to a further reduction in alcohol consumption. Finally, speaking of National Geographic, it must be said that this is not one of the main arguments against which industry always brings, that there is a certain culture and alcohol consumption is part of popular culture, there are links to religion and everything else. First of all, alcohol has been consumed in rather large quantities, especially in European societies, in other societies, but less in history. It's true. Our aim is not to ban alcohol consumption or to eliminate it from culture. Once again, a person's right to buy and consume alcohol remains. However, there is a huge difference between the ages in which alcohol has been consumed. For example, much less alcohol was consumed in Estonia during the first period of independence than is now consumed. I think it is reasonable to move towards a much lower overall consumption of alcohol. The proposals made take us that way on the basis of evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U426	I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 381, but we have received two proposals to reject the draft at first reading. These have come from the Conservative People's Party Group and the Reform Party Group. I shall put these proposals to the vote. We shall begin preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the rejection of the draft proposal by the two groups at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal was supported by 24 members of the Riigikogu and against 43. First reading of Bill 381 is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 381 amendments on 5 April at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U427	The next item is the first reading of Draft Customs Act 374 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask for a presentation of the speech chair by Minister of Finance Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U428	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members,
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U429	Dear members of the Riigikogu, there are several other items on the agenda. I'm asking for silence in the hall so the waitress can be heard! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U430	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, I hereby give an overview of the draft customs law, which bears number 374. The main objective of the draft law is to bring customs legislation into line with the European Union Customs Code and to regulate matters within the competence of the Member State. The drafting of the new law was due to the large volume of technical amendments. Terminology is brought into line with European Union law and the references to European Union legislation are specified in customs law as well as other laws. The most important changes for individuals and businesses took place on the entry into force of the EU Customs Code in May last year. The new EU Customs Code harmonises deadlines and other technical nuances in order to ensure uniform and simple customs clearance in the Member States. The greater objective is to transfer all customs business to a single electronic environment by 2020, i.e. to make it paperless. In addition to aligning with the provisions of the European Union, the draft provides for other changes, such as the inclusion of customs databases in order to comply with data protection requirements. The bill complements customs representation procedures. The customs agency is an undertaking representing a person when carrying out customs operations. The customs office may be either direct or indirect, depending on whether the representative acts on behalf of the representative or on his own behalf. The authorisation of the customs agency is required by the draft irrespective of the type of agency, so far only in the case of indirect representation. The existence of a tax debt will also be examined when granting an authorisation. If there is a tax debt, it is difficult to obtain a permit. The possibility of suspending the licence will also be clarified. The arrangements for the organisation of the customs auction are deleted from the Customs Act. The liquidation of confiscated assets will be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the State Assets Act. The aim is to allow flexible solutions to avoid accumulation of assets and thus costs for the state, and to implement the same regime for both customs and police (which is already in place) seized assets. The arrangements for establishing a free zone are also amended. The authorisation shall be issued for an indefinite period, the application for the establishment of a free zone shall be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and the free zone shall be determined by decision of the Government of the Republic. Misdemeanours will also be reduced and six offences that are questionable will be excluded from the law. For example, non-keeping of the document is no longer a punishment, nor does it provide for a penalty for false declaration of goods. At the same time, the possibility of penalising a misdemeanour is added, which currently does not exist. Under the Penal Code, attempted misconduct is punishable only in cases provided for by law. The current Customs Act does not provide for the attempt to be punishable. If the customs authorities check the goods prior to the border crossing of the truck and the passenger, and in the direction leaving Estonia, contraband is detected which has not yet arrived from Estonia, it is a attempted misdemeanour. If the law is not amended, there is really no possibility of punishment. A number of provisions are deleted from the Act, such as those repeating the Law on Administrative Procedure. Therefore, the new law is shorter and clearer than the old one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U431	Thanks to the waitress! There are no questions for you. I would like to ask Erki Savisaare, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U432	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft Customs Act at its meeting on Monday 6 March. The Minister also explained in the Commission the need for this law, doing so more or less in the same way as he did at this remote point a moment ago. This law is necessary in order to adapt to Estonian law the new Customs Code of the European Union, which will apply from 1 May 2016. It is therefore necessary to amend the current laws of Estonia. The main objective of the new Customs Code is to establish uniform requirements and to transfer customs clearance to a new electronic environment that is uniform in all Member States of the European Union. The draft submitted to the Riigikogu contains amendments to other laws that use customs terms and references to customs legislation in order to bring them into line with the same new customs law that applied on 1 May 2016. As there are many changes, for reasons of readability, a new draft law was drawn up which also updates provisions that do not need to be amended directly by the Customs Code. According to the draft law, the provisions of the administrative procedure law are removed from the law, the regulation of the agency is supplemented, the procedure for calculating the cost of customs services is amended, the law is supplemented by the provisions of the databases, the provisions of the goods transferred to the State's ownership are clarified and misdemeanours are reduced. The Commission raised some questions concerning the deadlines for enforcing the law and why it is still necessary to amend the whole law. The recitals were similar to those set out above. The Commission also raised questions about the need to inform customs authorities about the new authorisation regime. Although all concerned are aware of this, Piret promised Liira to send them a separate notifying letter so that everyone would definitely be able to update their licences. The Commission made some procedural decisions: it was decided to propose that the draft Customs Act be sent to the plenary of the Riigikogu by 22 March, to propose that the first reading be terminated and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft Customs Act by 5 April 2017 at 17.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U433	Thanks to the waitress! No questions for you. Do the political groups want to negotiate? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 374. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 374 amendments on 5 April at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U434	The next and last item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft law on the amendment of competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws 386. I am pleased to note that the author's speech has already been presented by the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U435	Honorable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable representatives of the people! The idea of this draft is simple: to improve the competitive situation across Europe. To this end, a European directive has been adopted, following the case-law of the Court of Justice, which states that, although leniency programmes for the identification of participants in a cartel exist and, although fines are extremely important for the protection of the free market, the offenders protected by them are not exempt from the liability for the damage they have caused to market participants by committing them, namely competitors or consumers. Therefore, the Court provided that the practice of protecting the material of the leniency programme in a way that the victims would under no circumstances have access to them is not justified. Instead, each case should consider its specific circumstances and assess whether such a classification is reasonable. That is why a Europe-wide legal initiative has been created, which has been adopted on the basis of the procedural arrangements in force in the European Union. From this point of view, the draft amendment to the competition law and the related amendment to other laws has been initiated, which should reconcile our law with the European legal order in this matter. The specific items included in this draft are: exemption from compensation for damage arising from general delicate liability, presumption of direct loss of property, specificity of the starting point for the calculation of default interest, speciality of limitation of time, limitation of the processing of claims arising from the commission of a prohibited act, differences in the admissibility and collection of evidence in civil proceedings, binding of national decisions on the court dealing with a claim arising from the commission of a prohibited act and, lastly, the right of the Competition Authority to exercise administrative supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U436	Thank you, dear waitress. There are no questions. I would like to ask for a presentation by the committee of the Chair of the Economic Commission, Mr Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U437	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Colleagues! The Economic Commission discussed this draft law on Monday 13 March. Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marandi, Kristen Michal, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Siim Kiisler, Adviser-Secretariat leader Kaido Rosin, advisers Marin Daniel and Piia Schults and consultant Henrik Mägi took part in the discussion. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Käddi Tammik, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Ministry's Legal Policy Department were invited. We discussed draft law 386 on amendments to competition law initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws before sending it to first reading. This point was spoken out; the Minister made a concrete, short and very precise presentation. Especially a great place that I liked personally was a leniency program. In particular, in order to prevent cartel agreements, a party to the cartel who has somehow been pranked may give a hint to the public authorities and, as if, relieves them of responsibility, but does not relieve them of any damage. If he did cause any harm to anyone, he'll be released from punishment, that's the soft side, but the hard side is that if there's any compensation to pay, he'll have to do it. The Minister was asked a variety of questions and provided adequate, precise and concrete answers. In the oil cartels, Mr Sults asked about the upward and downward trend in global prices, as to whether this had a bearing on this draft. However, this has nothing to do with the European Union. Urmas Reinsalu explained very precisely that this draft treaty does not regulate the transnational agreement. The Head of the Commission's Adviser-Secretariat, Kaido Rosin, requested the opinion of the Minister of Justice as to whether it was justified to deal with the draft law in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The draft also contains a number of special procedural rules for civil justice, which could be dealt with by the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee. Minister Urmas Reinsalu took the view that although the draft is decided by the management board of the Riigikogu, the competition law is a vital law which also regulates the market, it is reasonable that the draft is dealt with by the Economic Commission. Mr Savisaar wanted to know which provisions were not based on the provisions transposing the Directive. The most important sentence of this draft was that the right to administrative supervision is returned to the Competition Authority. The Commission decided as follows: Firstly, it was decided to propose that the draft law amending the competition law and related amendments to other laws be put on the agenda of the plenary session by 22 March (Commission consensus decision). Secondly, it was decided to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (consensus decision). We do not usually have a vote in the Committee on Economic Affairs; we will talk until all things are clear. Thirdly, it was decided to propose a deadline of 5 April at 5 p.m. for amendments to the draft. There was no need for a vote again, as usual, because we talked until everyone agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-03-22_U438	Thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 386. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 5 April at 5 p.m. for the submission of 386 draft amendments. Dear colleagues, today's day in this room is over. I wish you a pleasant day. See you tomorrow morning! Closure of the sitting at 8:44 p.m.
