ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the session of the 11th working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Monday, if you do not mind. Thank you. Transfer of pre-claims and enquiries. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Estonian Central Party, the Estonian Reform Party, the Estonian Social Democratic Party and the 13 members of the Estonian Free Party, I am submitting a draft amending our Penal Code. There is one paragraph in the Penal Code, No 178, which protects the normal sexual development of a child. If a child is depicted on pornographic material, his sexual self-determination, his development, his normal, normal life will be damaged. The point of this law is to protect real children from exploitation, as well as from materials that contribute to exploitation. The wording of the current Penal Code is extremely broad. This deviates from the objective of protecting children who actually exist and is therefore very weakly linked to the damaging legal benefit. The current wording allows for the judgment of literature, which allows for the judgment of two 14-year-old children who exchange SMS messages with each other. Thus, the scope for interpretation of the law is too broad and inappropriate for a democratic society. Basically, it's even a little ridiculous, and that's what we want to lose. Igor Gräzin, who signed the draft, asked me to inform you that the proposed amendment was discussed in the Writers' Union and yesterday the Estonian Writers' Union presidency decided unanimously to support our proposal. I hope we can find support in this Chamber as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U3	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Reform Party Group, I would like to refer an inquiry to the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester. The history of taxes in the world is passionate. To recall, one of the first taxes was imposed on food oil in Egypt in ancient times, so that people would not be lavish with oil. A few days ago, the Ministry of Finance presented to the Cabinet the concept of taxation of high sugar drinks. People's mouth have started to call it a sugar tax, children would probably say a lick tax. The introduction of such taxes is practiced little in the countries of the European Union, because it is almost impossible to implement it legally, technically and economically. This is what our northern neighbours Finns said at the end of last year. It is difficult to distinguish between added sugar and natural sugar in any sweet product. However, this distinction must be drawn between taxation and taxation, particularly in terms of tax fairness. The critics of the Sugar Tax have called the taxation of sugar-containing products a patronizing, regressive and so-called "nanny state tax." There are a number of examples in history of attempts to curb excessive sugar consumption. Denmark introduced a soda tax in the 1930s, but the taxes did not work in the expected way, but they insisted on buying cheaper goods in neighbouring countries, and in 2013 both sugared drinks and, by the way, fat tax were abolished, because they wanted to promote the local economy. In Norway, too, such a tax has been used in the early 20th century, saying clearly that it is necessary to fill the treasury and not to change health behaviour. Indeed, there are studies that show that soda tax has reduced the consumption of sugared beverages and people have lost an average of two kilos a year. However, in order to better understand the intentions of the government, we have a number of questions for the Minister. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U5	Representative of the Government of the Republic Heili Tõnisson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U6	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching today a draft law amending the Sport Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Culture Indrek Saar represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U7	There's no more calls. I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry and we will deal with them in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Please, let's do the presence check! There are 90 members of the Riigikogu. Adoption of the agenda. Please, Maris Lauri, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U8	Thank you. I look at the agenda and I have a question about the draft relating to public procurement. Having dealt with it myself at the beginning, I know that it is a well-fat bill and there were a lot of proposals. However, we still do not have the text of this draft, and I cannot imagine how we will discuss it on Wednesday. That's a problem for me. And I will see that another draft from the Economic Commission is on the agenda on Thursday. I get the feeling that this is a bad practice in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Is there any way to influence the Economic Commission? I am no longer in the Commission and, unfortunately, I cannot do anything about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U9	The answer to the first question on the draft text is that the Committee on Economic Affairs has asked the Bureau to extend the time for submitting the material and the Bureau has extended it. The answer to the second question is that the members of the Economic Commission can influence the Economic Commission. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question concerns not what is on the agenda, but what is not on the agenda. In fact, today is a completely empty day for us. There is no answer to any question, although quite a few have been submitted. Who remembers the last Mondays, they know that we have had eight questions to answer at once three times in a row. On one occasion, it lasted up to three quarters of 12 a.m. What makes such burden sharing very incomprehensible? Why is such a distribution of questions? We have another Monday when there is no hearing, because it will be on 1 May. Please explain!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U11	The explanation, Mr Herkel, is very simple. The law specifies the time during which ministers must respond, and in agreement with the Riigikogu, they come to this House. We're not going to report to the ministers when they have to come. If there is a desire to do so, the Rules of Procedure Act should be amended. Now, this is really happening in such a way that the ministers themselves will give us the time and then come. The important thing is that enquiries can fit within the time prescribed by law. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. My question relates to the question of the previous colleague. The members of the Riigikogu and the various political groups have made a large number of inquiries. But what is happening today actually shows quite clearly that the government does not respect the Riigikogu. This shows the Ministers' disrespect for our work. I want to ask you what it means to have this free choice of time. Do we need to understand this in such a way that our time costs nothing and our work means nothing, as the government simply does not do its job and does not fulfill its obligations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U13	It doesn't mean free rein. When the MPs read the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, they see that ministers have a certain deadline to answer questions. Within this deadline, they really choose the answer time. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U14	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that this is the deadline, and obviously there is no breach of the law. However, I think you will understand, just as I do, that any reasonable minister would be happy to come with his subject as the first point on Monday in order to get attention, not at an indefinite time, at 10 or 11 late at night. What's wrong with the government of the Republic? Perhaps you can tell the Riigikogu where all the ministers are today that none of them could have come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U15	I suggest you ask this question in Question Time. George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U16	I have the same problem. I understand that, on a formal basis, if no person should appear in the Chamber, there will be no suspension of any item on the agenda; the session will run independently of it. So if ministers don't answer questions, it's a zero response. It would therefore be logical to consider an inquiry to be answered in the event that the Minister did not appear. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U17	I think ministers have been as diligent as members of the Riigikogu to answer questions. They've been here by 9:30. They also often have an interest in leaving the Riigikogu building at nine o'clock in the evening and not staying here. Well, in this case, there must be mutual understanding. If ministers have not found the right time today to respond to enquiries which have not yet been due, they will probably find another time. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U18	Thank you, Chairman. In my opinion, you are rolling responsibility off of yourself as the Chairman of the Riigikogu with your answers. Maris Lauri referred to the Public Procurement Act, which is a very large document. Do you analyse in the Bureau decisions and the extension that this entails in essence? Moreover, it would make sense for us to distribute the work of the Riigikogu evenly. I understand that, so far, there has been an attempt to find such a solution in the case of enquiries that every Monday there is a more or less even division of labour. Why could such principles not be followed this time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U19	If there is a desire for the Board of the Riigikogu to write to the ministers who must reply and on what date, the Rules of Procedure Act must be amended. At the moment, the Riigikogu's board of directors may be working on something, but ministers may not act on it. So, in this case, my proposal is to amend the Rules of Procedure Act first and discuss everything. This would probably mean planning somewhat different work and giving the opportunity to distribute answers more evenly, but on the other hand, it would make the lives of ministers somewhat more difficult. As regards the deadlines for submitting amendments, they are equally laid down by law, but the Commission has the right to request an extension from the Bureau and the Bureau has the right to grant it. If this is what the committees have wanted, the Bureau has mostly done so, with the firm knowledge that the debate in plenary would be constructive. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, if the table of amendments arrives here and it reaches you earlier via the Internet, then you simply have to do your job more intensively. There's nothing we can do about it. I imagine a large law, of course, is unpleasant. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U20	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Maybe I missed my ears, but did you tell us why the ministers didn't come here today to answer? We have heard rumors that maybe they aren't true, because the wind carries all kinds of noise to our ears, that the real reason is that they go to the grynes to discuss the possibility of having a coalition together. Are you confirming or rejecting?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U21	I can't confirm it or argue with it, I don't have an invitation. However, they may not be able to do so because the deadline for replying to the requests for information also allows for an example on Monday of the next working week. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U22	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Yes, the law promises to come back within 21 working days, but there is an opportunity to come earlier. Did you propose to someone from the ministers to come today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U23	Ministers have mostly expressed their wish to come forward before the deadline. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U24	Thank you, Mr President. You said that the deadlines would allow ministers not to come forward today and probably to consider their being, the content of which will remain dim for us. Are you saying that the opposition is asking too little questions from this hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U25	No, in my opinion, this is now my own opinion, not the President's opinion, asking questions to a sufficient extent and very actively. For this, I am very grateful to the opposition. However, I will not thank the opposition if you pressure me to break the law. I will not do that even at the request of the opposition. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. I remember one of your very clear speeches. In fact, you said that if the Riigikogu calls the minister, he must come and cancel all the rest. Is this valid or not valid for today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U27	Yes, it does. I hope that all those ministers who were invited to the committees today came. Let's get to the agenda. The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to amend this week's agenda in such a way as to put the third item on the agenda of the Thursday session, i.e. the draft law amending the planning law initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the related draft law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment and Environmental Management System Act 411, second reading on the agenda of the Wednesday session, so that it could be our fifth item on Wednesday. With this correction... Who wants to ask? [[Someone comments from the floor that this bill actually has to be placed on the sixth agenda item.]] Point five? This is the second reading, the fifth point is the second reading of the Commercial Code, the sixth point is the draft of 411 and the seventh point is the draft of 407, as usual. Third readings, second readings, first readings. Six, yeah. I'm gonna make him six, because the second reading's already written. I think the Committee on Economic Affairs actually had the same desire. That's right. Draft 411 is the sixth item on Wednesday and draft 407 is the seventh item. Is everything clear now? Honourable Riigikogu! I shall vote on the agenda for the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 69 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, no one opposed, with 15 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U28	There's a free microphone on our agenda today, and I'd like you to sign up for it after the hammer hit. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U29	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! We have learned that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic do not want to talk to us here today. That is undoubtedly regrettable. Given the workload we have on Mondays and referring once again to the 1st of May, which will cut another Monday sitting out of our working schedule in the near future, it is certainly regrettable and will go to the honour of the Riigikogu and, honourable Chairman, also the Board of the Riigikogu. I must say that we, the Free Party, do want to talk to the ministers. The management board of the Free Party has made one appeal to the ministers of the Republic of Estonia. This concerns the possible candidate for ministers in municipal elections. There was also a conference of electoral alliances with our participation, where it was very clearly stated that the decoy party will proceed with full force in the event that the ministers, members of the Riigikogu and county elders apply. Ministers are the most outstanding and regrettable part here. If you don't mind, I'll read this address to you. 'Dear Ministers! The Management Board of the Estonian Free Party calls on you not to stand as a candidate for local government councils in the elections to be held in October this year. Our appeal is motivated by the desire to protect Estonian politics, especially your credibility as ministers. Let us make sure that deciding on local problems remains the responsibility of local politicians. Administrative reform has already created a situation where power is increasingly being centralised and local communities are not concerned with decision-making. The presence of ministers as decoy ducks discredits political parties and makes you, the ministers of the Republic of Estonia, the puppets of backrooms, even though the idea requires you to be statesmen. Non-candidate is the smallest favor you can do to Estonian municipalities after you have already unfairly harmed them by rigidly pushing through the local government reform. By denying exceptions to the 5000 people's claim, you have created illogical alliances and also contributed to the destruction of Estonia's historical name heritage. We are thinking, for example, of the brutal easing of the historical area of Western County and the attempt to revive the so-called Kohtla-Järve district, which is causing a sharp protest among Estonian people living in Alutaguse and Toila accession areas. We mean dozens and dozens of individual cases without taking into account the will of the villages, the results of the local survey, or the historical heritage. Please stop here, trust the local people, let them decide for themselves! Honourable ministers! Let us remind you that Estonia will be holding the Presidency of the European Union very soon. All the more so, we must not give the signal that our ministers do not take their role as President-in-Office seriously, but at the same time plunge into the local election campaign. Let us remain Estonians, but let us also become good Europeans. " Signed on behalf of the board of the Estonian Free Party Andres Herkel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U30	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U31	Thank you. Today is the gender pay gap or, in other words, the equal pay day. Today, 104 days later, a woman receives a salary that she received on December 31st. I'd like to talk to you about 40. It's a Nordic initiative from Norway this time. In fact, Norwegians have come to the view that both sexes should be represented on the management of companies, not less than 40%. Economic governance that respects Norwegian gender equality and the resulting good economic performance led the European Commission to think about establishing this same principle across Europe. However, the mandatory 40% directive applicable to the management of stock exchange companies is being blocked. If we voted on this directive in the previous composition of the Riigikogu in the Committee on European Union Affairs, we could say that everyone was present. However, despite the efforts of the then opposition, the social democrats and the central group did not have exactly one vote. A message was sent from Tallinn in 2013 to Brussels that we were not in favour of such a directive. Now is the time for a clear revision of the directive. As soon as Estonia starts the Presidency of the European Union, nine blocking countries, or minorities, should take a decisive step towards the majority of the Member States, or send a message worthy of the 21st century, not so much from the East as from the North. The Committee on European Union Affairs is a miniature Parliament. If the number of female members of the Riigikogu had not been 21 but 34 members of the Riigikogu, not one fifth, but one third, then the result of the vote would have been different and the increase in the proportion of women would have been supported. Women who belong to the circle of decision-makers know perfectly what the power of their voices means. In the case of a female driver, it is quite clear that the gender pay gap in the company he manages is going to disappear or at least not as deep as it has been for years and still is. At least we no longer deny that there is a problem. Consciousness is worth something, isn't it? It was worth six years ago for women to come to the streets with posters 'No pay gap! '. Now we come with roses. We know that we need to move forward, and that is why one thing is certain: there must be more women on the boards of state companies, at the end of the day, not less than 40%. As women, we also find that wages must be made public first in work families and then in job advertisements or both. I also have an idea, which I have already said in the press release today: why not start publishing wages by publicising income tax. This is already the case in Sweden, they are not complaining, and I think it might be an option in Estonia as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U32	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U33	Mr President of the sitting! I must begin by saying that I ask everyone who listens or reads to take into account that there is no substantive or formal connection to the subjects or assessments of the previous speaker in what I am about to say. My subject is advertising. I have quite often voiced the opening, honourable representatives of the people, that one of the hallmarks of law making that can be assessed as to whether the law has been done well is whether the issues discussed will come up again and again over the years or whether they have been put in place once and will remain the same. The Advertising Act was adopted in the second half of the 1990s. Perhaps then nothing could have been done differently because they did not know better, but also in the newer version, he has basically remained the way he has been. The main problem is that the law does not reveal what advertising is at all, and it does not break down the phenomena in this area enough to be handled sensibly. What is advertising in the context of an election campaign, for example? Is it possible to talk only about advertising or should we talk about agitation or both? What is the difference between the two? When Estonia's independence was restored, the elections were not yet electronic, and most of the elections took place within one day at the polling stations. At the time, it was decided to establish such a principle that, from the point of view of the reasonableness of the election result and of a better electoral culture, no one should go through any form of agitational posters that tends to vote on the day when the vote takes place in the precinct. This should end last day. This was, in itself, a perfectly sensible principle and was accepted by the Estonian public. It was later found to have a very large bonus. In fact, when you look around the world, there are mostly posters rags lying around a week or more after the elections, both on the walls and in the gutter. We have achieved a situation where it is taken for granted that the people who put up the posters will also clean them up afterwards. So after the election, we have a clean country. But the principle of equality. We have here a number of questions about Mr Artur Talvik's case: have there been no major mistakes? First of all, should advertising be limited to all that is done by professional advertising agencies, or should it be done by individual people? The principle of equality states that equality must be treated equally. But are these equal phenomena? Then there is another question that the advertising law does not tell us anything about. There are posters, for example, that call for some kind of action and whose ultimate goal is that we move our wallets, buy something. There are, however, other things that have no clearly commercial goals. Do we have to consider these things equal? Are they the same? We now have a rather common and massive practice from other parts of the world that various means of personal agitation are being used in the election campaign. Not only are you talking to a person on the street, but also that you put a sticker on your car or wearing a shirt with some kind of text, so people get the credit you want to say with it. You put a poster on your house's yard, for example, or you put it on your streetside window from the inside. Are these commercials? That is the question we need to answer in the near future. Otherwise, the thing that we're dealing with right now tends to get pretty fooled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Arthur Talvik, I would like to add to you for information, given that notes are also being made from the sitting for history that it is known what the members of the government are doing today. The official message from the government is that they are discussing the perspective of the state budget for the next three to four years at Sagadi Manor. So it's a long way from going green. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U35	Good listeners! Mr President, first of all, thank you for the information. But I, too, want to continue on the subject of equal treatment. My main story is about the local elections and a conference organised last Saturday by the Free Party for the 'elections with the Election Unions', and a presentation by Allar Jõks there, but I will jump back to Marianne Mikko for a moment and say that I think that equal treatment could begin with the Riigikogu. As we all know, there are quite a number of wage categories in the Riigikogu, so there is also a pay gap among the MPs. This is one thing that could be lost by following the principle of equality or by example. This would help avoid political templates, the most competent for the chairmen of the Commission, the following for the vice-chairmen, etc. It would also end with some members who can park in the courtyard, who in front of the house etc. So it's worth thinking about. By the way, in the European Parliament, the salary of all Members is even and does not depend on whether they are chairman of the committee, chairman of a political group or vice-chairman of a political group. But now about equal treatment in connection with the local elections and the presentation by Allar Jõks on Saturday at the conference "The Election Unions for Elections." This was a remarkable presentation, which well summed up all the trends that show the centralisation of political power and the abolition of equality or, let's say, the reduction of political competition in Estonia. There are several examples that he gave. He pointed out, among other things, that the ban on outdoor advertising, which also concerns the laws of local government in addition to the Riigikogu Election Act, in its current form gives an advantage to political parties, or major political forces, who receive state support, and deprives electoral associations that do not receive state support, of one very simple, good and also cheap opportunity to make themselves visible. This is the same thing that Andres Herkel spoke about a moment ago, or our statement on the board, which calls on ministers, members of the Riigikogu and also the heads of the county government not to stand as candidates in municipal elections, so as not to create an unequal situation, because they are people of national renown and with a high probability of catching more votes than local residents. Thus, electoral alliances are currently not in a position to receive state support. The Free Party has proposed to amend the law in such a way that part of the state's support for political parties goes to the electoral alliances. Now, if you add here that the electoral districts and municipalities are becoming very large, which also makes the situation of the electoral alliances much more difficult, we can say that there is a great deal of inequality in our society. We are going to reduce it from the so-called national level! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U36	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! When the spirit ends, there will be nothing left but anger and indifference. Those words of Jaan Tõnisson from 1927 have become more and more common to me recently. It is 2017 and it seems to me that the spirit is running out in Estonia. Why? The government works on full lines, comes up with all kinds of suggestions, one is prouder than the other. Stakeholders are invited to think along, even to be approached and asked for their opinion, but the result is still zero. We have moved to a time when the institutions are strong, delivered, struggled, and much work is being done. At the same time, however, we have skilfully rejected people's opinions and their wishes, especially at the level of government. Estonian society is small and the people of Estonia are not stupid. Last night at 9:30 a.m., the K-Rauta store janitor told me three times: don't think that people are stupid! Why does it seem that the spirit begins to disappear and is replaced by indifference or even viciousness? It is precisely because all these people's views, opinions, assessments, wishes that are asked for, are not getting anywhere. They don't count and people get tired. Take, for example, peripheralization. We all know it's a problem. But this is not solved by the fact that, in the Stalhanovical procedure, it is decided to move an institution to one place or another. We should ask first what the region needs to survive. Are these jobs? What is the soul and heart of the region that will help us to get life going again? Let's get Rail Baltic. People have said that next to this big railroad, which has no freight transport and which is not tomorrow, we should think about how we can cope when we get self-propelled cars and people's jobs take away robots. Let's hear what the people who love Estonia say! From here on, the whole issue of administrative reform. Administrative reform could take into account Estonia's particularities, unite people and strengthen local areas, but no, it is done without listening to the opinion of local people. It endangers not only the loss of spirit but also all forms of cooperation. People get tired, they can't keep what they want to keep. And the Riigikogu, since we are no longer working properly here, is spreading this mentality and attitude, destroying our own spirit. We have 'Estonian Republic 100' coming up. In its name, in its shadow, we can strengthen this spirit and spirituality, the chains of which do not clink, as Hando Runnel has said. Let us start from here in the Riigikogu Hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U38	Thank you, Mr Aru, for a story that was not malicious and that was clear. Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U39	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening to you and I think that even though we haven't been left in this hall, everything has gone like a box. I also take the floor because I feel a little bit of the life of the Riigikogu. First of all, of Marianne Mikko's speech. I think Marianne is on the right track. And when you, Artur, were talking here about the fact that inequality begins with pay, in fact, there is no inequality in wages here, not all members of the Riigikogu get paid in the same way, whether they are women or men. If a woman is the chairman of the committee, she will also receive the same salary as a man. So I don't see any inequality here. Second, let the yard be parked by those who want to. I don't want to park in this yard. I don't want to stand behind the barrier. Let these things be, they don't matter at all. At other times, we are wronging people and certain systems by means of such small examples. If we extend it to election advertising, etc., I understand that people must have the faith and knowledge they are going to choose, but we cannot limit it to infinity. Let me give you some examples. When I was the mayor of Mikitamägi, some of the electoral councilmen went home to the boxed people. I sent my sister, but since we're so much alike, the voters said, look, Inara came here with a box. I guess I didn't get that much, but I got a little more votes. It's just a little joke about the thing, of course. I would like to say that there are certainly many people in Estonia who hope that things will move towards change, but I also know many who were happy to form the current government coalition. Believe me, the Reform Party has dictated Estonia's life for a very long time. In this, I fully agree with you that this time has lasted for a long time, that it has come to the same end, but people have also come to expect, along with tiredness, that perhaps now something will change. Give me time to set the pace! The government is working now and I believe that the positive expectations of the Estonian people will be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-10_U40	Thank you for your speeches today. The microphone is free again in this sense which just after a week. I'll see you tomorrow morning at 10:00. Take care! Closure of the sitting at 15.47 p.m.
