ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will start the 3rd working week Thursday session of the VI plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, you now have the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. Since we don't see any requests, we'll do a presence check. 69 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, no 32.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda. We have one item on the agenda, but it is important and substantial: it is the debate on the 'Implementation of the concept of development of Estonian civil society', which is an important national issue. Before we begin, let me briefly introduce the procedure for the debate. According to § 153 of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and Homes of the Riigikogu, the Management Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the following procedure for discussing the "Implementation of the Development Concept of Estonian Civil Society" as a matter of major importance on the proposal of the Constitutional Committee. First, a presentation by Martin Noorkõiv, President of the Council of the Estonian Nonprofit Associations and Foundations Association, for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers for up to 20 minutes. Next, the presentation by Minister of the Interior Andres Anvelt for up to 20 minutes and then the questions and answers also for up to 20 minutes. And thirdly, the presentation by Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for up to 20 minutes, followed by questions and answers again for 20 minutes. May I have your attention, please? Each member of the Riigikogu may submit up to two questions to the rapporteurs. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Representatives of committees and political groups, as well as other members of the Riigikogu, may speak. At the request of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I propose that representatives of the political groups speak first. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. Peter Ernits, do you have a procedural question? Please, Peter Ernits, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U3	Good manager! Unlike last week, can I ask questions to another performer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U4	Yes, it is stipulated in this procedure that questions may be asked to the first, second and third performers. In total, each may ask up to two questions. The one you ask your questions to, you can choose for yourself. There are no further procedural questions. We can go to the debate on a key national issue. I'll be the first to call Martin Noorkõiv. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U5	Honourable members of the Riigikogu, Minister and guests! Last week there was a debate on democracy in this very Chamber. I firmly agree that the debates on democracy and the debates on civil society are intertwined, and I am very pleased that this was also raised in this debate. I'm one of the people who's been reading this session's verbatim. That was a very exciting reading. Today, I hope that when we talk about civil society here, we will still talk about democracy more broadly. That is why I want to start with a little bit, or to be honest, with a lot of more extensive issues and rather wide brush strokes and, inevitably, too bold generalisations. I hope you will be willing to accompany us on such a small journey, despite some mistakes during the journey. We look at the world as humans and notice certain trends, certain patterns. I think it's one of the most human things ever. We see economic forces changing the world, we see technological developments, environmental changes, we see geopolitical changes, we see political and social changes. The question is how we will react to these changes when we see them. What conclusions do we draw when we see these changes? I think this is one of the most important issues in history at all. By the way we react, two radically different world views can be distinguished. According to one thing, we must surrender and raise our hands and say that there is nothing we can do. The other is, on the contrary, everything is, and must be, under the control of man's iron. Both of them are mistaken in their extreme forms, I think. Fortunately, there seems to be some kind of balance between these two in the world at any given time, but from time to time, mankind or some part of it somehow gets farther away from the center, sometimes even very far away. In the Enlightenment, for example, people really came to believe that man was almighty, that man could change and control everything, that the world was one machine, and that we could be its operators as gods, forgetting all intellectual modesty. At other times, such as in some time in the Middle Ages, man's responsibility for his situation has been fully given away again, almost forgotten about free will. Both extremes can be quite dangerous. The first has historically led to extreme social experiments and wars. In Estonia, we have experienced this during the Soviet occupation. The second attitude has led to economic and spiritual degradation, to the disintegration of civilization into smaller and more savage parts. This happened, for example, after the fall of the Roman Empire. I believe that the world is indeed terribly complicated. But in this complexity a number of effective trends and trends can be identified, which very strongly shape the preconditions for what can be done in the world. At the same time, I also believe in man's ability to detect and respond to these trends, even to guide them. For example, you can prepare to defend yourself or take steps to avoid any negative effects, even more so, ideally also find ways in which initially the trends seem dangerous to turn to positive development. I believe that the balance between these two views is a necessary precondition for a healthy society. I believe that this situation, where we reach the centre between these two worldviews, is a situation where society can function in a healthy way, where democracy can function, where meaningful discussions can take place and where, after these discussions, reasoned decisions can be made. I also believe, and this is perhaps the most important in today's context, that a strong civil society is a sine qua non for a functioning society. It is a civil society in which as many people as possible play a responsible role from time to time, where they are actively trying to improve their own and the people around them, but at the same time also a civil society that is able to soften and, if necessary, hold back rapid and extreme changes. I see civil society as such a layer of softening. What if our world is changing faster and faster and, as a result, the shaking is becoming more and more powerful! A strong civil society can soften these shocks and will help us to respond smarter to the changes and trends that we may be afraid of. A strong civil society allows society to respond step by step to change, in part, rather than in large Utopian sketches. I do not think there is a more reasonable way to develop society. A weak civil society, however, means too rapid major changes and excessive shocks that cause too painful reactions. It is therefore important to regularly assess the situation of civil society in this Chamber and to look for ways in which, in addition to the role of active citizens and the role of NGOs, the state can support this development even more. I'll be back to that in a few moments, but I'm gonna go back to these trends for a second. It seems to me that the world of Estonia and the Western world is moving more and more away from this centre, closer to this submissive thought template. I am quite sure that this is largely due to American political polarisation. This is not our fight, which we have seen so much anger for, but that doesn't mean it can't make us fight. Social and cultural structures are still real, they really affect us. And with this ever-growing feeling, the constant shift in the world's image is accompanied by a startling, proactive, responsible submission to fate, nostalgia of past times, apathetic fear, and suffocating retention of what exists. It's cramping and it's letting go, and it's giving up because of fear. And that's what Jack Prince, it seems to me, talked about last week. We can see the expressions of that feeling and thought all around us. For example, this is reflected in how economic power has been elevated to the role of idol and destiny. It is as if we have come to believe that what has been caused by economic forces is inevitable and out of our control such a Marxist view. Whether these panicking chicks in the trash can or people working in shops on a Sunday night or teaching staff receiving low pay at a university or children going to bed on an empty stomach anywhere in Estonia. The latter, of course, relates more broadly to the issue of inequality in society. Recent data indicate that even the engine of the European economy, Germany, whose economy has grown for 15 years, must recognise that the poorer population there has remained poorer over the last 15 years, not more prosperous. We are well acquainted with this in Estonia because we have one of the highest inequality figures in Europe. On average, we are doing well, and it is easy to forget that the lives of very many people in Estonia look completely different when walking on the streets of the Old Town. This inequality, too, is not really inevitable. Similarly, we have come to believe that technological progress is some sort of inevitable and that the problems it causes are out of our direction. For example, we can see the impact of social media as if it increases populism. And the first reaction is to ban and limit. In a number of countries around the world, such as Germany, the law has already made it mandatory to delete inappropriate content from social media. Have we not learned collectively from history what happens when we begin to limit our expression? Once, the quickest way to fame was to get on the list of forbidden books of the Catholic Church. Will we soon have a list of banned Facebook posts? This list could continue for a long time, as the tendency to think like this has become quite prevalent. In a somewhat surprising way, it seems to me that the most extreme views of the day are both at the same end of this framework. Both mean faith in the omnipotence of trends. Some simply believe that these inevitable trends are good, others believe that they are vilely malicious. Some would like to pick up the pace, others would like to get off the train at all. However, neither approach is adequate; neither approach is even possible, for leaving yourself to the mercy of fate without asking questions is ultimately as absurd as the belief that it is possible to step out of the world alone. However, for some reason neither side is questioning these developments. They both seem to believe in the inevitable of trends. I am here today to say, or rather to recall, that none of these things are really inevitable. These are choices. And I repeat this here: the impact of Facebook on discussion culture and starving children in Estonia are issues of our choices and non-choice. Nobody pays the inevitable without a show. There are economic forces, but we are determined not to interfere with them in this way. But there is no destiny, and I have a little funny to say it here in front of the Riigikogu. The reaction to what is happening in the world is always up to us to do it ourselves and to take our responsibility. The enlargement or decomposition of the European Union is not inevitable; the polarising effect of social media is not inevitable; the spread of populism or radicalism is not inevitable; the deepening of inequality is not inevitable. And the possibility of Parliament becoming a rubber stamp is not inevitable either. All these things are our responsibility. As soon as we give up this responsibility by identifying the natural nature of some kind of development or, worse, the smallness of our personal contribution, we give up our free will. Then we'll scoot at sea instead of pulling the sail mast and sailing out of the storm. Then we're shy. You say you fire, you are strong, you are making the right turns, but in fact some of you do not even take responsibility for the functioning of Parliament. Several of you have already given up. I've heard it in the media: the rooftop money is bad, but we can't change it. Then who can? If even some Members say that they cannot change the way Parliament works, how should anyone else in Estonia believe that they can influence something, change something? I think we've had enough of all the responsibilities we've had. The responsibility is, of course, difficult. It is easy to talk about values or responsibility, and it is much harder to follow what you say. That's why I'm asking you for a moment to stop what you're doing. You, who write something, do even social media posts, including those who follow this call somewhere else, think about it for a second! Think of what is happening around you in your life, in your work, in your city, in your parish! Is what's going on okay? Is that what it's supposed to be? Do you have to let this go on? Or even more: can you allow this to continue? We will still start here in the Riigikogu. Is it supposed to be that you will no longer be able to play the balancing role of the parliamentary authority here as before? That you can't do your part? No way! I think you're responsible for your own behavior. Of course, others are influencing and guiding and trying to get you to do something, but you are always responsible for every decision you make. The same is true of all others who share in this thought exercise. You're in charge too! You are responsible for the chicks who have squeaked in Talleg's trash can, the Estonian forests, the war refugees and even the terrorist attacks. You're in charge! And I'm responsible too. We're all in charge. And the responsibility is hard as hell, I guess the hardest thing at all. It's so hard that sometimes I want to give up this burden. Let the others think and worry and do it. I can't, I have other things to worry about! Real life, real things. The cat wants to eat. But that's how freedom disappears. This is where democracy begins to crumble, from giving up this responsibility. From here, however, we can and must move forward. I stand here not to preach evil in any way, but to seek hope. Because where our society moves forward is at all times largely due to how we view the world around us and the changes that are taking place in it. Citizens who are discouraged by change and afraid of change are at one point leading to a quiet decline and decline in society. An entrepreneurial, active and hopeful citizen society takes away from it and hopefully closer to the kind of Estonia we dream of. Here you have a great role to play, members of the Riigikogu. You can change a lot by example alone. You are a mirror of the citizenry, and many of you have already set such an example. Thank you. But you are all responsible for this, both by your words and by your actions. But back to something a little more specific. Civil society helps democracy operate in different ways, helps take responsibility and helps to learn how to bear it. This will help to understand change and find the most suitable solutions for Estonia in a shared inclusive process, as well as those who are not seen by the state or whose problems are not so well understood by its distance. A strong civil society can do all these things and more. The position of Estonian civil society is relatively good, especially when compared with other countries in Eastern Europe. We have a wide range of civil society organisations that have taken action to resolve some of the societal problems. We have intervening communities who notice decisions that are unnegotiated or hurt people's sense of justice. We have enterprising youths who do good things and are able to involve other people in them. And we have more and more people in Estonia every year who are open to volunteer work and donating alongside paid work. However, there are still some obstacles and untapped opportunities. I will conclude today on three other options. First of all, civil society can help to understand these ever faster and more complex changes by means of what is called inclusion, participation, transparency and so on. In professional politicians, these words are indifferent in the best case, and in the worst case, they are vomit reflex. I kind of understand that reaction. Involvement for inclusion is a useless and annoying, even wasteful activity. But nobody wants that. No one wants to be meaninglessly involved, we are all on a single page in this regard. However, leaving out the same people themselves from discussions on services for children, patients or people with disabilities, for example, is a sign of recklessness and lack of interest. Of course, it is also right that not all different opinions can be taken into account. This is not possible already mathematically. But dialogue has a much broader meaning in a democratic society. There is a need to listen and seek solutions that will bring as much benefit as possible and minimise damage. It is necessary to analyse the fears and changes that one or the other decision may bring. If the community protests against the planned highway, or if forest carers disagree with logging volumes, then their reasoning must be heard. Don't be afraid. No citizen wants to make an endless contribution on every subject. But if a subject really is so important and close to the heart for some people that it takes the trouble to express its opinion to the state, I think it is justified to expect that the state or local government will also try to understand its perspective. Secondly, it is inevitable that resources are needed to act actively. Some of you have considered it a problem that NGOs are economically overly dependent on the country. The extent to which the state must support the participation of citizens is a separate issue. I am here today to say: when we operate in NGOs, we also want to be less dependent on state subsidies. We want to work freely with the people and companies that care about our mission. However, it also requires a tax policy that motivates both private individuals and businesses to donate more. Statistics show that a very small number of businesses donating donate more than there is a tax-free limit. You can change that line. These donations depend on your decision. Or what if it were to distinguish donations from other tax deductions so that each citizen can see when filling in his tax return how much he has contributed to solving a major problem for himself during the year? You can make these changes and help NGOs become more independent. At the same time, there are a number of things that make sense for the state to delegate to someone else or do so in strategic cooperation with someone. As is natural, the state buys computers from an IT company and clean-up services from a cleaning company, it is not reasonable that the state does all these things itself. Similarly, it makes sense to delegate some of the actions and funding needed for society to citizens who can do better, whether because these people are closer to those that the state is trying to help, or because they have greater capacity to solve some of the problems. At times, however, it is just enough not to impose excessive restrictions on those who want to help. It is also reasonable to put the form of social entrepreneurship on a more legally sound and clearer footing for the financial independence of non-governmental organisations. It is good if the NGO is able to make money on the market, which can serve social interests or provide services independently of the country. I run one such organisation myself, but there are already very many in Estonia who save taxpayers' money by doing their entrepreneurial work, offering a comprehensive social service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U6	Good waitress! The scheduled 20 minutes are now over, but I believe you can also say the final words of your speech by answering the questions. So let's get back to answering questions. Or would you like to sum up your report quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U7	I'm just saying the last words.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U8	Here's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U9	I am a rather young person, and I believe I have a long life ahead of me here in Estonia. I hope that the democracy that we have is getting stronger and stronger. I hope that this civil society that we have will grow ever stronger. However, I am here today a little bit to say that this is not happening by itself. I'm sure you know that yourself, but important things need to be repeated. We must not remain seated on the fact that we have somewhere in the EKAK that civil society is important. In order for it to remain important and develop, major daily steps are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U10	Thanks to the waitress! You also have many questions. First Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U11	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! First of all, thank you very much for your interesting presentation. I very much agree that we all have a choice to accept or take action. Since a lot of people are watching this broadcast online, I really want to say thank you to all the thousands of people who have chosen to act. I believe that many more will join these players. Believe me, there are many people in this Chamber, too, who are not only politicians, but also volunteers and very important members of civil society. My question, however, concerns cooperation. There are very good examples of effective cooperation at the level of local authorities, at the level of different organisations, but you did not give such examples in your presentation. Perhaps you would like to illustrate this issue and give some good examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U12	Thank you for your question. Yeah, I set the focus maybe a little too much on criticism. If you look at the overall picture, there are probably many more good examples than there are bad examples. As I said, the position of civil society in Estonia is relatively good, but we are here to ensure that it not only stays good but becomes better. That's why I brought up trouble spots. I would not like to give concrete examples right now. We had a meeting of two or three committees a year ago, where we had a very long and detailed examination of these matters. I'd rather not touch them now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U13	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! During this debate last week, which you read the verbatim report, there was, among other things, talk about liberal and non-liberal democracy. Obviously, we have a relatively different understanding of liberality. I have encountered countries with a nonliberal or autocratic attitude. There is one phenomenon called GONGO, this is government-organized non-governal organisation. You yourself also indicated that our non-profit organisations are too dependent on the country. Do we have this GoNGO phenomenon and how do we get members to contribute more?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U15	Thank you. This is a very important issue, and it has been up in the media for some time. I would like to share a number with you here. How many of all Estonian NGOs have received money from the state? 14.7%! This means that most will not receive money from the state, most will act on their own, either without money or with their own money or on the basis of donations. This is an important fact. Estonian civil society operates largely on its own. We have organisations that get more money from the state, there are those who get less. But in general I think that, in this sense, we are rather in a good position, that the system of how a single NGO can get money from the state is transparent and clear, with the exception of some channels, such as the distribution of roof money. Such questions might be asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U16	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In your philosophical generalisation, you pointed out that civil society is like an emollient layer between various rapid changes and sometimes painful changes. That's what I had to ask you. A person's life occasionally requires very rapid surgical intervention. It may be more painful than expected, but it may be essential for the patient. Does this actually apply to society, that certain interventions and changes must be very rapid, even though they cause pain? A slow process of softening jolting may lead to destruction for society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U18	Thank you. That is, of course, a very difficult question. Analogy to medical practice, I mean surgical interventions, is generally justified. If a doctor has a trusty relationship with a patient, things have been negotiated, and the patient knows what he needs to know, when the doctor has discussed everything with him, the moment he's on the surgery table, he's expecting urgent surgical intervention. I think it's the same in society. When things have been negotiated, when things are understandable, when people are involved and generally understand what is happening and are broadly in agreement, then they are prepared for faster changes from time to time. On the contrary, if there is no such general situation, every quick move will be reacted painfully. It's a pseudo-scientific theory, but in the broad sense, things could be something like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U19	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U20	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I'd like to go a little further into the details. Roof organisations and NGOs at all, who consider themselves representatives of civil society, have started to distinguish between those who are small and those who are big players who can be defined by civil society at all. Can you tell me where it's coming from? And what would be the possible actions to minimise such a gap among civil society activists?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U21	Thank you for your question. I am not sure that civil society must be united. I think that we want to live in a society where NGOs can have different positions, can argue with each other, can express different opinions. I do not see a problem at all when some NGOs are somehow interconnected and others are reunited, and these groups have different opinions about something. In this sense, I do not agree with your raise of the problem. Another thing is that no NGO umbrella organisation, including the Estonian Association of Nonprofit and Foundations, is saying that it represents everyone, that it is somehow the roof of everyone, that it is as if everyone agrees with what it says, or that it can only say what everyone agrees with. Roof organisations are trying to do their best to understand what is happening in the field, what are the problems of the sector as widely as possible, as much as possible, and then pass this information on to where it is needed, or act on its own, if possible. I hope that the answer will satisfy you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U22	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U23	Thank you. Good waitress! I think that civil society has a very important role to play in improving the environment around us. I can see very closely, myself, how a movement based on such well-active, super-blowing and strong young women Lasnaidee is doing super-jobs to literally improve one region with more than 100,000 inhabitants. There was a lot of talk in your speech about giving up responsibility. There was a lot of turning around in your form and much less in our form. That's what my question is about. Can you mention, for example, three things that the same civil society of which we are all members can do to make sure that everything that you have said is less negative about us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U24	Thank you. So there are three things that all people, or civil society, could do? I think the most important thing, although it may not seem that way, is to do basically anything outside what needs to be done. Taking responsibility begins, it seems to me, from the first small step. The more people we have who feel that they can do something to make a difference, the more people who feel that they can do a lot to make a difference. And the more organisations we have that can do a lot, the more we have all kinds of big projects and initiatives, as well as political movement and development. In this sense, the first step is the most important step. Another thing you can't do all, but what many can do is donate. If the problem is that NGOs are not sufficiently independent and depend little on the country, then donating is one thing that many can do. However, I stress once again that not all of this can, not everyone has enough money to do so. Thirdly, I note the subject that is closest to me. It's that even if you don't do anything, you could at least listen, read and think about what's going on. I am one of those people who think it is good that people have become very active in social media and are discussing life. Sometimes we use words that we don't like or a form that we don't like, but I still think it's positive that more and more people think along. In a sense, it's like a step ahead of the next step, perhaps doing something.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U25	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U26	Thank you. Good waitress! I sensed in your speech a slight confrontation between civil society and politicians. Some comparisons were, like, that one party wanted to do something, but does the other party really come up with decisions and want to take responsibility for decisions? At the same time, I must say that civil society is much more diverse than the composition of this Chamber in a world-view and belief. There are currently six political parties in Parliament, but either the three of us or the two of us can agree on something in the coalition, and some things still work. Civil society is, in my opinion, very fragmented. Some want to do more business, others want to do charity, others want to distribute money. How can civil society be more monolithic and more concentrated so that the wishes of the people reach politicians better?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U27	Thank you. Now I don't know how to say this... I'll say it like I mean it. I think that's the wrong goal. In my opinion, civil society should not be more monolithic. That is the value of civil society, that it is not monolithic, because society is not monolithic. The people are not monolithic. If we start to distinguish civil society in any way from people, from our citizens, if we start to think that civil society is some sort of stand-alone thing that must be monolithic, while we are not trying to make the people monolithic, then we are basically on the wrong path. I did not really try to contrast policy with civil society. I tried to highlight the complexity of the fact that citizens are diverse. And that means that considering him, listening to him, thinking along with him is difficult and will be difficult. The stronger our NGOs are, the easier it will be for the country to communicate with citizens in terms of civil society. But hopefully this development will never come to the point that we have an organisation that represents the whole of civil society and all citizens and lets them know what they want. In this case, we would already have another form of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U28	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U29	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. I wish the Estonian Association of Non-profit and Foundations strength and professionalism as a strong professional association! I really enjoyed bringing out two things in your report. First of all, inequality. Unfortunately, there is inequality in Estonia and it also characterises civil society. My one question is about that. How can this inequality be reduced in civil society and in the activities of associations? Secondly, you called for reflection on what is happening in cities and municipalities. In fact, local governments will gain a significant amount of additional resources this autumn, they will become stronger, they will become more self-sufficient. But the concept of the development of Estonian civil society, which we are discussing today and which will soon be 15 years old, left the municipalities out. That's my second question. Have we sufficiently involved local authorities in the debate on the activities of civil society organisations and the development of civil society? How can we develop this social dialogue and implement the social agreement that has been concluded in the form of the EKAK? How can local authorities and civil society be better linked?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U30	Thank you. The first question was that NGOs are not equal. Hopefully I assume correctly that we are talking at least partly about resources here. This is one of the things I tried to say in my speech, but I'm going to go over it again because it's pretty important. We, or at least many NGOs, want NGOs to be more financially independent. In order for them to be able to do so, they could be as easy as possible to collect donations, they could be easier to operate as a social enterprise, and there could be a very clear system how, when the state delegates some kind of service to someone, NGOs can also provide this service. These three things allow very different NGOs to increase their financial capacity and thus to do more. As far as the issue of local government is concerned, I am currently indebted to this answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U31	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Estonia has a very strong and diverse diaspora. Has it changed, and if so, in what way? What is the relationship between Estonian civil society and civil society in the Estonian diaspora? And how well is the social capital of the Estonian diaspora involved, so that our civil society is stronger, more active and even more powerful?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U33	Thank you for your question. In some ways, it can be said that the Estonian diaspora is strong. More generally, the older generation is the most active, they are active where they live, actively trying to keep in touch. Many of them can do that. The younger generation, who have left Estonia relatively recently, probably does not have much of an organized relationship between them, and by this it is also harder for them to maintain relations. I suspect that the idea that the diaspora might be more involved has been rather secondary. Now, how can these people be more involved? I think that's the right question, and that's more to ask. If there are any national measures that allow for certain cooperation, this objective should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U34	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U35	Good Martin! You're a young man and you probably remember your education very well. I come back to a matter of responsibility that you dealt with for quite a while. How do you feel about our school, our education system, preparing people to take responsibility for society in general? If a person feels that something is missing, will he be willing to join someone or create a NGO where he will act? Does school support such thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U36	Thank you for your question. One of the greatest difficulties in solving any societal problem is the knowledge that, in most cases, it can be concluded that, in principle, the education system can solve this issue. We could just teach the kids that or the other one, and after a while society will get better. If you answer your question, I assure you that schools are actually trying very hard. Except it's not always that simple. Curriculum provides the teaching needed to increase responsibility, but it is actually very hard work. Most of this work is also carried out by non-governmental organisations. A number of NGOs work together with schools to help schools create opportunities where students can take some responsibility from the ground and try to bear it from the ground. But I wouldn't be me if I didn't say there's a lot of room for improvement and there's a lot more to do. So I'm going to add a confirmation at the end that school isn't enough. Even if the school were perfect, even if the school were to take responsibility perfectly, all older generations would have to set a pattern by example, by their conduct, which would be imitated. That is why I wanted to talk so much about responsibility and role modeling. You are very visible, your example is reading the example of many people, but you, to a very large extent, are reading, and that is why I emphasised it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U37	The time for questions is over. Thanks again to the waitress! Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, next in the speech chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests and, of course, good previous speaker Martin Noorkõiv! The Riigikogu approved the development concept of Estonian civil society, or EKAK, in this very hall in 2002. On December 12 this year, we can celebrate the 15th anniversary of EKAK. During these 15 years, NGOs have become more independent, stronger and certainly more successful, but the essence of civil society has remained the same. The EAK's objectives relate to the development of NGOs, public authorities and the population as a whole. Together, the activities of the third sector must contribute to the spread of activity, cooperation and responsibility among the entire population in all areas of society. In 2002, it was agreed that inclusion to the stated objectives, participatory democracy, the citizens' initiative, the development of cooperation with the business sector, and the way forward, would be recognition, representation, partnership, joint policy development and the purposeful use of resources, i.e. transparent funding already mentioned several times today. It is the task of the state to ensure that the civil society described in the EKAK is created with the right conditions for the emergence, existence and survival of civil society. This can be done by implementing the civil society agenda. At the beginning of 2015, the Government of the Republic adopted the 'Civil Society Development Plan 2015-2020'. Its main objective is active civil society organisations and socially active citizens. Thus, at the time of the celebration of the 15th anniversary of the EKAK, we have reached the stage of the completion of the second joint creation plan and it is the right time to look at Estonian civil society in front of the members of the Riigikogu and the cooperation partners belonging to the NGO and discuss what direction and how to proceed. It might be appropriate to use the phrase 'Quo vadis, civil society? ', but it would be more appropriate to ask, 'Quo vivimus? Where are we going? " After all, civil society is our society where every person can and should contribute. The way in which the EKAK's objectives are achieved is to recognise, represent, partnership, jointly develop policies and use resources in a purposeful way, all mutually supportive activities necessary for the development of civil society and therefore need to be seen and assessed in synergy. First of all, representation. On 8 November 2016, the Riigikogu held a public session of the Constitutional Committee, the Cultural Committee and the Social Affairs Committee, where the NGOs passed on six proposals to the Riigikogu. The presentation and protection of proposals concerning inclusion, social enterprises, the development of strategic partnerships and other issues is an example of the highest level of representation of NGOs themselves. It should be noted that these three Riigikogu committees discussed these proposals and found that they are all important and necessary. NGOs can and must defend their interests at the highest level, because this is the only way to achieve the desired change. In addition to their members, NGOs often represent the community, while umbrella organisations often represent a number of NGOs. If civil society organisations are able to effectively represent different interests in society, involving their target groups and members and bringing together reasoned opinions, then social dialogue is constructive and consistent. Now about the partnership. The state expects civil society organisations to have professional and strategic partnerships. NGOs acting in the public interest, i.e. in the interests of society, are noble and often innovative, and as such are worthy partners for the country. However, an appropriate partnership may be abandoned, as non-profit organisations are often seen as merely in need of assistance and not as providers of assistance. It is time to show that NGOs are the best partners, including service providers. In fact, Estonian civil society associations have considerable capacities on a global scale, as can be seen from international studies, such as the USID index, where Estonia continues to be the first in Central and Eastern European countries. One of the tasks of the government, in cooperation with NGOs, was to strengthen the strategic partnership between the public sector and non-governmental organisations after taking up office. For example, the Ministry of the Interior has nine strategic non-governmental partners who contribute to the development of civil society, support religious organisations and also make Estonia safer. We have, for example, volunteer rescuers in rescue units, relief police officers in police stations, volunteer marine rescuers in marine rescue societies and people in neighbourhoods who joined the neighborhood watch. All these people are indispensable members of the community who help prevent and resolve irregularities and other cases. One example. In the middle of July the young man Karl-Juhan Laanesaar was on the evening lap between the forests of Võsu, when he noticed an already enlarged forest fire. The man quickly decided to act, put the flames out of the shirt, and call on the rescuers to erase the forest once and for all. Although Võsu no longer operates professional firefighters, it is also possible to respond quickly to the threat with the help of volunteers. Volunteer rescuers from the Võsu Voluntary Fire Department rushed in, disarming the last sparks. With the help of careful and caring private and voluntary rescuers, nature was saved from greater harm. NGOs are good partners whose aim is not to generate revenue but to create added value for society. Social entrepreneurship is a good example here, with which many associations solve social problems, provide a service and earn their own revenues. A Utilisation Centre is a good example of a social enterprise that, as a non-profit organisation, has been built from scratch to be a viable point of sale of used goods. The centre, which originally served clients with the help of volunteers, has become a successful association, which has contributed in recent years, for example, to the bullying-free school program. Both the new use centre and other social enterprises have a means of generating revenue, not an end in itself. The Utilisation Centre is certainly not the only example, nor is it one of the few examples of successful connections. NGOs do great things, but sometimes their important contribution goes unnoticed. The Social Business Network created an impact assessment website where all interested parties can see the contribution of NGOs to improving community life. This is where I call on the associations to be more visible, to show themselves more boldly. Show yourself online, in prints and in the streets! 'Let's do it! The second, third, fourth, as well as the tenth, action came after the first trash harvests of the NGO operating under the banner. Next year it will be a global event. Small initiatives give rise to great deeds, and every person, every NGO, can contribute to this. Further: Joint policy development. Local action is no less important than major global activities. Most Estonian NGOs operate at local level. Over 90% of local governments have cooperated with civil society organisations in the last three years, both in shaping local life, organising events and co-financing projects. Local NGOs in particular know how best to promote local life. At the same time, they also have the responsibility to exercise control over local decision-makers, to educate and support decision-makers. In the new local government units created by the administrative reform, it is even more necessary for NGOs to be visible and accessible. The decision-making process, in particular the decision-making of funding, must be transparent and fair. As a representative of the state, I promise, for our part, that we will be guided by the principle of transparency and the guidelines for the funding of associations and will carry out formal checks in this area. Every day, however, it is you NGOs who are the ones who can most directly influence life at local level. One of the basic principles of the government is to develop a clearer policy to support the involvement and participation of NGOs, and we will work towards this goal in the coming years. Now for transparent funding. Civil society organisations have become more capable from year to year. In 2008, the State established the Foundation's Civil Society Foundation, or CFEL, with the aim of empowering civil society organisations. Compared to the initial years, applicants in the foundation have become more professional, projects have become more effective, and in addition to the development of the organisation itself, the aspect of cooperation is highlighted. The change has not taken place overnight or by accident; it is a daily strategic activity of committed people. As a country, we have contributed to the development of civil society organisations and we will certainly continue to do so. However, it is the right time to ask how much and where else we can develop civil society. Where is the limit of development and regulation? I firmly believe that civil society must not be over-regulated. The boundaries cannot and must not be tightened. The state, i.e. all of us who are here today and represent the country, can contribute and support the development of NGOs. The State therefore supports the growth of donations to NGOs, the development of self-revenue capacity and cooperation with the private sector. At the end of last year, the Government of the Republic adopted an action plan aimed at organising the financing of NGOs, making it more stable and more purposeful. To this end, we agreed on an analysis and proposals to diversify the sources of funding for NGOs. We will soon be going to the government office with a memorandum containing an analysis of the financing of NGOs. The emphasis is on increasing donation and involving private money. One example is companies that donate to companies with income tax benefits. Namely, only 5% of companies that have donated income tax to companies on the list of preferential companies pay income tax on donations per year. Most companies don't pay income tax on donations. This means that 95% of companies donate only as much as the tax-free limit allows, not a cent more. This threshold therefore has a significant impact on the amount and size of donations made to non-governmental organisations. Losing the threshold is one way of motivating companies to increase the number of donations. Our task is to create a framework for civil society organisations to develop, to be sustainable and to be a good partner for the country as policy and law makers. I call on you, NGOs, to be professional, independent and equal partners for the country. Develop yourself, your volunteers, and work together within the sector and with business companies! Acting together for common goals will benefit both you and society more than fighting alone. Certainly, local governments, especially in addition to administrative reform and empowerment, will also be able to get to know and recognise their partners better. A simple thank you is also recognition. Thank you. I'm ready to answer questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U39	Thanks to the waitress! Peeter Ernitsal has the floor to ask a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U40	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Actually, I wanted to ask a question from a young man who used to be in this hall. Last week, there was a debate in the House on the health of liberal democracy, and fear was the keyword of a young man's speech in the halltop. I will not ask you what the keyword for civil society is. I ask whether it is really planned to increase this tax-free limit in order to increase the proportion of donations to non-governmental organisations. Can you give me a specific answer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U41	Thank you. Good people, I'm gonna start by saying that I don't think I'm too old. But when I come to this question, I will answer: yes, it is one of the proposals with which I, as Minister of the Interior, intend to go to the Cabinet. In fact, there is much more of these proposals. I have the opportunity to lead the EKAK Government Committee or rather not to manage it so much as to organise its work in cooperation, and I say that one of the aims of this committee is precisely a broad debate, not a typical ministerial leadership. In the last meeting of the Commission, we picked eight out of the various world practices with the various parties of the EKAK, a large part of whom are our strategic partners and other representatives of civil society organisations. The change you asked about is an option, and that's what I mentioned in my speech. In fact, there are quite a number of solutions, options, not even those that depend on the state budget at all, but other incentives to influence individuals and businesses to donate more. It is simply necessary to assess which of these are suitable for both the Estonian legal space and the space of certain traditions and make people donate more. I have always emphasised one thing: people are also made to donate better knowledge of what NGOs do and how they can be useful to the community, how they do things in common. Such information is, to some extent, advertising, which, as I said in my speech, could be much more effective in Estonia. We Estonians are often too modest in our daily conduct. In my opinion, in order to encourage our people to contribute more, we need to talk more about everything that NGOs have done. But once again, there are also many 'administrative factors' that need to be considered. My job is to take this matter to the government office in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U42	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U43	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. What is the structure of civil society in Estonia? After all, the NGO form also allows for low-profile business activities where funds can be applied for, housing associations can be formed, etc. One part of these associations is NGOs that are usually in the picture because they do some kind of charity: rescue associations, animal welfare organisations and other organisations focused on assistance. In fact, it's quite written. What kind of structure is this in Estonia anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U44	I begin by saying that I fully agree with the previous speaker that the advantage of civil society organisations and non-governmental organisations over the classical functioning of the state is that they have not been given any structure. They evolve according to the need for their activities in society, whether citizens feel an internal desire to join in one or the other, either for their own interests or, more broadly, for the protection of the community or the weak. But yes, we have two basic forms of this activity: a non-profit organisation and a foundation. When it comes to the structure of their activities, it is very difficult to highlight any particular structure, because the activity is indeed wall-to-wall. You indicated that some NGOs are also active in generating revenue. This is not something to blame for, for it is a social enterprise whose benefits go to the development of its activities. And social entrepreneurship is, in my opinion, to a large extent one of the future notes of Estonian civil society. It could certainly be developed, promoted and promoted, as it allows for more independence, which is very important for NGOs in the democratic rule of law. The same social entrepreneurship, which is still an evolving field of activity in Estonia, can also enrich the choice of services that our people and communities need. There are, of course, traditional activities that are largely linked to societal goals, but in their case, talking about what they are about and what they are about to end, it would be too much. Let us give NGOs the opportunity to act as necessary and together with society, developing together with society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U45	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You called on NGOs to be equal partners in the country. However, I think it is that equal partners for the country are those who are suitable partners for the government coalition. These ideas will be taken into account. I am referring to the tens of thousands of signatures that have been given to statements and have been left out somewhere. They are simply not taken into account, there are no negotiations. So there is no equal partnership. How do you see it? Why don't you think about it a little bit? Your previous speaker also spoke about the responsibility of every person, including the Riigikogu. If our decisions here depart from the positions that people have communicated to the Riigikogu, how can we comment on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U47	Thank you. Well, first of all, I call for a clear understanding of one thing: what is the work of the Riigikogu? This honourable work is certainly based on the democratic organisation of the Riigikogu, the way in which you take decisions in committees and in this large Chamber. These are democratic majority decisions. It's your responsibility. Having been a member of several Riigikogu members myself, I feel this responsibility very well. I am now moving from this meditation to the second ampluas. Your question concerned support for NGOs. You argued that the big brother's arguments were working to support NGOs. Big brother's giving grants under some kind of secret contract or a cooperation agreement or whatever. It doesn't exist! It is worth asking for permission to attend a meeting, for example. I do not know this internal procedure, but if you have a wish, as a member of the EKAK Commission and as an organiser of this work, I can ask permission from other members of the Commission and you can come and listen to the debate there. There's no covert deals, no matches. But you have the right to your opinion. You also have the right to have a diagnosis that has no medical basis at all, as is said in medicine. That is your right and it must be recognised. However, I would like to emphasise once again: it is always worthwhile to go in depth and see how these same funding arrangements are to be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U48	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! You called for equal partners for the country. Can we count those 14.7% who receive subsidies from the state, as partners in the country and not the rest? How could the rest of them be equal partners for the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U50	Thank you. I'd rather not hide it, but although it's very difficult to do it on this remote control, I'm going to leave the position of a representative of the state for a moment, and I'm going to suggest that maybe those who don't get support from the state are more equal partners. But that's my personal opinion. Returning to the position of a politician, I think that equality in fact means that the influence of NGOs in society, the importance of their message and how they are heard are equivalent to how society and the state interact. It is also closely related to society and civil society organisations. This is an expression of the parallel democratic processes of society and the state. It is certainly worth moving on to this subject, which I mentioned earlier in my speech. I called for more visibility in my activities, in my social role, in promoting my actions, in presenting my initiatives. Believe me, the country isn't some rigid rock that rolls down its gutters. It should be taken into account that if civil society organisations are equal partners, if they are visible in society and play a very serious role, as is generally the case in Estonia, this stone does not roll in such a way that it does not listen to its partners when policies are shaped and decisions are made. Otherwise, this partner may react in such a way that it is quite painful for the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U51	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U52	Thank you. Good minister! Civil society is an environment for democracy and personal freedoms, where people have the opportunity to influence political decisions. It is good to note that, in time, the concept of legitimacy and democracy has advanced. Participatory democracy requires the involvement of members of society and their ability to express their views regardless of their position and resources. My question to you is this: how well do you think your partners know each other? Is it often the case that active citizens are not well informed about the principles and decisions of the functioning of the state and that officials do not know much about the ladder of inclusion and are, in good case, limited to third-level information? What is your assessment of this? Is there a need for more mutual information about each other's actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U53	Thank you for your question. In today's fast world, this is a daily issue at the meetings of the EKAK Commission. We are also monitoring the involvement of civil society to a certain extent. This is not supervision with some sort of sanctioning purpose; rather, it is supervision of the move towards best practices to draw conclusions that have gone wrong in one process or another and how better could be done. Clearly, in today's fast life, the movement of information in any cooperation is one of the most important factors. If the right information does not arrive in time, then there will certainly be some false information in our passionate information society, including in the media space. It's the biggest risk. False information, false news is starting to move its course, and the right information cannot carry out its task. This is also often crucial from the point of view that you have in mind. Therefore, as such, the state must, to some extent, formalise the requirements for cooperation with civil society organisations in one matter or another. After all, the state operates largely on the basis of formal rules. This does not mean that officials could not take any further initiative and, when it comes to a matter concerning a civil society, to take an e-mail exchange without any formal requirement. You can also ask for an opinion by simply picking up the phone. Today, in order to discuss a question, there are all the possibilities available. One thing I keep reminding people at the Ministry of the Interior is that even when preparing a ministerial decree, it may touch on equipment for volunteer rescuers, for example, or something like that, ask them what they think about it. Definitely ask! We could manage without their opinion, because we're handing over something of the Home Office's assets to the volunteers anyway, but still ask for it. So I think that sharing information, access to information is crucial. After all, we have all the possibilities today, we have different electronic channels, where all the necessary information can hang up and, to a large extent, hang. At the same time, I also pointed out at the end of my speech that I certainly call on the local authorities to do this. There's still room for improvement. For example, the delegation of public services to Estonian municipalities has grown quietly, but only about 60% of municipalities use this possibility. The problem is certainly that information on how NGOs can help municipalities in their work is often very inadequate. Studies have also been carried out on this subject. For example, only 9.5% of respondents to the survey have given the service NGOs the task of providing feedback on how this work organisation works. So there is room for improvement, and that is why my call for local authorities. Especially when two or three municipalities, where there have been good NGOs partners, become one major municipality, maybe they forget about some of the old partners.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U54	Thank you. There is only half a minute left, but I will still give the floor to Helmut Hallemaa for the last question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U55	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Minister, thank you for your presentation. When it comes to structural issues, this issue has already been raised, but I am now asking directly that a non-profit association and a foundation are not equal to a civic community. This is why the terms 'free association' and 'freedom' have been introduced. During the discussions, it is always noted that more than 30,000 civil society organisations are half of the housing associations. Apartment cooperatives play a very important role in making homes more energy-efficient and more modern. In a sense, housing associations are also community-based associations. But here's my question. Is it a problem that non-governmental organisations or civil society organisations do not have a legal form in the legislation that is directly non-revenue-based, i.e. economic-based legal form? And should this be made more clear in statistics, even in summaries? How do you think this should happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U56	Thank you. That is a good question that we have also been working on in the EKAK Commission. Legally, everything is based on the foundation and NGO. This amplia is very wide, from housing associations to animal welfare, whatever. I think that the debate on extending these definitions is very welcome, and we have already started it. When we are talking about social entrepreneurship, for example, the concept of NGO does not particularly relate to it, it creates contradictions. But we are looking around the world more broadly, and we are not the only ones who have had to solve this problem. So it has a future. If we analyze these forms of activity at the Ministry of the Interior, we will see that the classification is much more diverse than the NGO and the foundation. There we really classify them according to goals, principles, structure, voluntary proportions of whatever. The picture is very written, but it is a good indication of how the meaning of the word 'civil society' extends in our country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U57	Thank you. Unfortunately, the time has passed for questions relating to this presentation. Despite the number 3 before Peeter Ernitsa's name, Peeter Ernitsa still has the possibility to ask a question, but he can only ask the following waitress. And the next waitress is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. A procedural question, please, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U58	Thank you, good manager. We usually hold our sessions in beautiful Estonian and our verbatim reports are in beautiful Estonian. As the word "EKAK" went through several times from the report that just ended, which I know is not yet in Estonian, I have a request in the interest of the verbatim and in the interests of history to clarify that it is a concept for the development of Estonian civil society. And I also have a suggestion to avoid such state-of-the-art abbreviations in our speeches.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U59	Thank you. There was no question in this speech, but I believe that our stenographers are nevertheless grateful to Mr Rosimnus for its addition and clarification. Does Andres Ammas have a procedural question? No, it's not. Then Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U60	Nu pak? EKAK Here they tried to determine who represents the age group. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I define myself as an old man, at least from time to time. It works well in my home village of Rimis, where goods have sometimes been moved on shelves, and when I say to some waitress that be good, help the old man, it works well. As far as the development of civil society is concerned, when I get older, I intend to establish an alliance of pensioners in Rakvere, Lightning and Pauk. I have chosen this name because other relevant names, such as Silver Yarn and Frost Hair, have already been taken away. Now I come closer to the topic of the Riigikogu debate. Indeed, we, or our predecessors, approved the concept of the development of Estonian civil society in the Riigikogu in December 2002, and we are on the brink of this 15th anniversary. I hope that the new director of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will make a small cocktail reception in December for those involved who contributed to this concept 15 years ago. I do not know how many of you read this concept before today's debate. Andres Anvelt spoke a little bit about its content, but I will go over a few keywords. First of all, the issue that has been the subject of this debate: what are civil society organisations and what was hoped to be achieved by acting in accordance with this concept. Now I'm gonna take a drink break, and you can think on your own what kind of civil society you think are, whether they're annoying characters who don't even want money, whether they're us or rebels. [[Drinks water.]] However, the creators of the concept of civil society have said as follows: civil society organisations are an indispensable factor in the development of democracy. In fact, there is also a definition in this concept: 'Citizens' associations are defined in this document as associations of different types, such as non-profit organisations, foundations, partnerships, etc., which are formed as a result of the exercise of the freedom of association of citizens. " Of course, the aim was to achieve better cooperation between civil society organisations and public authorities, including, as Mr Andres has already mentioned, the promotion of a citizens' initiative and participatory democracy, as well as, for example, the development of citizens' sense of responsibility towards their families, fellow citizens, their homes, their countries and the world. These last debates, arising from the outlook, whether to ban, limit or grow, we must here regularly and, of course, do so more often than once over a year. This list can be continued, for example, by recognising and taking into account the specific interests and needs of citizens and their associations, whether or not they are insufficiently represented. I don't know if it's clear to the parties who were meant to be today, but I assume it is. Of course, supporting keywords are active citizenship, participation, respect, partnership, responsibility. There was also a way to achieve the objectives. In order to achieve all these objectives, the concept of the development of Estonian civil society determines the basic obligations and rights arising from the cooperation between civil society organisations and public authorities relating to the recognition and representation of both parties, their partnership, the development of policies and the use and reporting of resources. There will be a point-to-point dissertation, which I do not think will actually make it any better. According to this concept, the Riigikogu organises a debate every second year on the relevant important national issue to discuss its implementation and the development of civil society. That is why today, on 28 September, this issue is being discussed here in the Riigikogu. What are my general conclusions about anno Domini 2017, looking at the proposals that have been made to the Riigikogu? Firstly, in the context of all this, there is a expectation of regulation, so that there may be something else to regulate in order to improve inclusion. I don't think I can. Things work when there's respect and real partnership. It's like that at home. Secondly, the problem of representation, the readiness of one area to operate under one roof and, in fact, to have a broad membership. When Lennart Meri said that it was common for Estonia to have one president at a time, there will be no celebrations for it this year, because it took place 14 years ago, then in civil society this number is usually two. This is not a competition issue, as seen by the Riigikogu and the government, it is a daily situation, and I also dare to use the word 'problem'. Martin said here that it is normal for different organisations to understand things differently and also to represent different points of view in the same area. I dare admit that, as Chairman of the Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee, I sent representatives of two organisations for similar interests out of the session during the debate, for the simple reason that their bickering between them did not take this discussion forward in the interests of the field. But maybe I behaved badly. During the preparation of today's presentation, I also browsed the letters of spring. One of the chairmen of the Commission wrote: 'A strategic partnership between the state and civil society must be formulated more precisely and the criteria that this representative organisation could meet as a strategic partner. ' We're actually talking about the same thing. I am perhaps speaking against the first point here, if I supported it, but in fact I think that the possibility of reducing this problem is in many ways in the hands of civil society organisations themselves. It might lead to this definition, but once again, things work if they can discuss and agree between each other. If you want to look at whether or not things happen in politics, then the place where you look at it is indeed a coalition agreement. Andres Anvelt stopped on it a little bit too. It states, for example, that there is a plan to organise the financing of NGOs, to make it more stable and more ambitious, and to develop a clearer policy to support the inclusion and participation of NGOs, I do not quite know how well this can be achieved and encourage social entrepreneurship. We know that some things are in work, for example, to improve the same funding opportunities. But with funding, it is still not that any restrictions and regulations are one thing; the most important thing is, in fact, the existence of money. If there's money, you can still finance it. However, a task force for the development of public sector and social innovation has also been working. A draft of this final report is available on the website of the State Chancellery. The proposals on social entrepreneurship have also been agreed and I hope that they will happen in turn. There are a number of concrete proposals that could also improve the functioning of our civil society in this area of business. As a geologist, this is an evolutionary process in which we participate, although it is much faster than in the rock world. Man's life is also fleeting compared to geological history, and we would like to see changes during our lifetime. I dare to recommend a political party as an opportunity to realise my proposals, through a mandate that has been acquired. Collective appeals to the Riigikogu have already been made in half of the political parties. You can look at what proposals have been made by the Centre Party, Greens or... This list could be continued, it's pretty interesting. In any case, the ears of political parties appear from behind several initiatives, or the people of the civil state find themselves going in and out of the door of a political party after some process at Toompea. There's nothing wrong with that. The party has exactly the same opportunity to implement its own understanding of how the state can be improved. Now for the money from the roof. It can be demonised, but I do not know for sure whether it could also be in the interests of civil society. It is often money that could not get so close to civil society through some kind of civil society foundation or other mechanism. Of course, there may not be money, politicians could do without it, but a ceramic circle or a robotic circle would not be done for the countrymen. What the fuck! Life is a complex and dynamic thing, enormously sectoral, and it does not make sense to focus everything on a single approach. Good things happen without concept. For example, a father makes a bus stand for his daughter, as you may have recently seen on television. In his speech, Martin Noorkõiv also tried to diagnose the situation of civil society in 2017 and this was as follows: 'The situation of civil society is relatively good. ' In the autumn of 2019, it is expected that a similar discussion will take place between those elected who will be in the next Riigikogu. Well, we'll see if there's anything to add to that diagnosis. To conclude, I have discovered on my desk such a thing as 'The manifesto of free associations for 2015 Riigikogu elections'. There is such a place that although volunteers are enormous in Estonia, and tens of millions of people of Estonia are producing added value each year, 42% of people in Estonia are still waiting for either an invitation to volunteer or have not found an opportunity to participate in volunteer work. It's been two years, I don't know if that percentage is right. Personally, I propose a director's position in a non-profit organization, working on Saturdays, Sundays and evenings, no pay, maybe you have to pay for the location in Rakvere. Please contact me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U61	Thanks to the waitress! There are a number of questions. First, Peter Ernits asks. Since Mr Ernitsa is not in the Chamber at the moment, we are giving the opportunity to put a question to Mr Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U62	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Lately, several interesting articles have been published on the financing of the third sector and of NGOs in particular. In my opinion, they have reiterated the motive that our NGOs and the third sector are too heavily dependent on the money coming from the state budget. At all, these associations are more of a government extension; the political impact on them is too great. Please, how do you comment on these statements? Is that a problem in your eyes? If so, do you have any idea how to reduce this addiction? Among other things, the idea of distinguishing between non-governmental organisations established by the state and local authorities from other non-governmental organisations has been proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U63	Thanks! In my opinion, this political integration means a complex society where there are people and associations who are more political and others who are less political. I don't see a problem in this on my own. I could in some ways agree with Andres Anvelt's statement that what independence and partnership are. Indeed, the lack of public money can lead to greater equality than the existence of state money. In my opinion, in various areas, non-profit organisations themselves or their umbrella organisations have had a consistent desire that this or another specific association should be mentioned in the law and, of course, that it would also be guaranteed a certain line in the state budget as a long-term partner. I think that moderate behaviour could still be that such things should not appear in the law in the form of a specific non-profit association or organisation. Maybe there's some exceptions here, I haven't done that kind of analysis. This can certainly be done if there are long-term partners, as has been suggested, and there is practice in several ministries that there is a multi-annual financing agreement. But there's no point in creating this kind of black and white handwriting. We need to look at the world from a piece and we need to look at each piece separately, but I am against further regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U64	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! When I asked Home Secretary Andres Anvelt, which side is a bigger partner for the country, he thought 85.3% of non-profits could handle their expenses and letters, and he also called for sustainability. Am I right to understand that the 14.7% of NGOs receiving public money are not sustainable and that is why the state finances them, so that they are as sustainable as the 85% who are not receiving public money? Am I on the right track?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U66	Thanks! I think every situation is a little different. If we are talking, for example, about representative organisations, it would actually be the most normal thing if the organisations that this umbrella organisation represents put together funds to protect their interests. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, the devil is not the situation where state funding is guaranteed to a representative organisation that deals with the protection of civil rights or, I don't know, patients' rights, whatever. It also creates this kind of responsibility, if it works well, it is indeed a struggle to get these opinions together. This does not, in itself, mean that the opinions that come together are friendly to the country's partner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U67	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I very much agree with you that civil society does not need so much regulation at the legislative level. But what about cooperative economic activity? How do you appreciate this side? Is there any need for legislative regulation to boost this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U69	Thanks! We haven't heard of such a sharp need, otherwise we would have dealt with it. You can still do different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U70	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your character, as we know and have read, there is a strong creative beginning, so I ask you to fantasize on such a subject as 'Citizen associations in 30, 40 and 50 years', or half a century', given the fact that the fragmentation of the interests of society and people is an ever-increasing process, and perhaps the fact that Estonian residents live much longer and more people are mature. If you'd like to fantasize, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U72	Thanks! I've already put out my personal vision that, since I'm aging too, Lightning and Bang are the nonprofit organization in Rakvere where I can realize myself. I think fragmentation will increase over time. There are now animal welfare organisations, for example, and there are probably some other examples of organisations that maybe ten years ago did not exist in this form and they did not have such effectiveness. These issues are coming up, and we may not be able to name them all today. This situation is roughly the same, I think that employers do not know exactly which workers and jobs are needed in the company in 20 years' time. I think that the themes on which the keyword NGO will be used will come up and the picture will get even more written.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U73	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U74	Mr. Pomerants! Obviously, life has been arranged in such a way that we are in the same committee in the Riigikogu, both of us completely unforeseen. I guess neither of us could see that coming. But since, in some strange way, your performance and this item on the agenda have come to the time of the local election campaign, I wonder if you are running for office now and, if so, where in the municipality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U75	Thanks! I'm running for Rakvere City Council election, number 161. By the way, my proposal was to have this debate after the local elections, precisely because perhaps the atmosphere would be more calm. But I have to admit, my fear has been in vain. This debate has been going on for almost two hours and, in fact, it has gone on completely politely, there has been no show-off, the questions have been relevant, and I think the presentations too. After all, before the elections, people will continue to do their professional work, for example, politicians. It is not always worth being intimidated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U76	Andres Ammas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U77	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! During the Soviet era, it was the valued and beloved collective farm chairman or factory director who kicked out the so-called fund and limit from Moscow. This mentality, in my opinion, lives on in the current Estonian society. Now it's deformed to the effect that it's the tough guy who's bringing as much of the country's money from Toompea as he can. Many colleagues are not ashamed to brag in the local press about bringing this money here or to make big posters that I brought and so much. In the third sector, NGOs, do you think there is such a mentality and if there is, how much then? Instead of thinking about how to bring more private donations or how to bet more on membership fees, we still think more about choosing a man or a woman who kicks it out and brings it home.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U78	I have two or even three comments. I think the rooftop money's got some good things to do sometimes. I'll give you an example and no bragging. In Lääne-Virumaa, the storm took away the entire tower of the Church of Väike-Maarja. People put their strength together, and the decision was made. I do not know how a congregation, which is also an example of a specific civil society, could have done so alone. I've been watching life in this field. By the way, I'm not bragging when I say that I think it's quite wrong to assume that all of this is possible, but maybe a little? was also converted into votes. We need about 2,000 votes, but maybe three of them are behind this particular act. It is not possible to convert society into voices with money; it is also wrong in its nature. I can say, based on my experience in civil society, that I have been working as a minister for six years, it is not such a civil society thing, and I have never been under stress because of this profession, but I have been without sleep because I am worried about how a civil society organisation could go and what else needs to be done to make it better. In front of those people who bother to do something even after it ends'must', I always take off my hat in autumn and winter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! Civil society is relatively well developed in Estonia. In order for the picture to be even better, it is essential that the state's support for civil society organisations is available where necessary. But where, in what area do you think civil society is not working or not working enough, where there is room for cooperation, or where you see a stagnation in the development of civil society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U80	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U81	Thanks! During my working life in various occupations, I have encountered areas where social and health issues, internal security and environmental issues are addressed, and I have felt the functioning of civil society everywhere. For example, I cannot say from these three examples that there would be something different in one area here in Estonia than in another. It's relatively uniform, there's activity. I think that the partnership is also substantive and still depends very much on people. It does not depend on what regulation is, but on whether the big people can discuss matters with each other in substance, even though their views and views do not come together at other times. I saw Andres Ammas grumping at my answer because I didn't answer his question. I'm trying to say it differently. What I'm saying is that you never have to take the lead in any non-profit organization on the basis that it comes with the hope of getting some kind of state money. It's a daily hard work, it's a job to be done by a person who actually wants to do something, not once a year, but a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U82	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U83	Thank you. Good waitress! Mikko Lagerspetz has once found in an article dissecting civil society that the dialogue may be annoying, in vain and even harmful, but a statesmanly-thinking ruler, in the opinion of the politician and the official, should stand up for someone to challenge him for any political decision. How do you feel about how much of this good will we have to engage in dialogue and actually practice such cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U84	Thanks! Again, I think it's actually personic. It's all in a formalized form. All these development documents and concepts have led to the existence of practices and procedures, and there are even people in ministries who need to stand up for keeping this area alive so that things and communication work. If we now come to the ministers, for example, a specific person, I think it is very important that, in such key discussions, for example, be the case, I do not know whether to cut a tree or, in fact, to be at a top-level table. It really doesn't matter whether you like one position or another, it's important that dialogue becomes an agreement and a common part. I think we have to bet on that. We have people on both sides of each level who can and will take this process. This has been the case in my life for the last 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U85	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U86	Mr. Pomerants! I'll continue with my last question. Do you think you're likely to be elected to Rakvere City Council? If that is the case, what is your current assumption, are you going to be there, giving up this place, or maybe, God forbid, you're giving up Riigikogu place instead? My question has a little personal background. I used to be in three Tartu City Councils. I think it was good for me, spiritually at least, and probably also for the city of Tartu. But my physical health was completely destructive by this two-way commuting back and forth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U87	Thanks for the question! It's easy to answer. And look how I can talk about my election campaign right now, so the eye won't look. But I'm gonna be honest with you. When we talk about the list of IRLs in Rakvere City, it is a strong list of the first 10 to 12 people (maybe there are more) who can become a member of the council. A chance like this could hit me. But I'm not counting on it, I'm working for it, and I'm not doing it about Riigikogu working time, even though we're even making 366 days of service in a year of overlay. As far as my participation is concerned, I also think it is a good thing. I can be seen in Rakvere other than at the council all the time, the last time I was there was this morning. I sincerely believe that this will benefit both parties, both the Rakvere Council and me, in the work of my Riigikogu, and I intend to contribute to it. I think a time like this can be found, it can be planned. I'm in favour of having that chance. The members of the Riigikogu will not condemn, I think, any council if they become elected. But, of course, we should really get on it by then.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U88	Peter Ernits, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U89	Good manager! Good waitress! I hate to be part of your election campaign, but you said as a retired, you're setting up the Alliance of Retirement Lightning and Bang. Rakvere pensioners, I think that others would also like to know what such an association of pensioners will do, in which way it will be different from the current Härma yarns and other such associations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U90	Thanks! I'll see what my condition is by then and how brutal things I can do in terms of physical activity. I still have a lot to go to, I haven't drawn up this charter yet.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U91	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U92	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In some areas, there is a need to support civil society organisations; they simply cannot manage otherwise, for example in the cultural field, but there are other areas. What is your position on whether the state should support these organisations?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U93	Thanks! I do not think there will be such a time, and there will not be a time, if there are no funding possibilities available in the state budget for the various sectors. I don't want a country like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U94	Any more questions? No further questions. Well, then, thank you very much for the waitresses. Now is the opportunity for the representatives of the political groups to take the floor first. I expect that whoever takes the floor first will also have a mandate from the group, or rather the one who has registered first, will also have a mandate from the group. As the representative of the Reform Party Group is Heidy Purga, the first to speak is Aadu Black. [[The excitement in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, just to make it clear that we are giving the floor to the representatives of all the political groups on the basis of registration. As the Reform Party stated that they were represented by Heidy Purga, the first member of the registered Reform Party's group will be given the floor after the representatives of the political groups have spoken, i.e. as the seventh. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U95	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, History will never be finished, because each generation will ask new questions to history as a collective experience. Life goes on. The only thing that seems to be complete is the concept of the development of Estonian civil society, which we are currently discussing, which was completed in 2002. When Mr Martin Noorkõiv introduced me, I was glad that it was pleasantly wide. In fact, this issue has been discussed and spoken well in the past about various, usually narrow things, the fly on the elephant's trunk. I tried to sum up how many definitions or definitions there were for civil society, but I ended when I was 40. I thought you didn't need to read any more. When I start looking at how many different ideas there are in Estonia or in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, there are a little less than 40. The thing is, all these definitions agree on one thing. Civil society is a society where each citizen's creative initiative is used for the benefit of society as a whole. It is usually considered to provide synergies as well. It is said that if something is done in the course of a citizens' initiative, so imagine it! For the city's municipality to have paid 100 money, but the civil society did it with 80 money. Sometimes it is said that it doesn't matter how much it costs, let it do 100 with money when it teaches, trains, and develops itself. Of course, I will not repeat the dozens of positive examples or the negative ones that have already been through here, there is no need for that. However, there is an interesting question: what will make civil society come true? And you know, I started to like it when Mr. Noorkõiv said that the subject was very old, since the French Enlighteners. Listen, the French illuminators Voltaire and others taught how good the enlightened absolutism is one of the wise ones who thinks, but others are more civilized. Later, the contribution of a simple person, a simple citizen, has been discussed. Since I only have eight minutes, not two times 45, as I'm used to, I'll just give you a couple of eloquent examples. One of the main points of debate is what has been discussed in Estonia for 130 years. How could a citizens' initiative be expressed under the leadership of the state or, let us say, our own country? Yes, of course. And then what? 130 years have been discussed in Estonia whether the leadership initiative must go from the bottom up or from the top down. In the Russian Empire in 1870 it was found that Estonians have lost their minds, and they want to do a bottom-up county government. In this regard, the knighthoods and the Ministry of the Russian Empire later found President Päts, because he had the power to build all the county levels in this way: no, no, not from the bottom up, but from the top down. Pätsi should not be blamed for the fact that Jaan Tõnisson did this because it was a disease of that time. We tend to take over for some reason now. Oh, nostalgia! Then that's it, let's do it. If you look at the development plans and projects of Estonian civil society, you will see one amazing thing that distinguishes us from another European cultural space. This is that we have been through without local government in 2002. Even here, when the questions were asked, Laine Randjärv asked how you feel about local government. Then the answer was very correct: read the 2002 document. And, you know, it's like the local government doesn't really exist. Look, look, and judge again. The point is that the first analysis of Estonian civil society was carried out 130 years ago. It must have been signed by Deputy Minister of the Interior, Shebeko, who, by the way, has written something off from Mr Anvelt, how to finance associations and so on. At the time, they did find no money to be given. Don't give him a fish, give him a fishing line! Let the company have certain privileges in order to keep themselves alive. They can run lotteries, show sales, and God knows what else. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U96	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U97	So they were given. In the analysis of civil society, 130 years ago, it was found that societies must be useful to the state. Especially good if they have umbrella organizations, and even better if they are very high, because then they will become a loyal, loyal and controlled ally of the government. No, not below. Let us look back at the European experience once. The foundation of civil society is the local authority through which civil society initiatives are realised. It is better to put an umbrella organisation in the report, which is doing a very big thing. They're busy when they're on the ground. In the opinion of European thinkers, the subsidiarity principle of decision-making on the ground adds up to 40% efficiency. In addition, education and training. Let me give you another example. We have a great deal of debate about whether we are making civil society, making an inclusive budget. I have been asked whether an inclusive budget is good or bad. As a schoolteacher, I'm about to say: very good. He teaches what society is, and so on. But is he really necessary? No, it's not really. If there is a local government crisis and trust is falling, then such pedagogical techniques are needed to bring people closer. Pedagogically, this is important. Poverty is hard to share. The main causes of the crisis in Estonian civil society are still elsewhere. Remember when local government financing fell to 11.4%. No matter how you try to redistribute poverty, it doesn't work. It will not reach 60% or 40% in order to promote and move civil society forward. Let me give you another quick example. As everyone is talking about elections, I refer to one of the 2017 electoral platforms of the Tartu City Council, but you try to guess whose it might be, and what links it could have to civil society. The platform talks not only about the potential income of urban assets, but also about urban land and forests, about the ports of Emajõgi River and about the waterways of Lake Emajõe and Lake Peipsi, about fixing swimming pools, progressive income tax, children's playgrounds, funeral grants, consumer protection and alcohol management. Besides, they're proud to see that they have women on the list. Anybody dare guess who that could be? There's no soccer, there's no middle or nobody. This year was 1917 and was presented by civil society activists Jaan Tõnisson, Karl Parts, who was still our former colleague's great uncle, Heinrich Koppel, our great-grandfather, Anton Jürgenstein, priest Laar, businessman Kikerpil, etc. Very well said: do not stand still, you must run. In the Parliament of other countries, it is not the details that are discussed, but the direction to run. How civil society is built, either from the bottom up or from the top down, is the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U98	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask Mr Tanel Talve.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen and guests! There has often been a situation in which only such a sentence can be said as a summary after long discussions and pronouncements: 'It should be done to make it nice. " Not deciding who will then do what he will do, when and with what result. This is also the case sometimes in civil society organisations and also here, in a respectable Chamber. But what a civil society organisation operates at a more basic level is more concrete and realistic. Good friends! I am speaking here not only as a member of the Social Democrat and the Riigikogu, but also as one of the leaders of my village of Voose village society. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that civil society is not an unfathomable or abstract grey mass. It's actually made up of lonely people. In my opinion, we should pay more attention to these people in particular, and also take this into account in supporting the development of civil society at national level. I would like to thank Anneli Kana from the village movement Kodukant Harjumaa, with whom we reached the conclusion last night that if there is already a meeting, whether it is a village society or an NGO operating in the field of social welfare, mostly because of a specific activity, because of a problem that needs to be solved, because of the establishment, organisation or creation of something. We should not complain about passive citizens, we should not complain about our own initiative and we have much to do in Estonian society. However, at the same primary level, there may be a few things left unfinished or unfinished, as the initial focus of excitement runs into excessive bureaucracy, state-of-the-art rules and instructions, or opposition from the other party. Civil society is a voluntary sector. However, if a person's voluntary contribution remains a heavy burden of administration, documents, small-scale requests for money, what is the result? Giving up, giving up, burning out more conscientiously. And that last one is an ever-growing problem in society. The village movement has begun to deal with it. In addition to this year's SKI/Civic Association Foundation's experience, there is a separate working group to deal with the burnout of people in the voluntary sector. You should ask the village runners or free-willed sprayers or volunteer marine rescuers, which causes stress in this noble activity or why burnout is a threat. It's not a challenge or a gig at the village house. That is the excessive bureaucracy, overregulation and fragmentation. More time should be spent on preparing, proving, waiting, reporting and then proving applications. In addition to all this, we can still proudly say that there are very good players in our civil society. All the money prescribed will be used for projects, the reports will be ready, but then we will ask what action brings joy to the heart and smile to the lips. Saved Lives, Restocked Villages, or Confirmed Report? Multi-talents operating in our civil society, they must be equally successful suppliers of information, administrators, vocalists, bureaucrats, procurers, construction supervisors, experts in their field, project managers, conference speakers, party organisers. Crazier ones are also part of some umbrella organisations that communicate with the state. Ministries keep engaging, asking for opinions, often three to five times in a day. In the end, however, the project application has a point of sustainability. Good listeners! It is not a question of the sustainability of civil society as some unfathomable mass; it is actually a question of people's ability to continue, of being a voluntary multitalent. So I have the call: we are also trying to be more specific here in support of the development of civil society, so that the end result of today's debate is not just a statement 'We should make it nice'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U100	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, Külliiki Kübarsepp. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U101	Thank you to those who are left here during this tight campaign period! I am in a slightly divided position on this issue because I am a member of the NGO Telliskivi Society, as well as a member of the Pelgulinna Society, the oldest of the settlement banks in Tallinn since 1992. I am also a member of the Voluntary Association Defence League, now also a member of the Riigikogu. I feel more and more unable to make all people work together in these bodies, even though it is quite possible. In the Free Party, however, we have defined our position as a representative of civil society. In the sense that in 2010, when several active societies were formed and a few years later, when there were civil unrest due to the government's leadership, this was a reason and an incentive for the Free Party, for example, to come here in the first place. This is an example of how a form of civil society could exist. But there is a great deal of concern for political parties, as such, which are not acceptable in terms of civil society. It is therefore very important to us that we, as legislators, still begin to distinguish between different forms of civil society. This is also the basis for the many questions that have been asked, which relate specifically to funding and understanding, which is a national or local government NGO and which is not/is not. For example, today we are talking in the non-profit sector about associations such as non-profit organisations, religious associations, foundations, political parties, housing associations, partnerships. I can define myself in these five categories. But in the case of financial allocations, are we talking about party money from the state budget going to that part? For example, 5.4 million of the state budget comes from purely political parties each year, while the Tax and Customs Board calculates the revenue of the non-governmental organisation within the meaning of 2015 only EUR 1.6 million. After all, this is a very big difference and a fundamental difference in itself. Please, we're open and we'll make it clear! Because then we will also understand what civil society is and what the community is. The first rapporteur stressed that our affairs and needs had changed. Indeed, they have changed and are changing even more, but we in this Chamber and the people standing near us and around us do not feel it in the same way. We don't realize what a community is, we're actually understating the ability to negotiate. It's that sadness. The second proposal of the Free Party, based on the first one being made clear, is indeed that opportunities must be created to increase the capacity of civil society representatives to collect financial support from the private sector. We are talking about both entrepreneurs and private donations. There are very many examples of this in Europe. However, one conclusion can be drawn from these examples: it has been very bureaucratic, because there has been a great deal of abuse. That is why it is very important that we find very simple solutions. The Free Party has brought under discussion the so-called one percent draft, which talks about a small percentage of income tax that we should get back every year to make appropriate choices from there. What have we noticed? We have clashed with it, as we experience in this Chamber, that maybe the proposer is from the wrong party or from the wrong party, so we tend to be in civil society too, so that the proposals are not accepted or even discussed. That's sad. The representative of civil society must not allow things to continue in this way, but must necessarily seek methods of mutual action. I'm speaking here as a representative of the Society. Why did I ask the question, do you not sense that there is a distinction between small players, big players? We do, because it affects funding issues. Let's say that someone in South Estonia, such as a small village society, promotes their people, creates motivating activities for them to remain in that country, but then comes from some umbrella organisation and they say that because they don't do a great deal or organise an opinion festival, they don't qualify as recipients. That's not the attitude I want to hear and accept. We need to value all forms of non-profit organisation, regardless of their size, because capacity is growing with practice and experience. Often we do not even value a volunteer. The pomerants brought out a very clear ad here, because life is actually the case. The Brick Society has also emerged to resolve certain issues, these things have reached some stage, but now the question is whether the same company wants to move on. Perhaps it is also a question of civil society and our capacity to talk along, whether we will have a new generation when they see that everything they are doing is very difficult. There has also been talk of inclusion here today. One form of inclusion that we could solve is the same method of sharing the roof money. If we do not want to lose it in this Chamber there is a very strong opposition to it, then perhaps we could make the principles of sharing it open, more inclusive, so that civil society representatives from different regions can say that this is the action that we need and that we need support. But we don't want to go along with it either. In summary, we must continue to raise each other's awareness of what the community is and what civil society is. We need to talk openly about how to increase the activity of civil society organisations. We need to create opportunities to reduce direct dependence on the country and see how we, as individuals or businesses, can support these activities more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U102	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please, Heidy Purga! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U103	Hello, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much. Thank you very much. When I began to prepare my presentation yesterday, or rather the day before yesterday, I thought of all the people with whom I sit in this Chamber every day. I was thinking about my first association with these people, about their personal contribution to civil society, about the first initiatives or about the first things that I remember, about specific groups or specific lines. This list and these associations are very subjective, but I'd just like to mention some of them. I'm starting to move under the window, although some of these people aren't sitting in this hall today. For example, Kalvi Tõik, a member of the Social Democratic Party, is actively involved in the activities of the voluntary rescue unit of Rõuge. Helmut Hallemaa, who also actively asked a lot of questions here today, is active in civil society seminars, and he has probably also made a major contribution to the development of the civil society agenda. Speaking of the Reform Party, I am thinking of our boys, whose exemplary activity and active participation in the service of the Defence Forces have stood out as reserve officers. A free party such as Artur Talvik, a voluntary sea rescue. EKRE from Henn Põlluaas, who is an active member of the Finnish Boy Heritage Society as well as other societies. IRL Maire Aunaste, who has organized Sunday flea markets throughout Estonia, where she is also present. As I mentioned, this list is subjective and, in reality, it is much longer than these individual examples. I would like to say that we are all members of civil society, people who care better, more diverse, more meaningful and more considerate lives, whether on their own home street, in our own settlement, in our own village or in our own city, eventually in our own country. And if we do not declare this directly in our daily lives, it is because the spirit of civil society is deep within the roots of our culture. Now that we may feel a little more confident, we have the opportunity and advantage of continuing what our grandparents once did, who kept the family together and distributed their help and attention between generations, even in their village, because it was the only way to survive and to keep life together. They kept their senses together. They maintained their senses in their community across Estonia. We in this Chamber are citizens and citizens' representatives. In order for the concerns of active people to find the right solution for a stronger and more targeted progress, the state or local government must be a good partner for these people to listen to them and recognise their activities, because this is very important, in a way other than calls. Reliable partners, but bilateral, are needed to enable civil society's ideas to materialise. But now I'd be a politician for a moment, if I may. If cooperation in common policy-making is open and purposeful, then it is normal that, with the support of the state, the citizen society also plays a role outside the state structures and does so well, especially where it is in and near the community. The role of the state is to keep the structure of longer partner contracts in operation here, so that any person who at some point in his life feels willing and eager to contribute can do so in a reasonable way. You don't always have to invent the whole bike. At the same time, it is important to keep part of the funding for new, emerging areas and ideas and initiatives. For example, the support distributed by the Gambling Tax Board and related to it has been under discussion for a long time. Was the distribution of this money politicised, would it disappear if the Council disappeared, and would the money be distributed, for example, by the Ministry? We can discuss all of this in this Chamber if there are amendments made by the government. To what extent and in what way can the state support those initiatives that do not, as if, fulfil the country's policies and strategic objectives? Does it have to remain a purely private initiative? Often, as a citizen, we are closest to a local government, and here the partnership must be daily. The Reform Party also has two proposals that we have written down. One is cooperation of good practice, i.e. principles for cooperation between Tallinn City Council and city government and between NGOs operating in Tallinn. One idea is, among other things, the settlement fund, its establishment. This means, in principle, an inclusive budget, where a certain amount of budget can be decided each year by local residents on the start-up side, civil society organisations and supported regional plans, whether it be a park, a sports field or, for example, a meeting place that makes our home place better and gets the support of the people in the region. We all want our home place to be beautiful and our children to be good and safe to play. All of us in this Chamber are obliged to develop, contribute and take forward civil society. Now I'd like to tell you a story about young Jaan Tõnisson, to whom the schoolmaster once told a story about seven brothers. Before their sons grew up, their father had taken seven twigs and taught them what joint action was. He gave every son a twig and asked him to break it in half. Everyone did it. Then he took the other seven twigs, and bound them into one whole, a bundle of rod, and asked his sons to break it in half. None of them made it. 'Dear sons,' said the father, 'Always stick together as firmly in your life as this bouquet, because it has power and protection. Alone, you're a lousy twig that anyone can break in half. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U104	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I would like to ask Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U105	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good people who are watching us over the Internet! Words, words, words. Nice words. We are talking about a lot of different terms, but unfortunately, they are misleading. So let's agree once that when we're talking about non-profits, we're talking about non-profits. All of these sounds of terms of the outdoors, troubles, honeycombs, etc. are somewhat misleading. Perhaps it would be good if a colleague did not have to tell us in advance. NGO, a non-profit association, an NGO, a non-profit association, but an abbreviation in English, and GONGO, which is an abbreviation of English words and means a non-profit association formed by the state. These are the terms that I would like to touch at this point. The fact is that both European and Estonian citizens are increasingly giving up their independence, because they have become dependent on state support. To get money for their activities, they have to make concessions. I'd ask if these NGOs were designed to do something. Then there should be no reason for money again. I think it takes a will. We realize that the will may break in a certain place, but there is nothing special about it. It's the will that makes it work. I still haven't figured out when the NGO came in and said that 2,000 kroons is the money we're gonna make a website for and keep it up for a year. I said, what happens in a year? Are you going to make this website again and keep it up for a year, or are you going to ask for 1,000 kroons less? That was ten years ago. Yeah, no one understood that. Let's talk about numbers. Someone here told us about the development fund, which is a great idea. I would remind you that I have been elected from Kristiine, a member of Kristiine's administration for 12 years. We had two associations in Kristiine: one was the Lilleküla Society, the other was the Kristiine Society. The first of them fought against the price of electricity, and the main departure they had was that they organized a concert and paid the board member a fee for performing with the band. The second was the Kristiine Society, which fought against the price of electricity. Now, if you want to put that settlement fund in there, I'm gonna say no. I wanted to say no way, but let's say no in Estonian. I have been in Kristiine district's committee for the oversight of NGO foundations and financial applications for 12 years. No one in this hall has yet talked about the fact that in Kristiine district we distribute EUR 2 000 per year to 33000 inhabitants. This makes six euro cents per Kristiine resident. With this six euro cent, we encourage every citizen of Kristiine to participate in civil society, associations, sports associations and all this. I don't understand. Sports clubs, for example, are non-profit-making. While young musicians want to make a band, they do it under a private limited company. The difference is, athletes want honor and fame, but young bands only want fame, because honor is clearly not for musicians. That's why it's not strange, and it's still a little bit of youth work. The fact that young people themselves voluntarily pay for their own tryouts, studios and pills or inject themselves on the street is not an important part of our citizens and society. Let's perhaps talk about another little nuance of politicism. Four years ago, on 21 October, I asked the management of the NGO Football Hospital to resign because I was accused of excessive politicisation, I was political. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U106	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U107	Thanks! On September 11, this year, when 100 years of age became one of the oldest non-profit organizations in Estonia, I submitted a resignation request from the Estonian Flag Society. That's because this NGO wouldn't be blamed for too much politicism. Yes, it is not difficult for me to go with all these patriotically minded young people to raise the flag on the anniversary of the Republic or even on 4 June when the Riigikogu represented two and a half men. Exactly two and a half men: the President of the Riigikogu, Marko Šorin, member of the Estonian Flag Society leaving the Riigikogu, and Tarmo Kruusimäe, representative of the Estonian Flag Society. This was then the representation of the rest of the Riigikogu. Two and a half men, cry or laugh, but we can laugh even more. It is a beautiful debate on how 14.5% of those who receive state support because they are otherwise unsustainable, and the remaining 85% who can manage. Yeah, with the NGO Football Hospital we asked for money from KÜSK during the crisis years and the self-financing was 60%. The goal was to do things with the police. Football fans together with the police took a seminar on how to better achieve common goals, i.e. to go safely to the stadium, be safe in the stadium and come back from the stadium. Because the police didn't have the money. The same football fans who thought they might be over-politicized. I'd tell you long and broad around here. I don't really know what volunteering is because I've been doing it all along. Not that it's the reason I've resigned from non-profits that I haven't gotten any cents or that they haven't even compensated my phone bills. It's not that, it's the fear that these NGOs that I've done with my heart may be under political attack. Believe me, all the NGOs I've gone into have been tried to hijack. The last NGO we wanted to do was form a partnership so that no one could hijack our sacred cause. At least he's fixed. Roof money. If you are saying that roofing money is bad, let us consider the kindergartens of Tallinn for a moment. Thanks to six members of the Central Party Group, the kindergartens in Tallinn received money to repair the city, and thanks to eight city councillors who also received the roofing money, the kindergartens in Tallinn were fixed. Because the central party Tallinn City Government does not have time to deal with kindergartens, because they admire their belly button mainly through central television. Finally, I would like to tell you a beautiful philosophical thought about the film 'Arabella, the daughter of a pirate.' Maybe he's right. Maybe he's right. Maybe he'll make a little bit more money with the good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U108	Next, please, George Adams!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U109	If you paraphrase Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, you could say that one ghost goes around Estonia, the ghost of civil society. I'm taking this opportunity to think a little about it and call on you for help. If we just want to go a little further than doing words on this subject, we should make some of the agreements that certain expressions mean and how to proceed with this work. I start with thinking different from a lot of other specific activities, let's say, sewing the button, cleaning the feet on a mat or breaking a tree, because for all of them, the experience of previous generations is ahead of us, how to do something most rationally. But the first thing about thinking is that the object you're looking at should be divided into reasonable parts and those reasonable parts should be given usable names. I don't know how many of you have had the same experience I had in life and when I was quite young. Indeed, after the Communists had taken over Estonia, in the spring of 1941, a number of the then Official Journal's figures were published, which contained dozens of pages of names from the associations, which were partly profit associations, partly non-profit associations, which the then Minister of the Interior banned from him with extraordinary powers. He's disbanded these associations. This is a very important experience, I believe that at least Aadu Black has seen these things, and I would advise everyone to look at it, because what was then disbanded was what we are trying to talk about here today, very artificially, under the name of civil society. It is true that there was no general concept of such a phenomenon in Estonia at the time. Now that we have regained our independence, we have faced the question in many ways: what then is what we want to restore, even in this particular area. And then we got into a new situation because in the meantime the United States had become the world's leading country and English had become the leading language. However, English is quite an incompetent language in all matters affecting society. For example, the corresponding terminology of the Estonian language developed from the point of view of the German language space concepts, but they are simpler and more logical than those of the English language. There was no other way for the English people to compromise using the expression civil society. And then, when they dominated and our independence was restored, a question arose here too and asked everywhere else in the world, but where is your civil society, do you build it and do it? We got into a terrible situation with it. First, it was translated as a civil society, and then came to civil society. But in any case, this combination of words is bad, and we still don't know exactly what we mean by it and whether we can share it somehow. I guess we're having some kind of general vision right now that could fit down there... I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U110	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U111	There is certainly a part of the associations that have been set up by law, such as all the things necessary for the administration of apartment buildings. Can we also deal with them in the general group? There are things that have arisen on people's own initiative, are semi-state or state-stealing organisations, such as political parties, and there are other things. However, one important phenomenon is where it is essentially a matter of abuse or abuse. These are, first, the formal private entities that the State has put into effect and are also among the foundations. Then there are a lot of such, I would say, tick companies that obtain daily living money for their members, mainly from the pockets of national taxpayers. Do we have to do all of them? That's a problem in itself. On the one hand, it has been, for example, that, during the long reigns of the Reform Party, I do not know how, hardly directly on their order, such'supplies'. They were happy to pay for the state's money every time the Reform Party had an idea, to praise it: 'Yeah, right, the government! All the ideas you're proposing are exactly what you need to do. " This echo continues until now. The illusion of a thin country is similarly created by the fact that we have a large number of public activities renamed non-state activities. There are quite a few who have drawn attention to this, but these are the limits. Now, in various other areas, we should also somehow divide into a reasonable range of things that different people in different contexts incorporate into this failed general term 'civil society'. I would like to conclude by saying that with such a broad and imprecise concept, we will not get anywhere. If we want to move on sensibly in this area, we need to divide it into sensible parts, treat them equal and unequal, so we can somehow proceed. Otherwise, it will remain one of ours, I would say, an average citizen, not an interesting subject, which everyone, when they hear, will lock their ears because this crap has already been heard to annoying extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U112	Thank you. Next, please, Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U113	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak again and there was no report, but I held it here for three hours, and I would still like to mediate my impressions a little bit. I have no idea what Jüri Adams was finally experiencing his historical grudge about, why he spoke about the Reform Party and despised some part of civil society in that way. I really don't have the slightest idea. I do not think that we should at all give civil society views. What Adams started with was a quote from Marx and Engels: 'One ghost goes around... '. In my opinion, this somewhat enlightened the problem that sometimes exists in this Chamber when a young person comes here for the first time, and often for the last time, is trying to give Parliament instructions. In fact, this is the kind of cooperation we need in some ways. I'd like to quote him again. He said that he said that civil society was nothing separate from citizens, society. It's definitely not a ghost, George. I very much agree with that. But from this tone it will sound like Parliament is something separate, who should be reminded of a mission in most reports, a sense of responsibility that it itself does not seem to know anything about. I don't think there's a single person in this room who doesn't know what his mission is. It is often impossible to carry out this mission, but this kind of reminder is redundant. I think it is also unfair to separate civil society from Parliament and even from political parties. I believe that there is no such Member of Parliament today, it also came out slowly, who would not participate anywhere in the association. Many have led them. And, to sum up, there should also be no contempt for their political parties as activities outside civil society in any way. However, we are also private initiatives. How much we are independent of governments is a question of our own. We're very intertwined. But we should not despise ourselves as students or students who listen and praise. I think our debate could be like this next time that we get some sort of statistical knowledge, we get some insight into the problems of cooperation. In my opinion, the fact that NGOs are not involved in civil society, such as legislation, is a clear exaggeration. I think it's already a complete routine, an automated system. And I really wanted to know where it was going. I'm sure there are logs. There is certainly a need to exchange examples. There is certainly a need for an overview of civil society. Not only should we talk about how much money somebody gets, 14%, but about how associations of very different meanings are distributed at all. Debate on that would be something where we could get new ideas. This mandatory annual debate could, in my opinion, next time be more focused on cooperation, more on real phenomena and less on assessments in your-our-form. We are all part of civil society, we are all citizens. People who come into politics are certainly not less in a sense of mission than most citizens who participate in civil society through associations. And we, too, are more involved in civil society through associations than citizens in general. Get back to work next time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-28_U114	Thank you. Any more requests? No, it's not. I will conclude on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, Our trial today is over. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 12.47 p.m.
