ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the second working week of the VI session. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U2	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present and introduce to you the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre'. This proposal has been made by the Environment Committee on the basis of § 56 of the Environmental Charges Act. The decision has two points: firstly, to recall Kalle Muuli from the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre and secondly, to appoint Andres Metsoja, member of the Supervisory Board of the Environmental Investment Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U3	Heili Tõnisson on behalf of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U4	Mr. Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching two draft laws today. First, the draft law amending the Securities Market Act and related amendments to other laws. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Finance Toomas Tõniste in the proceedings of the draft law. Secondly, the draft law amending the Law on Competition. Jaak Aab, Minister of Public Administration, represents the Government of the Republic in processing this bill in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U5	I have adopted three drafts on behalf of the Bureau. We will continue to deal with them on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! The assembly has 87 members of the Riigikogu. Now this week's agenda. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U6	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I have a question about the Thursday agenda. We have a crucial debate on a national issue where there is a debate without questions. There's no way to ask a waitress any questions from the material that came to us. How can we have a debate if the ambassadors cannot ask questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U7	The debate is still taking place. The discussion of a significant national issue on a proposal from a political group will take place on the basis of a plan proposed by the political group. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U8	Thank you. You said that the debate was still taking place. What can this debate be if the questions cannot be asked? Are we, members of the Riigikogu, then given the right to discuss these questions, I don't know, in the hallway or somewhere else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U9	The debate is taking place in this Chamber. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U10	I understand that it was the initiator's proposal that no questions be asked to one of the rapporteurs, but ultimately it is up to the Riigikogu board to decide how to organise the debate. Do you not think that the Board of the Riigikogu should give the MPs the opportunity to ask the rapporteurs questions when dealing with a crucial national question or to tell the initiator to find a waitress who suffers from asking questions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U11	In the opinion of the Riigikogu management board, an important national issue can be discussed in the light of the group's proposal as the group wishes. Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Should we perhaps order a semiotic analysis of the word 'debate'? It seems to me that your understanding of the debate is that one person is talking and the others are listening. Our view is that the debate still means discussion between the various parties. And we see that the members of the Riigikogu have now been deprived of this right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U13	The question itself is interesting, but it is not about the agenda. Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U14	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. You answered the previous question that the Board of the Riigikogu will take this request into account when examining the proposal of the political group. Does this mean that the Riigikogu has no opportunity or right to make corrections to the proposal in order to bring the item into line with the objective of the debate? This is, however, a matter of national importance, which is not just a question, but a matter of national importance. If the Board of the Riigikogu considered it appropriate to adjust this plan, could it do so? Don't you have that chance?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U15	Yeah, there's no way. Any other questions? Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U16	Thank you. I have been behind me for so many years that I remember from childhood how things went in another country that had occupied Estonia. It was really like someone came to the Saxon remote and gave a long speech. Everyone unanimously approved it, which was also called debate and popular approval and democracy. Have we now come to a similar situation? Members of the Riigikogu no longer have the right to ask; the Riigikogu has simply become some kind of object?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U17	This issue is not about the agenda either. Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Please say, for the second time when the Group proposes that no one can ask questions during the debate on a matter of national importance, you would agree with this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U19	There's nothing we can do about it. We have to agree. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the agenda for the second working week of the VI plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 68 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of approving the agenda, with 7 abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U20	According to the approved agenda, we are the first to plan an inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Igor Gräzin, Mart Helme, Kalle Laanet, Johannes Kert, Deniss Borodich, Madis Milling and Henn Põlluaas. The President shall be forced to take a break until the date of arrival of the addressee of the enquiry. There's nothing to do, break five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U21	Dear Riigikogu, the intermission is over. An inquiry by Igor Gräzin, Mart Helme, Kalle Laanet, Johannes Kert, Deniss Borodich, Madis Milling and Henn Põlluaas. On behalf of the heirs, Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U22	All right! First of all, thank you for agreeing to respond a week later. Sorry about that! It's my fault. Honourable Riigikogu! The following was the reason for today's inquiry. On 3 May including 3 May, the Government of the Republic of Estonia held a meeting after leaving the territory of the Republic of Estonia. The government was in a cooperative composition, not in Estonia, but in Brussels. Since Estonia exercises power as three branches of power, one of which is government power, this means that the power of the Estonian state was incomplete that day. I would like to stress that it was not a single minister that left the country, but a government as a whole and a decision-making process. In part, it was a security risk. A member of the government who was left behind in Estonia could not be active either legally or otherwise, because he was not physically in the best shape at the time, fortunately under pleasant circumstances. The government, however, was decisive and abroad. The constitutional aspect is also at stake here. According to the declaration of sovereignty of the Republic of Estonia, sovereignty means the highest power over its territory. But what if one of the three powers has gone away? According to a classic definition, a government which, although recognised, is not on its own territory is exiled. As was the de jure government of the Republic of Estonia during the Soviet occupation, the Polish government in London during the Second World War, etc. The law says: 'The Government of the Republic is located in Tallinn. 'The government is working in its own location. The Prime Minister may also convene the cabinet elsewhere, but I stress that according to the declaration of sovereignty, this 'other' can only be on the sovereign territory of Estonia. The law does not allow the government, as a collegial body, to make decisions in a place that is not in Estonia. Purely legal, it does not matter whether the government held its sitting in Brussels, Rio de Janeiro or Moscow. The existence of an external factor is important. It is all the more topical that, in recent times, there has been a tightening of relations between the European Union and the institutions of its Member States. This is demonstrated by heated debates in Brussels and, on the other hand, imagine Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Austria and Even between Britain, who has fought out a respectful attitude. We understand that this constitutional and fundamental question comes out of the competence of the Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister will certainly be able to answer the question of what they were thinking when this constitutionally questionable journey was made. Were there any decisions or agreements in Brussels that were not dared to be made at home? What do we know about these arrangements? I would point out that even on such a primitive issue as Rail Baltic, the paperwork is still not being sent. And civil society from Public Rail Baltic is not even taken up by Rail Baltic bosses. We ask, for what reasons and in which capital the government intends to hold meetings in the future if it does not want to do so in Estonia. Why was there no meeting of the Government of the Republic with the group's officials in the capital of Estonia? The European Commission was met, but the European Commission has just as long a road to Tallinn as we have to go to the European Commission. By the way, there is one important difference: the European Commission is not strictly taking any kind of institution at all, it is not a parliament, it is not a government, it is just a set of people, a sympathetic group. Come here, the doors are open! We must insist that we are at a stage where we are looking for theoretical security errors in the chip card. Those are theories! The government of the Republic of Estonia outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia, however, was a security risk, which was not theoretical but already realised. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U23	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U24	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I apologise to the President of the Riigikogu and to the members of the Riigikogu for having to take a five-minute break for me. I am guilty, and I will begin as Mr Gräzing did: thank you. It is important to mention that I think it shows good cooperation between a member of the Riigikogu and a member of the government, as well as good cooperation between the Riigikogu and the government. Indeed, Mr Gräzin, a member of the Riigikogu, asked that this question be postponed if possible, because he is not in this Chamber at the prescribed time. So we were talking about the last time. And, of course, it is always a pleasure to receive such a request, all the more so because it is a very important question. To make it easier for others to observe the question, I will do so, if you will agree, that I will first read the questions and then answer them. So, first question: "Did the Government of the Republic understand the contradiction of its activities with the principle of the Estonian summer migration? ' Ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors have mistakenly argued that the meeting of the government held in Brussels on 3 May 2017 was contrary to the principle of the summer migration of the Republic of Estonia. I assure you from this speech chair of the Riigikogu, good heirs, that the meeting of the Government of the Republic on 3 May in Brussels was held in accordance with the Constitution, the Government of the Republic Act and also the Government of the Republic Reglement, or current legislation. The Chancellor of Justice reached the same conclusion in his position of 13 June. Under the Constitution, legislation that is subordinate to it does not preclude the government from gathering outside the Republic of Estonia, and therefore there is no reason to consider the government meeting outside Estonia to be unacceptable in any way. Pursuant to § 16 (3) of the Government Act, a meeting of the Government is held at the seat of the Government of the Republic, but may also take place elsewhere in the rules. According to the government regulations, government meetings are held as a general rule, as the representative of the heirs has just read out, at the Stenbock House in Tallinn, but the time and place of the meeting may be changed by the Prime Minister's decision. Legislation does not provide that a meeting of the government can take place only on the territory of Estonia. The rule also allows for a government meeting to be conducted by means of communication, and in today's technical possibilities, such a solution is sometimes reasonable. If necessary, this has been done and will probably be done in the future. It does not matter where the members of the government are physically present at the meeting by means of communication. This government meeting was held in Brussels, which is very important! get to the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Estonia to the European Union. It is like an embassy within the jurisdiction of Estonia, where Estonian laws and legal space apply. Question 2: 'On what basis and with whose permission the ruling branch of sovereign Estonia was removed from the Estonian territory, de facto out of the control of the Estonian Parliament? ' I assure you, honourable members of the Riigikogu, including good heirs, that the government was not out of parliamentary control in any way. Meetings of the Government of the Republic shall take place without the participation of Members and the use of constitutional parliamentary control mechanisms shall not be affected by the place where the government sitting takes place. In essence, the Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia has reached the same position on this issue. I recall that the meeting of the Government of the Republic is a form of government work governed by the Government of the Republic Act and Regulation cited above. Pursuant to § 16 (1) of the Government Act, the Government decides on matters falling within its competence at the hearing. Pursuant to § 93 of the Constitution, the Government is represented and managed by the Prime Minister. According to the government regulations, the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister shall convene the meeting of the Government and decide where and when the meeting will take place. According to the Act of the Government of the Republic, the government has its seat in Tallinn and, as a general rule, its meetings are held in the seat of the Government of the Republic as a very specific general rule, but in the cases referred to in the Rules, the meeting may also take place elsewhere. Thus, on the basis of the current Constitution and other legislation, the Prime Minister has the right to decide on the seat of a meeting of the Government. The third question: 'Where did this idea come from itself? Who gave it, who gave it their consent, etc.? ' The idea of an outing session is quite old and has been used by various prime ministers over the years. The Outgoing Session, as also referred to by the term 'outgoing', is a sitting which takes place outside the Government Chamber and which seeks to draw the public's attention to an important event or place. For example, on November 11th, 2008, the government meeting took place in Tartu, in the town hall of Tartu in the building of Town Hall Square 14 and this was due to the fact that over 90 years ago the temporary government resided there. In 2010 the government's departure session was held again in Tartu, but this time in the building of the Supreme Court in Toomemägi, where the government held its own sitting in connection with the 90th anniversary of the first sitting of the Supreme Court. Last year, 2016 the government's departure sessions took place in Piusa Kordon and Narva, University of Tartu College. The idea that a government meeting could take place during the government's visit to Brussels must be given credit came from the previous head of government. When I took office as Prime Minister, I also found, as did Taavi Rõivas, that there should also be a government meeting during a visit to Brussels. In this particular case, the meeting in Brussels was also intended to draw the public's attention to the forthcoming Estonian Presidency. The idea of outdoor sessions is popular and is also used in other countries. If you allow me to mention the honourable members of the Riigikogu, in Finland, for example, during the summer period, government sessions take place in Kultaranta, where the Finnish President's summer residence is located. In 2009, a joint meeting of the Finnish and Swedish Governments, for example, was held there, as we know. The German Government also organises field visits, and Germany and France organise a joint government meeting each year, which takes place either in Germany or in France. Question 4: "Does the government concede that decisions taken in an unsovereign way (i.e. in foreign territory) (and promises made, agreements concluded) do not have the strength in the territory of the sovereign Republic of Estonia? ' Neither as Prime Minister nor as head of government will I admit it. The reasons, honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu, are already mentioned to you. So we are talking about this, and I repeat, on 3 May 2017, the session was held in accordance with all of us, I stress everyone! be governed by the legislation in force in Estonia. A meeting of the Government was convened on the basis of the procedure laid down in the legislation. A quorum was necessary to hold a government meeting and the date and place of the government meeting was in accordance with the law in force. The decisions taken at this year's meeting on 3 May are in accordance with current law and are therefore legitimate. Question 5: "Can you make sure that none of the materials concerning your visit prove to be secret again? 'The documents relating to the visit of the Government of the Republic to Brussels are the same as all the other documents used in the work of the Government on a daily basis. The materials of the government meeting held in Brussels, as well as the materials of all other government meetings, are basically public documents, but of course there are also those subject to restrictions on access under the Public Information Act. Examples include documents containing personal data, etc. The government meeting in Brussels did not change the regime of access to documents in any way. Question 6: Do you consider it an abuse of power when the 'Jüri Government' ministers called for their own use by Nordica, a company owned by a state subsidiary, forcing it to cancel a regular and planned trip from Stockholm? ' I am actually deeply sorry that such words are being cast in this honourable Riigikogu plenary, in the Riigikogu Hall. I assure you that neither the Prime Minister nor the Ministers have called any aircraft for their own use. As far as I am aware, Mr Uibo, the marketing and communication manager of Nordica, has said that it is not necessary to look for a so-called 'classical' reason or for the telephone rights of members of the government, which do not exist, for the decision to refer the Stockholm plane to Brussels this evening. I have no reason to doubt Mr Uibo's words that Nordica was heading for the Stockholm plane to Brussels because 84 people were waiting there and 19 in Stockholm. So there were four times as many passengers waiting for a flight in Brussels as in Stockholm. Thank you very much to the inquisitors for this serious questioning! I have answered your questions, and if you have any further questions, I am certainly willing to answer them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U25	Questions for the Prime Minister. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! We all like to think that nothing's gonna happen to us, but still. Do you not think that the mere fact that the entire government of the Republic of Estonia in corpore is in one plane at one point in time is in itself a security risk? We are reminding here, even in Smolensk, of the disaster with a Polish plane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U27	Thank you for that question. In short, I say yes, I do. But this time, the members of the government went to Brussels and returned from Brussels at least two or three or, as your group partner says, even on four different flights. There was no such dangerous situation. As we know, there are 15 members in the government, one wasn't with us, but 14 members were on different planes. It was followed very closely as the State Chancellery prepared this whole session. I remember there was a question of who would show up on the morning of that day and who, last night, lunch, or morning. Of course, this aspect must always be noted, which you have asked about, it is important. But this time, there was no risk of going there or getting out of there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U28	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U29	Good Prime Minister! I admit I feel much calmer when I know that my government is in my country and is in this territory. Although, of course, the Minister of Finance is alarmed by his statements all the time, even without coming here. But okay. Here is the question of the declaration of sovereignty, which has not been referred to by the Chancellor of Justice or anyone else. However, the declaration of sovereignty says that the Republic of Estonia is valid on the territory of Estonia. Does this principle, which is also superior to government regulations, etc., no longer apply? Is it now that we, the people, the government, the parliament and all of us here in Estonia, have abandoned or renounced the principle of territoriality? Is this important piece of paper in Estonian history now invalid?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U30	Thank you, Mr. Asker! On the contrary, it is a very important document. Why do you even see the danger? Don't look at that danger! I'm sorry to say this, but I think it's lovely to note that. The letter with your signature also drew such a smiling face. Mr Gräzin, you have always been such a good, positive, smiling politician of the Republic of Estonia, a member of the Riigikogu. I don't think there's a cloud of concern out there right now. And I deliberately emphasized that where this government hearing was held was of great significance. I think it should ease your heartache a lot and hopefully even take it down completely. I repeat this again: the meeting of the government was held at the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Estonia to the European Union in Brussels, and it is, like embassies, a territory under the jurisdiction of Estonia. So there's nothing to be afraid of. But I'm glad you asked. I find such an understanding discussion, which is currently taking place, very healing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U31	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U32	Prime Minister! My question is motivated by this whole question. We were talking here about the operation of a government outside the country's territory. It is clear that one can imagine situations where the government is forced to operate outside the territory of Estonia and this can be very important for legal continuity. History shows that we didn't do very well last time. The question is as much as you can comment on whether the government has prepared such well-thought-out scenarios, perhaps even organized exercises for such an occasion when the government or part of the government has to leave. Is it somehow thought through and played through?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U33	Thank you for that question. I very much hope that this question will never have to come to the table at any time. I agree that the question is rather theoretical. And the answer is very short: all governments, as far as I know, have thought, to a lesser or greater extent, that if such a theoretical situation arises, how will it be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U34	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! After all, our ministers go to Brussels every month in their Council to discuss their subject matter. In this respect, I have such a question. I fully understand that the government is conducting outing sessions in Narva or Valga or Pärnu or why not in some smaller place. This is understandable, the government shows itself to our people and sees what is happening on the ground. What exactly was the reason that the government had to go to Brussels for the meeting? Did it have any symbolic meaning, some practical meaning, or was it just diplomatic tourism? Can you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U36	Thank you. I'll explain it to you, of course. First of all, what you started: that the government can hold its meetings in different places in Estonia. I think that this is very reasonable and that this practice must be maintained in any case. However, certain rules of the game apply during the Presidency of the European Union. The country that will take over the Presidency of the European Union will meet with the European Commission at the same time. Mr Gräzin very vividly described it. I certainly do not agree with this description if, on behalf of the government at all, the member of the Riigikogu can be told in this way, but this description is given here. But there were actually a number of things in mind. The main thing was that there was a meeting of the Government of the Republic with the members of the European Commission, giving an overview of our state of preparation. At the beginning of May, we could talk about the state of Estonia's preparations for the Presidency. There were quite a number of bilateral meetings with ministers and representatives of the relevant field in the Commission. In addition, some government members gave a press conference and a meeting of the Government of the Republic took place. But the main thing was the meeting with the Commission. There's a questioner here who said, "Why don't they come here?" They also come here and the meeting was actually held in Estonia. This was at the end of June just before the beginning of our Presidency. This is the practice, the set of rules that are linked to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U37	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You have improved all the questions and doubts that government meetings may not be held outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. Does the Government of the Republic plan to hold another working session outside the territory of Estonia? I'm not thinking of Brussels. Do you have any other fun ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U39	Thank you. There are currently no serious ideas on the table where a meeting could be held outside the territory of the Republic of Estonia. However, if we think a little about our country's 100-year anniversary, perhaps it could have something to do with the whole of the Baltic States or with Finland. After all, Finland holds its 100-year anniversary this year. But, yes, there are no specific ideas in which the government of the Republic could go to a meeting on the table. At the same time, I think that in 2018, when the Presidency is over, the government will seriously aim to hold a session outside the house of Stenbock, but on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. And by the territory of the Republic of Estonia, I do not mean some of our embassy or other representation of Estonia, but 45,000 square kilometres of our country. This idea could be considered seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U40	The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of Igor Gräzin's heirs, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U41	Thanks for the answers. Some things became clearer, and I think it is very good that we negotiated this. But I want to clarify one thing. It was a question that embarrassed the Prime Minister. I mean, the question is that the plane was called out and whether it was good or not, the state aircraft was used, etc. I would like to assure you that I did not even think of such an idea. The idea of the government whistling over the plane came from the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, whom I called on a completely different issue. That's right, changing the route. I was actually wondering if the men on the flight to Stockholm and Brussels had docking Jeppesen landing cards. We all know that Jeppesen is such a big one with small squares and is correspondented to NOTAM. As Brussels is not known to be an alternate airport in Stockholm, I, as a citizen, wondered whether the government was subject to a higher flight risk. I was wondering if it was meant as an alternate. And now instead of telling me what I learned from Rein Porro a week later, namely that they now have Jeppesen's cards of much larger scale, instead of telling me this, the Vice Chancellor said: 'Your opinion that this is government corruption and so on is not true. ' It wouldn't have occurred to me, but it was the first reaction of the Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that this was a thin spot. So the idea comes from me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U42	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U43	Mr. Chairman! Prime Minister! Colleagues! I'm a very obedient husband, and a woman keeps telling me that don't be evil, don't go there and call someone names. Smile and say beautiful things! That's the only reason I came here. There's no great art to prove that two times two is a five-way I can sometimes show you, that's a trivial problem. But to argue that if there is a lynx in the zoo at the time of repair and repair, it will be placed somewhere in the lynx, on which it is written 'Jäälaru', from then on it will no longer be a lynx, it is not known who, because the polar bear it is definitely not, it is still a very high flight. Or if they try to prove that if I put the refrigerator in the hallway, if it doesn't stand in the kitchen, it turns into a wardrobe and isn't suitable for keeping food there, or that if you drive a Volvo from Sweden to Germany, it turns into an Opel, it's a big art, it smells like a Nobel Prize! I don't know what discipline, probably in medicine, but, well, congratulations and compliments! And as for whether such a trip is generally secure or not, if a drunken member of the government, such as the Minister of Defence, does not climb to teach the airmen how to fly and where they have to land, then everything is perfectly safe. The comparison with the flight that once ended sadly near Smolensk is not correct. But in any case, I don't agree with those colleagues who told me a week ago about this question, that if there's nothing a male cat can do, then he... Well, that's on their conscience, what else they said. I'm not gonna tell you what he's gonna do if he doesn't have anything to do. I don't agree with that. It's a very novel, very fresh idea in political science that could be developed. Get back to work, Mr Gräzin, and everyone who signed this question with him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U44	The members of the Riigikogu have no further wish for negotiation. Neither does the Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U45	An inquiry by Eerik-Niles Kross, Taavi Rõivas, Kalle Laanet, Hanno Pevkur, Urmas Kruuse, Maris Lauri and Liina Kersna. On behalf of the heirs, Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U46	Good Chairman! Prime Minister! Seven reform party members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry. We presented this, if I am not mistaken, even before the government attended this famous meeting in Brussels. So it's been a long time, and sometimes maybe something has happened. This is the title of the inquiry: 'Team of Estonia and the course of Estonian foreign economic policy'. It sets out a number of questions: So, of course, the Prime Minister can answer yes very simply, but in fact, our hope is to get answers more about what the government has done, not about what he has not done, because what he has not done, we know for ourselves. Now more specifically. On 16 July 2015, the previous government approved the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to establish the so-called Estonian network, which was formulated as follows: 'To boost export and bring investments into Estonia, a global Estonian network will be developed, including Estonian foreign representatives, honorary business ambassadors, countrymen living and working abroad, Estonian friends and their associations. ' Similarly, on 10 December 2015, the government approved the concept of a cooperation platform in support of the foreign economy, the so-called Team Estonia, which was aimed at supporting more than ever the entry of Estonian companies into new markets and attracting foreign investment into Estonia. The creation of Team Estonia was also a goal in the previous coalition agreement. There is no idea of Team Estonia in the current coalition agreement, at least it is not in the version that is available online. The Estonian network is not being developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, the government has also dissolved the economic growth working group set up by the previous government, led by Erkki Raasuke. The Chairman of the Economic Commission for Economic Affairs spoke about Team Estonia during the visit of entrepreneurs and politicians in Moscow, where he said that this is now Team Estonia together politicians and entrepreneurs. In the meantime, the state company EVR Cargo has also started to run a railway business in Russia and Estonia has invested in the company we have created and registered in Russia, so we should at least start paying taxes to Russia. Such trends can be seen. In the meantime, we have had the honour of listening to the Human Development Report in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. The main problem then was that one of Estonia's strategic tasks is to include a very large number of countrymen living abroad and try to bring them back to Estonia. There are now over 200,000 of them in the west. All these initiatives, which somehow involve them in Estonian networks, Team Estonia etc, are obviously in Estonia's strategic interests. So we are mainly interested in why the government has abandoned these initiatives of the previous government. If the government has simply renamed them and continues to do so, it is great, but I would like to hear basically what the government is doing, not what it is not doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U47	The inquiry is answered by Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U48	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs, thank you for asking! If you don't mind, I'll make a few remarks for the introduction. The inquiry tells us that the Government of the Republic has dissolved the economic growth working group set up by the government of Taavi Rõivas, led by Erkki Raasuke. This was also mentioned here in the Riigikogu Chair by the representative of the heirs. That's not true. Once one working group has completed its work and submitted a final report, a phase has come to an end and input has been received for further work and for the next steps, from this work, from this analysis, from this overview. I think it is necessary to say now that this working group was not dissolved. Now a few general words about Team Estonia. After I had the honour of taking up this position where I am now, I have held, I think, two or three meetings on Team Estonia and on what it should be and whether it has any, I don't know, structure or something like that. It has to be admitted that people think of Team Estonia very, very differently. You have given an example here, the understanding of the Economic Commission, but some people think of Team Estonia quite differently. I would certainly like to acknowledge Liisa Oviir, who was one of the first members of the Riigikogu to come to me with a question on how to proceed with this subject. These were an introduction to some of the general remarks that I wanted to make. Now I'm going to get answers. An inquiry was submitted on 10 May 2017 about the course of team Estonia and Estonia's foreign economic policy. This was presented by Mr Kross, Mr Rõivas, Mrs Lauri, Mr Laane, Mr Kruuse and Mrs Kersna. I'll start, if you'll excuse me, by answering this question with a little more background description, and then I'll answer your questions. The success of the Estonian economy depends to a great extent on Estonia's success in foreign markets and certainly on our success in realising export capacity and attracting foreign investments here. The small size of the Estonian economy forces us to be as open to the world as possible. To continue to grow, Estonia must export goods and services with a higher added value than the goods exported to date. Fortunately, Estonia's exports are regaining some growth as our main export markets recover from the crisis a decade ago. However, there has been no dramatic improvement in the added value of exports, so it is important to monitor our competitiveness. In order to improve competitiveness, we must certainly increase investment in capital and intellectual property-intensive businesses. The small size of Estonia forces us to make choices and specialize in areas of sufficient competence to be as competitive as possible on the international market. There is also a need to increase investment in product development, including R &amp; D. Let me stress this once again: certainly also in research and development. The state can be a supporting force here. The ability to create additional added value will provide Estonia with rapid and sustainable economic growth. This requires a strong level of investment in the economy. The ability to successfully integrate different export markets and attract additional foreign capital will provide additional impetus to economic growth. The growth strategy up to 2020 aims to increase Estonia's exports and the number of exporters, but let us face it. We are lagging behind the objectives set out in the growth strategy. The most important of these is to increase productivity per employee to 80% of the European Union average. Increasing export capacity will play a crucial role in achieving this objective. In order to increase the capacity of Estonian exporting companies, the state has various programmes financed from the European Union's Structural Funds as well as from the state budget. However, state support and marketing work in export target markets could be much more effective. This last shortage is considered by the exporting companies themselves to be one of the biggest obstacles to the growth of exports. In order to increase Estonia's export capacity and attract foreign investments here, it is necessary to update the support structures and organisation of Estonian business diplomacy. In order to promote business interests in foreign markets, cooperation between different organisations needs to be increased. This does not require more work than has been done to date, but, I think, more targeted and consistent work. The Estonian economy has reached a stage of development where the industrial sector needs capital and research-intensive investments, as the rapid rise in labour prices makes Estonia no longer competitive in labour-intensive production internationally. To achieve this, I say that, according to the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic, the Coordination Council for the Development of the External Economy is being launched and the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology is developing a strategy to improve business diplomacy. That's what the questioners probably meant by Team Estonia. Let's get to the questions. The first question: 'Is Team Estonia to be understood during your reign as a team of the Government of the Republic to develop economic relations with Russia? ' Certainly there is no ironic undertone on this issue, my first comment is. However, I must admit that, in my opinion, there is, in fact, a lot of unnecessary irony in this wording. Let me answer you from a slightly different angle. A few weeks ago, I came from a work visit from the United States, where I was accompanied by an Estonian business delegation. It was an interesting and busy visit, where we met with representatives of several companies and research and educational institutions. This visit certainly gave me a firm conviction that our companies could export much more to the market there. I am also convinced that there are more foreign markets to which Estonian companies could export more. The Team Estonia you mentioned must deal with, I think, with all the markets to which we have the capacity to export effectively. Exports have been the basis for Estonia's economic success, and a small open economy cannot grow in a different way than by means of exports. The second question: Has the development of Team Estonia been abandoned with its original objectives? If it's been abandoned, why? ' Contributing to the export of Estonian companies and encouraging new investments are part of the priorities of the programme of action of the Government of the Republic. In the spring, we formed a government commission for economic development consisting of members of the Government of the Republic. This committee is chaired by the Prime Minister and is composed of the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, the Minister for Education and Science, the Minister for Justice, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Health and Labour and, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is a format in which we address growth-related issues. A meeting has now taken place and the following will take place at the end of September. Due to the Presidency, it is, I must admit, sometimes maybe a little difficult to find time, but we will certainly get over it and the Commission's work is gaining momentum. One important aspect is that the Committee on Coordination for the Development of the External Economy is accountable to the Committee on Government of Economic Development. This means that the representatives of the Coordination Council will regularly go to the Committee on Economic Development to give an overview and talk about our steps, whether they are progress or obstacles to development. It is important to organise work in such a way that the representative of the Coordination Council for the Development of the External Economy has the opportunity, where appropriate, to cooperate effectively with the highest level of decision-making at government level. This link has unfortunately been missing so far and has hindered effective coordination. It should be noted that, after encouraging foreign investments, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications implements a support measure for a large investor, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and EAS. External visits and events will be jointly planned to provide the best support for companies to increase exports. Question 3: 'Has the development of the Estonian network been abandoned and why? ' It has not been abandoned either. The Global Estonian Network programme is implemented by EAS, whose website you can find all the necessary information about it. Question 4: "Is the abandonment of initiatives to develop Estonian business and export capacity really overcoming the stagnation that you have promised? ' Thank you, of course, for this substantive issue. Initiatives to develop entrepreneurship and export capacity have also not been abandoned. The Estonian economy grew considerably in the first half of this year. This increase was significantly faster than what we saw in previous years. This growth has exceeded, let us be honest, perhaps the most optimistic expectations of all of us. Certainly, when looking at the economic situation and growth figures in Estonia, there is no way to say that it is a stagnation. Over several years, we see that Estonia's productivity is on the rise again and investments are on the rise, which is certainly a positive development. I will reiterate a number of specific initiatives and measures taken by the government and endeavoured to support our economy as much as possible. Do not understand, honourable heirs and members of the Riigikogu, as if I were to write economic growth into the account of a government or minister or prime minister. No way! This has been the work of Estonian companies and Estonian people and certainly the work of several Riigikogus, governments and members of government. But what are the things that the government believes can support the Estonian economy now? Firstly, an entrepreneur account aimed at creating a simpler and more favourable form of business that allows any unreported business to be carried out. Secondly, and this is certainly very important, a reduction in bureaucracy, especially when it comes to communicating with the country. We have created an opportunity to automate wage and labour reporting. The data can be transmitted directly in accounting software. Third, the income tax on profits distributed each year falls to 14%, and the average of the three previous years in Estonia is taxed at a lower rate. Fourthly, smaller companies are exempted from VAT. Companies with an annual turnover not exceeding EUR 40000 will not have to pay VAT in the future. So far, this threshold was EUR 16000. Fifthly, we allow the employer to invest in the health of workers. The costs incurred by the employer to promote the health of the employee up to EUR 100 per quarter will not be considered as a special advantage in the future. Sixthly, workers' accommodation and transport are no longer subject to special incentives. The employer may cover the accommodation and transport costs of workers living far away, exempt from tax, if this is necessary for the company. Seventh, we ease the taxation of participation options. Eighthly, we are making investments that improve the economic environment, whether it be investments in roads, railways or faster internet connections. Moreover, our people and businesses are also delighted that we changed the previous government's decision to raise VAT on accommodation establishments this year, but also the increase in excise duty on diesel, special fuel oil and light fuel oil planned for 2018. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U49	Questions for the Prime Minister. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U50	Honourable President! Honorable Prime Minister! My question does not come from the text of the inquiry as much as from your own introduction. I was beginning to wonder what you would consider to be the most important and important of the conclusions of this group that completed the work of Erkki Raasuke, and what you have learned the most from it. I do not expect a report, but tell me some of the things that are most at your heart from the conclusions of this working group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U51	It is clear that, in such reports, we see what businesses have said very strongly. One example is the reduction of red tape. Productivity growth, as I said, is certainly an input to the economic development committee that has now been set up. There's nothing to do when something in life ends, it can't be artificially extended. As far as I know, there were dozens of very respected people in the working group. The fact that Taavi Clothes once thought it was necessary, I think, was very correct. It certainly provided input for the following decisions, the following analyses, to take the next steps. The Scientific and Development Council certainly has a lot to take over from there, and there is a lot to take over from the export aspect, so it is difficult to bring out one or two things. I understand that the people of Estonia always want to know what these one-two-three steps are, but I do not think that this work has definitely gone down water or run down sidelines, on the contrary, but we must move on from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U52	Eerik-Niles Kross, please! I'm sorry, but something's wrong now. People's Ambassador Kruuse, please, take a moment of your head... People's ambassadors have a light on, but it's very difficult for me to hear questions here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U53	Can't you hear me?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U54	I can't hear you. It's like the microphone isn't working. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U55	I'd like 30 seconds of extra time. As regards the dissolution or cessation of the Erkki Raasuke group or the abandonment of its services, this is, of course, a semantic issue. I reviewed that the papers at the time reflected it uniformly as a disbanding of the working group, but I accept that this working group was replaced by a ministerial working group. So it was stated in the then government press release that a ministerial working group was set up to replace Mr Raasukes's working group, chaired by the Prime Minister. I want to come to the global Estonian network. You said it would work, it would be handled by EAS, and it could be viewed on the EAS website. On 16 July there was a debate in the government office where the concept of a global Estonian network was approved. It has been viewed there, however, much wider than the areas of EAS, there is a cultural field, a policy area, a media area, business diplomacy. This task has been assigned to the State Department. Does it still have to be understood that some part of it has been transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to EAS and the rest is not dealt with? Or what exactly has it become?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U56	Thank you. I'm starting with the fact that I don't know if you want to deliberately disinformation society. Once again, when some work is finished, nothing is sent out, no one's favors are given up, but this work is the basis for the next steps. Mr. Kross, I've had about ten months to be a member of the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic. I quite often at the beginning and mid of the year (longer at the beginning of the year) found myself wondering whether a working group with such a structure or structure or a government committee would not be needed in the economic field, in the area of economic development. I was talking about coordination. We can all, if we are ministers or prime ministers, say that coordination is very well, everything works perfectly. However, we can see in the country that we can certainly do better. One thing is coordination between institutions, between ministries, so that everyone is in one information room and acts for one purpose. Secondly, I will return to the Security Commission of the Government of the Republic for a moment. This is not a Commission that meets once every two weeks and then thinks about what will be decided. People working on this committee all the time, the State Chancellery prepares the material, coordinates the work between institutions, ministries. I thought it was missing. I am sincerely pleased that the government decided in spring that we would form a committee of government members for economic development. It was formed not only to come together, but also to ensure that the agency that supports this Commission actually would work every day to bring these problems to the table and find common ground. As I said, this job is gaining momentum, and I sincerely believe in it. So this parallel, that there were entrepreneurs and now there are ministers, has been taken from the air. I don't even think there's an equal sign here. It's on the one hand. On the other hand, the whole topic and the discussion in the cabinet, of course, has had the direction that the more we can provide support from the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry, the better. Often, I feel that these economic issues have somehow been overlooked. I do not know if there has been a lack of time or an unwillingness, but it has been assumed that it is dealt with by EAS and is dealt with by another economic institution, such as the Development Fund. It's not like that! I therefore think that the same Committee on Economic Development, where, in the very highest level of government, really can give its support very strongly in order to achieve this objective, is important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U57	Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U58	Good President! Good Prime Minister! Perhaps the reason for the criticism is that the public simply does not know all this. That is why I am asking what has been your government's greatest success story in helping our companies to access foreign markets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U59	Thank you. In answering such a question, there is always the risk that the Prime Minister will present economic growth to the success of this government. That was also why I told you that do not get the wrong idea, because I think that all governments, ministries and Riigikogu have done quite a lot to make our economic growth more than 2%. I think we need to focus on the fact that a minister or a member of the government, including the Prime Minister, must do everything to help our companies in international markets. It's one of the prime minister's functions. I didn't just bring in my visit to the United States. I had a meeting in the state of Indiana with a company in Estonia and the United States of America specifically and with a large number of entrepreneurs in San Francisco and Los Angeles, for example. This is one of the ways in which we can contribute a little. Secondly, we did not just call it the Commission's Committee on Government of Economic Development. The problem is how we can tell our story and support our companies outside Estonia, how we can support the export of our companies. The current government has taken very concrete steps to contribute to the development of the Estonian economy and Estonian entrepreneurship. In response to the inquiry, I told you about research and development, I told you about the concrete steps the government has taken to make sure that the Estonian company would pass through international markets and be successful there, whether it was a micro-level company or a larger company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U60	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned in your speech that the Estonian economy is doing well because our foreign partners are doing well. Although you also referred to the original text of the inquiry as ironic, I ask you what benefits you expect from the Estonian state companies that invest in Russia. You know that this market is very political and that you are risking taxpayers' money. In what light does this seem to be the European Union's view of the continuing issue of certain sanctions against the Russian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U62	Thank you. First of all, about these sanctions. You know very well that the Estonian governments, including the current government, are of the opinion that we are, in any case, a supporter of sanction policy in the European Union. I don't think it's worth scaring. What is the purpose of this government? The goal of this government is certainly that we see economic growth not only in a quarter or two quarters, but that it is sustainable. I think that the government must certainly act to ensure that economic growth is as inclusive as possible to Estonian companies, Estonian society, Estonian households and Estonian people. I think that economic growth must reach every person in Estonia. In order to reduce the social inequalities that are denied here, fairer wages must be guaranteed and income guaranteed for those who work daily must be guaranteed a more dignified pension, as well as benefits for those in need. I think that a strong economy, with tax-free income increases, pension reform and health care reform initiated by the government, is part of its essential assumptions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U63	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U64	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! We ask you today about the course of Estonia's foreign economic policy. I will continue with the subject initiated by the previous questioner. Some time ago, it became public that the Estonian state company, whose general meeting is a member of your government, is going to help Russia with a very large investment of 35 million euros. He's going to help a sector that's intertwined with politics in this country. We are talking about the car business that the Estonian state company is going to drive to Russia. In your reply, you have now said that there is a need for more targeted, consistent work in the external economy. I'm sure it's necessary, but direction is also important. We have relevant institutions in the country whose role and role is to assess risks and threats and to know the background of countries whose security policy direction is definitely not friendly for Estonia. Were these institutions consulted when making this decision, which involved making such a large investment by the Estonian state enterprise? What did they evaluate? If they didn't consult, why? When consulted, did they really...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U66	... gave your recommendation to make this investment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U67	Thank you. I am sure that if a member of the Riigikogu asks for an assessment or analysis of these institutions and bodies, these institutions will give it. I am quite convinced that the Minister, who is the general meeting of this company, has considered all the risks very carefully.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U68	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You rightly mentioned that Estonia needs more targeted business diplomacy, especially in today's world, and maybe it needed it in the previous period. What are, in your government's view, the most important countries of destination in foreign policy? Has Finland fallen out of them? I am thinking in particular of the decision of the EAS to significantly reduce its representation in Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U70	Thank you. This was also one of the reasons why the government considered it important to strengthen the External Action Service. At the beginning of this government's work, it was evident that this was the place where the country had to contribute more. I am very pleased that the country has now invested more real financial resources here. It certainly has not been done enough, but a step in this direction has been taken. Finland is an important partner in Estonia, an important export partner; it is a very important partner in economic relations. In my opinion, Finland has not fallen down anywhere. If our tourism sector and business are so strongly connected on a daily basis, I cannot imagine how to fall off the Finnish table. He can't fall down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U71	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U72	Honourable Chairman! Prime Minister! In an earlier reply, you mentioned the support you have put in the budget for the following year from major investors. Last week, the government made the budget. So what's in the budget on this big investor support line? I hope there's not just some small money there, but still 10, 20 or 30 million to help with this. Raise a little bit of secrecy from the government budget approved last week. What is the amount in the support line for a large investor?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U73	Thank you, Aivar Sõerd! I understand that you want to trap me with the long-term experience of working in the government and knowing this area well. The government has indeed discussed the budget at its budget meetings, as has always been the case. But you said the government approved the budget. No, the government didn't confirm that. The Government will do everything in its power to ensure that the Riigikogu receives the best budget possible, which will lead to the life of Estonia and the lives of the people of Estonia and, of course, will contribute to the Estonian economy, including the support from which I should raise the mystery story, as you wish. There's no secret. We are working to give the honourable Riigikogu the draft budget on Wednesday of next week, or midweek. You are still the ones who say whether it is a good budget and will give this budget their final assessment. The budget is adopted by the Riigikogu, not by the government. So let's not get ahead of ourselves. The budget has not yet been adopted by the government, but indeed, in general, it has been agreed. I understand your question had a positive undertone. I'm positive, too. This is an active and realistic budget that will take Estonia's life forward. But I think it is even more important for this budget that the government budget is close to balance. If some time ago, if we did not know that economic growth would be so great, there was a fear that this minus might be greater, then today it can be said that the government budget is close to balance. It is certainly important to you what you have put on the table with me several times, too, to reduce, for example, the government's debt burden, which is currently 9.4%. I think this is an important message. We can say that Estonia's tax burden, which has been so much discussed, will remain stable in the coming years, less than 35% of GDP. You opened it up. I am not specially prepared to speak on this issue because the interviewers asked for other things, but if a member of the Riigikogu asks, I agree to respond. The questions about questions were more about the course of the team Estonia and Estonia's foreign economic policy, but these issues are interrelated. The budget includes, for example, additional funding for the sickness fund and a reduction of the waiting lists. The budget includes an increase in the income tax-free minimum, which leaves EUR 64 more in the hands of every person who earns EUR 1200 or less next year. I also consider it very important (local authorities are not directly involved in economic activities under the Local Government Organisation Act, but they do so every day) that local governments receive an additional EUR 30 million. If this budget is adopted in the government on Wednesday, I will certainly try to give you a concrete answer on this programme. But since the government is a collegial body, I cannot say on my own today on behalf of the entire government, which is the specific amount. It's just not ready yet, but it's going to happen and it's going to happen in the middle of next week.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U74	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! There's no trap on this issue that I'm putting forward, but there's a little bit of curiosity here. When you answered the first question of this inquiry, you mentioned your recent visit to the United States. This visit gave you reason to note that Estonian entrepreneurs could export more to the US markets. I am now asking whether any of the Estonian entrepreneurs have already taken hold of your statement and perhaps asked the state for some kind of support. I don't mean a particular company, but maybe you'll mention whether there's been one. We are talking about access to the US market at a time when the President of the United States is very passionately fighting for the US's export capacity to grow. Or, if no one has approached the state, maybe you have some advice for entrepreneurs, because listen, the US market is open, so go that way too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U76	Thank God, I don't think Estonia is the kind of country where the Prime Minister or the President says we will do this, and then they start running in that direction. It's not like that. You also understand that this can only happen in cooperation. Indeed, companies have sometimes asked for some help in communicating. If you ask about areas related to Estonia's foreign economic policy and the United States market in particular, I will give you a few concrete examples. There were meetings in the military industry, and they want to cooperate. Quite a few start-ups were interested in this visit. We also visited Stanford University, for example... So it can no longer really be said that there is, let's say, a research and development institute next to the university. Speaking of areas where Estonian producers in the United States are doing well in my opinion, this is not related to this visit, do not misunderstand, but certainly this visit may have provided some support, the Estonian Piano Factory, which has been working for decades to export Estonia's keyboards, must certainly be highly valued. These were the areas covered by this visit. I gave some examples of entrepreneurs who were interested in these meetings and asking questions there. I also mention energy-related companies, certainly Norton, for example. These were the areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U77	Arno Bridge
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U78	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! According to the press, we are well behind our neighbours' Latvians in export policy. After all, all their actions and results are still compared with those of their neighbours. What do you think the reason for this so far is whether the misguided attitude of entrepreneurs or the government did not pay so much attention to it? Where should the main emphasis now be put so that we can solve export problems more quickly and better? It is very welcome that trade relations with Canada are now starting to develop. In the meantime, relations with the Chinese and the Japanese were very intense, but they are now quieter. Is there any progress? Jne.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U79	Thank you. When it comes to the European Union level, of course there is interest in moving forward with the Japanese issue, it has not stopped, but now no one dares to say when this deadline is, as was the case with this positive example of Canada, which you have pointed out. When comparing Estonia with Latvia, I think one of the important prerequisites for exports is when we are open to the economy. As I said, very much depends on what is happening in the markets next to us. What we can do ourselves and what is not insignificant is that we contribute to the education system, we also contribute to vocational and vocational education. I think it is a good thing that it is now so topically and acutely on the table and that it is being debated in society. Education is, in any case, one of the basics of export and entrepreneurship at all. With regard to helping businesses, I say that neither the state can help them specifically; it can support them. In my opinion, the attitude must be that reasonable cooperation with our business umbrella organisations is very important. I am not going to read out the steps that can be taken within the country to move the economy forward. But I think it is the External Action Service, our embassies, that is very important for foreign business. I don't dare say in my experience what I have and what has been quite busy lately, as if our foreign missions or embassies weren't working on it. For example, when you talk at the level of ambassadors, you can say that quite a lot of people are paying attention to the creation of business contacts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U80	Thank you, Prime Minister. The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U81	An inquiry submitted by Riigikogu member Igor Gräzin. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U82	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister! The infamous Kaur Kender case is the basis for the inquiry. The problem, in short, is as follows. Kaur Kender, who had written one thing on the Internet, and its connection with Estonia was only that it was in Estonian, that everything was happening beyond our borders, that criminal charges were made for the production and distribution of pornography, etc. And the process began. Let's just say it was clear to the public from the end of the Republic that the process was pointless and bullshit. This, incidentally, was also revealed during the process when all witnesses and peer reviewers unanimously and unanimously acknowledged that Kender's product was a literary work. But even that doesn't matter. More interesting is that even if it had been a pornographic work, it did not contain pornography in this case. The reaction of humans was relatively unambiguous. The Writers' Union drew attention to this and, of course, the cultural community of the Republic as a whole knew that all these things had been discussed to the end. We recall the famous case of Egon Schie in 1912, which all intelligent people who have read old newspapers know very well. Schie's pictures we all love and know. At that time, the Vienna Court had already argued all these matters. Not to mention that our national library is involved in the reproduction, distribution and popularisation of pornographic works. In fact, among the preservations of the National Library is the magazine Maaja, where, through two numbers, the Marquis de Sade's 'Soodoma 120 days' has appeared, and it is not possible to read more than five pages. In short, let's just say the story was sucked out of the lamp. In order for things to become very drastic, Mrs Lea Pähkel was appointed prosecutor, who said that since she wanted to determine what literature was, she would go and ask Rein Vikemann what literature was. Stolovich said he doesn't know what art is, but he'll recognize it when he sees it. I think that if a person doesn't have clear literature for 5th or 6th grade, and if this prosecutor doesn't recognize literature even when he sees it, and it goes into expertise, then it's not, let's say, culturally knows as a competent person and shouldn't deal with such things. All right. Suppose we lacked legal clarity about whether or not there is pornography or pornography. Suppose Lea Pähkli and many others feel that the basic truths are not elementary. Let's argue these things in court. The whole story is not criminally punishable, it is not pornography, it is literature. It's all clear, the legal clarity is at hand, and now, hoplaa, it turns out that this ridiculous decision is being appealed. Lawyers who are probably competent in legal matters demonstrate such cultural ignorance that it is just painful, you listen, but don't think it's possible in the 21st century. This is nothing more than a hog on Estonian citizens. Those aren't my words, it's the Evening Paper who writes about it that way. That's the fact. Now Mrs Pähkel, along with the prosecutor's office, says that they are appealing for legal clarity. So, you, Kender, don't live, you go away, we deal with legal curiosity. I think it's sadism, much bigger sadism than what Kender was accused of. The state pays 40000 experts, salaries, etc. Do we realize that Peanut could have dealt with something more important instead of dealing with this shit? Why did I ask the Justice Minister? The reason is very simple: the Minister of Justice has a duty to disciplinaryly bring the prosecutor to his senses. If the prosecutor is unable to use taxpayers' money correctly, he should be held liable for disciplinary action. That is my question: has it been done and how will it be done in the future? What would make it possible for the DA's office to handle things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U83	Thank you. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, responds to the inquiry. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good inquisitor! Honourable Members! That's the second time I've been speechless. This happened last time because of an incident, which I also brought to the attention of the President of the sitting. I am thinking of an inquiry initiated by EKRE about the decision of the Tallinn Circuit Court. In this discussion, the line was that the judges' heads were about to fly. And now, in this Chamber, there was an invitation to disciplinary action against prosecutors for the performance of their duties which are carried out independently by prosecutors pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Prosecutor's Law. I think the discussion that Igor Gräzin opened is very fundamental. In Estonia, which is the rule of law, there will not be a prosecutor's office in the Estonian SSR, where there will be some procedural arrangements that prescribe political decisions to prosecutors, which they must guide. Igor asked me whether I considered it ethical that the prosecutor's office would appeal against the decision on the motive of legal curiosity, ignore suffering and appeal for the personal desire for revenge, the purpose of which was to create additional suffering. My answer can be one: you don't have to. I do not, of course, consider it ethical to make such an appeal, the cause of which is curiosity. The procedural law does not provide such a basis for the conduct of a state charge. But what is the context? The context is that the prosecutor's office is justified and competent to appeal to the acquittal of the first instance. There is a legal basis for the action chosen by the prosecutor. Whether a conviction is likely or not, I cannot predict in any way, nor can the prosecutor theoretically do, by setting this as the determining criterion for my appeal. The certainty of the circumstances in which the prosecutor considers an appeal to be necessary is the basis for his professional choice. He must do so strictly on the basis of the law. So I cannot impose such a presumption or, in a particular case, join that presumption as if this appeal were motivated by uniformity or revenge. The appeal has been dealt with, therefore, the Court has recognised that at least prima facie is a dispute on which a legal solution must be found. This is a legal issue on how to formulate the relevant penalty provision. The prosecutor who made this appeal appears to be convinced that the accused has committed a punishable act corresponding to its composition. If he didn't have that conviction, there would be a problem, but right now I have no reason to say it. I would point out that this act, which is spoken of or which is also the basis of appeal, is the production of pornographic material representing a child. It's a punishable act. For this criminal policy option, we are also obliged by the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. I would also like to stress that the matter is unambiguously clear: the official supervision of the prosecutor's office by the Ministry of Justice does not extend to the activities of the prosecutor's office in the planning of surveillance activities, pre-trial criminal proceedings or the prosecution of state charges in court. Does the Minister of Justice consider the continuation of Lea Pähk to be ethically acceptable in this matter, even though her comments on the process have been offensive and cynical to the public and the defendant? I would like to stress that the prosecutor's office is competent to decide who is competent to represent the country in a particular case. I would point out that this is a competitive process. Certainly, both the prosecutor and the lawyer must stick to courtesy and a good tone, which is consistent with the general understanding of good procedural practice. But I would like to stress that we have a competitive process, and the person who represents the state charge also provides information about the case to the public in accordance with the law of the prosecutor's office. Do I consider Lea Pähkel's overall education to be sufficient to continue this process? I would like to point out that Lea Pähk has a degree corresponding to a master's degree in law, that she has worked at the prosecutor's office for quite a long time and has dealt mainly with the processing of sexual crimes against children, as well as acts committed by minors. Since 2004, Chief Prosecutor Pähkel has been in charge of the juvenile delinquency department of the Northern District Prosecutor's Office. With regard to both his practical experience and his educational preparation, I have no reason to expect that he will not have the power to prosecute in concrete terms in this process. The question further states: "The fact that the question'What is literature instills doubts? ' and of which the answer is clear to every educated person, he was so confused that he needed to turn to the Professor of Literary Science (sic!) to explain it. Half? " I have no doubt that evidence was produced in this particular court proceedings and called on witnesses both to defend themselves and to prosecute them. I think that the involvement of an expert with expertise is not abnormal in court proceedings, on the contrary, it is a method by which the truth can be established through the views of people with expertise or expertise and expertise. After all, the whole point of court proceedings is to make decisions on the basis of objective knowledge in one case or another. I referred to the prosecutor's previous practical experience. I would like to stress that he certainly has the experience of dealing with offences that go among the charges of child pornography and pornography, as well as child pornography. The inquisitor has also asked about the publication in the press of current material on corrupt schemes in Tallinn's waste management. The inquisitor wonders why the DA's office doesn't deal with these matters. It is probably also the case that Igor Gräzin made an inquiry before the proceedings had come to the public, so he probably did not want to refer to it in his previous position either. But the fact is, according to the information at my disposal, the prosecutor's office already launched criminal proceedings on 1 March in a specific waste management case. Later, while an inquiry had already been transmitted, although it had not received a reply, proceedings were also carried out to make the persons suspected, which is known to the public. The inquisitor asks whether, as Minister of Justice, I consider it necessary to draw the attention of the prosecutor's office to the need for rational use of resources and to demand that taxpayers' money be cut off. In this case, the way in which the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice provide guidance on the priorities of the state charge means, in fact, those criminal policy preferences which are confirmed year by year and which must be used as a basis for the planning of procedural resources, both by the police and by the prosecutor's office. It must be acknowledged that crime, in particular crimes against children, but also sexual crimes, domestic violence, all crimes involving children and for which the public good may be directed against children, are offences that fall within this priority list. The inquisitor wants to know who is responsible at the prosecutor's office for the priority of handling these cases and whether he is liable to disciplinary action. I stress that, under the law of the prosecutor's office, all prosecutors are able to take disciplinary action. The overall management and internal organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office shall be the responsibility of the State Attorney General. But I want to stress once again that the whole logic of the functioning of the state charge is built on the independence of prosecutors. Look, this is important. When we talk about justice, our understanding is that justice is carried out by an independent court. This is a universal prerequisite for the rule of law to function. But there is no doubt that, in practice, a quasi-judicial authority is also the prosecutor's office. His decisions, whether to initiate a criminal case or which procedures to choose to detect a particular act, are, of course, of very strong legal significance, have an impact at all on whether a question will be subject to judicial review and on what sanctions and possible decisions are appropriate to the interest of the State as well as on appeal or cassation. Of course, this issue has been a major public response. The starting point is that the state has criminalised the production of child pornography, including child pornography that concerns imaginary persons. Several international instruments have also been taken as a basis here. It also emerged from this procedure that such standards also apply in Great Britain and the United States, for example. I think that this is undoubtedly an important issue of feelings, but I believe that in the rule of law, the Court will make decisions independently. The court made that decision at its best discretion, and the prosecutor appealed against that decision in accordance with his own inland language and on the basis of the authority which he has under the law. The Circuit Court has accepted this appeal and the decision is given by the District Court, considering the facts, including all the material that is quite substantial and which was the basis for the decision in the Court of First Instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U85	Questions for the Minister. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U86	Thank you. You mentioned the EKRE and one phrase that was once said quite specifically and rightly, because the judges had based their case on foreign law and had assumed the competence and rights of the legislator. Do you really think that the phrase 'heads must fly' must be taken literally, despite the fact that it is a common saying common among the Estonian people? After all, it has to be taken figuratively, metaphorically. There is no doubt that anyone would really want to make heads roll on the EKKRE. Or did you really get the impression that we wanted to do this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U87	No. Let's just say that it was probably a comparison, like Jüri Adams sometimes likes to say, hyperbola. Of course, I did not mean it as if the call had been made for the heads of living people to be removed from their bodies by such an ISIS execution method. It was meant as a figurative expression that judges would have to pay or be punished. If, for this reason, I made a comparison between this proposal by Igor and the call in the Chamber of Legislation, then the proposal to initiate a disciplinary procedure, which is supposed to be carried out with the prosecutor's responsibility, which should then lead to some kind of punishment (i even extend the questioner's position), is of a more specific nature and could be more realistic in some context than the hyperbola used on the separation of human heads and bodies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U88	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U89	Yeah, really, what's true, that's true. I meant it, frankly, of course. They had a figurative expression, I didn't have that much. I think it is very bad if the institution is mismanaged, whether it is the Soviet government or the modern Estonian prosecutor's office because of me. If the administration of the prosecutor's office is unable to run its own office, this is the basis for disciplinary liability. Boys or girls, you just can't do your job! But, I mean, now we're talking about how we protect children. I want to point out that this summer there was a beauty contest for little four-year-old girls, where hips were hoisted, knees were raised, and eyes rolled. 'Emmanuelle', which the President of the honourable Riigikogu knows, because our common friend Mihkel Raud has used it, and what is a hand-job apotheosis in cinematography is compulsory literature for 12-year-olds, etc. Remind me of Moon Detective and Katrin Lusti. Doesn't the DA's office notice everything that's going on?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U90	I think that one of the grounds for initiating criminal proceedings is also the information provided in the press. When the Kender case was dealt with back then, I think it was a personal statement, as I've learned from the media. But there were a number of specific arguments as to whether it was pornography and how to deal with it. I want to point out that, of course, these things that are not specific to little children, exhibiting adulthood, according to our understanding, are lame about them. But the difference is that the current legal logic of punishment sets very clear frameworks for the pornographic context. On this basis, the state charge also makes its decisions, and it does so on an ultima ratio basis. The Chairman of the Riigikogu can complement me because his knowledge of specific cultural topics is greater, as Igor Gräzin referred to. But I would like to stress that, of course, the prosecutor's office still appreciates what has been done specifically. The prosecutor's office does not use the power at the disposal of the state and, of course, force it not to 'good taste' to solve the issues. Here the media has its own responsibility, its own responsibility for parents, and its own responsibility is undoubtedly also a general social attitude, whether we think that these things are okay or not okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U91	The President of the Riigikogu, however, takes the floor on a subject which he thinks he is better able to speak, which is the law of the Riigikogu's home and working procedures. The member of the Riigikogu is able to ask the minister a question during the questioning. Thank you, Igor Gräzin! There are no further questions for the Minister. I'm opening negotiations. Igor Gräzin on behalf of the heir.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U92	Honourable Chairman! Minister, thank you very much. Now, let's just put this Kender thing aside and talk about the DA's office. This may be the seventh or eighth time that I have made extremely serious accusations to the prosecutor's office and the results have been zero. I cannot categorically agree with the Minister of Justice's argument that the prosecutor's office is independent or that he should be independent. Independent is a court. There can be no two parallel courts in a state of democracy, the prosecutor's office and the court. It's a Stalinian system. We're not going back to that. The D.A.'s office is one side of the case, and the other side is the barrister's office or the defendant. The prosecutor's office, that is the problem, takes on an unacceptable function in Estonia, which is completely contrary to the fundamental principles governing the prosecutor's office in a democratic country. The prosecutor's office has made it clear to the Justice Ministers that he must be independent, for the sake of this unfortunate Article 1, even though that independence meant something other than what it actually says. What does the independence of the prosecutor's office in today's Estonia mean? It means unaccountability. How many prosecutors have been held accountable in Estonia? How many prosecutors who have caused people great suffering have they ever missed out on something? I do not want to touch on the ongoing process, which, from the point of view of the prosecutor's office, had been carried out extremely cynically, but I will remind you of an analogous story when five years ago the prosecutor's office investigated land change. Finally, he found a new section on the basis of which to lock people up. Five years of work just meant insulting people. How many prosecutors suffered because of this? None. You see, the situation is inevitably that we have a thousand crimes and we have to choose what we are studying among them and what we are not investigating. This is a matter of priorities. Yeah, Urmas is right. Indeed, these priorities must be set politically. However, if we have a prosecutor's office in the country who is failing with his so-called independence, who, by the way, is going to negotiate a settlement procedure, which is a very important violation of the right of defence, the situation is rife, then in this situation, people are vulnerable to the prosecutor's office. I remember the famous Villu Reiljan sentence, who once said here on this board that the process of land change was based on party interests. I was thinking, fucking Reiljan, you're out of your mind, the Reform Party has nothing on you. But Reiljan was right, there were internal intrigues and inner uniform interests of the prosecutor's office. The prosecutor's office has become the fourth, fifth or sixth branch of power, which fights and acts solely for its own personal bureaucratic power and is not prepared to give it up. By the way, have you noticed how few acquittal judgments we have? It's just because the DA's office is tilting and bringing things to justice at any cost only those who don't break. I would argue that the independent prosecutor's office is one of the most dangerous things we have on the foundations of a democratic state. There's nothing worse than a pre-trial violation. In fact, no one is responsible for this. Who could be responsible or who could be held accountable? Urmas says he can't. Rein Lang also said he couldn't. I understand the Justice Ministers don't dare. There is nothing more political in the United States than the prosecutor responsible. But we have no one responsible: the minister does not dare, and the prosecutor knows that nothing will happen. Well, the press is gonna make fun of us again, but we're gonna laugh at ourselves. We've raised something like this next to ourselves. I have repeatedly said that the worst terrorist weapon in the DA's office today is the lack of time limits for investigations. We're gonna take a man under investigation, and then we're gonna take five, six, or seven years out of his life. [[Hits the remote with his hand.]] The nut's gonna put Kender on the end of that time. For what? We have an institution that not only serves the interests of the state, but also serves its own bureaucratic interests, at the expense of citizens' freedoms, rights and lives. That's what I wanted to say about Kender. Thank you! (My colleague applauds, Gräzin rings his hand and bows.)
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U93	The members of the Riigikogu have no more requests to speak, but the Minister of Justice wishes to participate in the negotiations. Please, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U94	Who, then, determines this public procedural interest, Igor? If this is not done by the prosecutor's office within the framework of his jurisdiction, someone else will. Igor Gräzin did not actually respond specifically in his speech. I understood that he referred to the Minister of Justice, who should then do so, who should say on the grounds of telephone law or any other right, who should be brought to an end in criminal proceedings. Consequently, the question is undoubtedly also symmetrical. If Igor gives the Minister of Justice the power to say, as it should be in a 'humanist' country, that someone can be brought to an end in criminal matters, then this will be followed by a symmetrical decision to initiate criminal proceedings against someone. If this humanistic principle is such that it can require criminal proceedings against someone, then it also means that it should also give competence to what sanction rates can be imposed for specific offences. I want to emphasise that we have the principle of legality. Whether it's entirely rational, that's a question of its own. If it is known that the probability of finding out in a case is extreme, then the question is whether the principle of complete legality is justified, but this principle is valid. In fact, if there are objective circumstances under the terms of the law and under the influence of the prosecutor and the investigative authorities, which show that the offence has been committed, the matter will also be dealt with. The right thing is that there must be priorities, because procedural resources to be able to examine matters as a matter of priority are limited. But we are in the legal environment of continental Europe and we have chosen a system that is written according to law. It is hard to imagine that we would choose an Anglo-American system with elected prosecutors, prosecutors appointed under the leadership of the Congressional Investigation Commission Trump, etc. I do not think that this system, or even its selective application, would make any sense. Speaking of the matter of land change, I would remind you that, although Igor Gräzin used the term 'detention of the pledge', I remember that these sanctions were different, i.e. the actual deprivation of liberty was not applied, neither was detention applied as a restraining order. [[Gräzin's cry from the floor.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U95	Thank you, Minister. I'll consider the inquiry answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-18_U96	Ladies and gentlemen, after a hammer strike it is possible to register for a free microphone round. No callers. Thank you for this day's work. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.02 p.m.
