ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the first Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu in a specially built parliament building, which was opened today exactly 95 years ago. [[Let's hear it.]] In this somewhat festive mood, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. They don't want to be handed over. Please, let's do the presence check! 89 members of the Riigikogu take part in the sitting, no 12.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, Not often do we have two drafts on the agenda, both of which are draft decisions to change members of the special committee of the Riigikogu. That is why I will give you a brief or, rather, a reminder of how this draft decision is being dealt with. First, the presentation of the representative of the performer shall be up to 20 minutes, then the presentation of the representative of the commission shall be up to 20 minutes. Then there are questions for the rapporteur; each member of the Riigikogu may ask each of the two rapporteurs an oral question. Subsequent negotiations, where only representatives of the political groups can speak. Finally, we will reach the final vote. As has been said, today we have two draft decisions on the agenda and they are being dealt with in exactly the same way. Thus, the first item on the agenda is the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party 482. I would like to ask Tiit Terik, a member of the Riigikogu, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, As has been mentioned, you have before you a draft amending the composition of the Special Committee on State Budget Control. Its content is as follows: to appoint Mr Peeter Ernits to replace Mr Marko Šorin as the alternate member of the special committee for the control of the state budget of the Riigikogu, and to do so because Marko Šorin is no longer a member of the Riigikogu. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U4	There's a question for you. Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U5	Thank you. Good waitress! Refresh our memory. Why is Šorin no longer a member of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U6	Thank you for your question. Marko Šorin's departure from the Riigikogu was caused by the fact that Mr Korb is now again our colleague in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U7	Thank you very much. Arto Aas, a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, will also make a presentation. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U8	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this important issue at its meeting on 19 June beginning at 8.30 a.m. The session was chaired by Marko Pomerants. Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Mart Nutt, Peeter Ernits, Tiit Terik were present, missing from Helmut Hallemaa, Kalle Laanet and Lauri Luik. The item was the setting-up of a special committee on state budget control, or rather a change in the composition of that committee. The Centre Party Group has proposed to us that Peeter Ernits replace the current alternate Marko Šorin. The debate was not long and all of the following decisions were taken in consensus. It was proposed that a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Arto Aas, be appointed rapporteur on 12 September 2017 and put to the final vote. I have been asked why we need to discuss such a technical point before the Riigikogu plenary. That's a good question. I also don't know why, it's probably the organisation of the Riigikogu's work. I think that if we ever go back to reviewing the law on our home and working procedures, such points could be left to the board of the Riigikogu or to the body of elders. If this is okay with all the political groups, I think we should not necessarily discuss the exchange of alternates here in the big Chamber. I also take this opportunity to welcome Marko Šorin, who was a very nice member of the Riigikogu and with whom we had a good relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U9	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. If you had asked the President of the sitting why this was necessary, I would have answered that there were no details in the work of the Riigikogu and that the questions concerning the composition of the special committee were certainly not minor matters. I'll open negotiations if that's what you want. However, this is not a wish. There were no amendments to draft 482, so we can go to the final vote. I am voting on the amendment of the Riigikogu decision 'Constitution of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group, draft 482. Please take a stand and vote. Eighty members of the population voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Draft 482 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee on State Budget Control' submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U10	The second item is the amendment of the Riigikogu decision "Constitution of the Special Committee on Anti-Corruption' proposed by the Estonian Centre Party Group in draft 483. Tiit Terik, member of the Riigikogu, is invited to wait for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U11	Good vice chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! As in the previous draft, the draft amendment to the establishment of the Special Committee on Corruption is intended to replace Mr Marko Šorin, the alternate of the Special Committee on Corruption. This time it is proposed that Mr Paur be appointed an alternate member. I ask you to support this decision as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U12	No questions for you. Now I would like to ask Mr Padar, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 19 June. The draft is intended to appoint Mr Toomas Paur as an alternate member of the Special Committee on Corruption, formerly Mr Marko Šorin as an alternate member of the committee. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 12 September 2017 (consensus), that Mr Ivari Padar (also consensus) be appointed rapporteur and that the draft be put to the final vote (also consensual). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-12_U14	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. That's not what you want. There were no amendments to the draft 483, so we can go to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft of the Riigikogu's decision to amend the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' 483. Please take a stand and vote. 79 delegates voted in favour of the draft decision, there were no votes against or abstentions. Draft 483 of the Riigikogu decision "Construction of the Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group has been adopted as a decision. Today's agenda items have been dealt with. I wish you a busy working day. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 10.15 a.m.
