ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the second Thursday session of the V plenary session. Is there a desire to hand over drafts or inquiries? Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U2	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. On behalf of the members of the Conservative People's Party Group, I will refer the question to Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister for Justice. The topic is still compensation for occupation damage to the Republic of Estonia by the Russian Federation. As we know, on 9 June 2004 the Riigikogu adopted a decision on the activities of the National Commission for the Examination of Repressive Policy of Occupations, paragraph 6 of which instructed the Government of the Republic to submit to the Riigikogu, by 1 January 2005 at the latest, its position on any claims for damages resulting from losses and losses caused during the occupations. On 14 January 2005, the Riigikogu received the position of the Government of the Republic, which was entrusted to the Ministry of Justice with the task of preparing a possible claim for damages with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As recent changes have taken place in the composition of the Government of the Republic, it is appropriate to reconsider the issue of compensation for occupation losses. Since our Prime Minister's party has a cooperation protocol with the Prime Minister's Party of the Russian Federation One Russia, we would like to have an overview of the positions of the new government regarding the filing and consistency of claims for damages in the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the decision of the Riigikogu. Based on the above information, we have four questions. First of all, 'What is the view of the Government of the Republic regarding the claim for occupation damage from the Russian Federation? ' Second: 'Does the Minister of Justice intend to continue to carry out the tasks assigned to the government by the Riigikogu in 2004? " Third: " How can the involvement of the government department of the Republic of Estonia with the government department of the Russian Federation affect the process of filing damages? " Fourthly, do you intend to demand that the Government of the Republic proceed with the identification of occupation losses and the filing of a claim? ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U3	Thank you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U4	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! Last autumn, the National Audit Office presented the audit 'The state's activities in centralising the administration of state property', i.e. in a simpler language, revealed how changes made in the state's real estate arrangements over 15 years have justified themselves. This was discussed at the public meeting of the State Budget Control Committee and invited guests largely agreed with one of the main conclusions of the audit that there is no comprehensive real estate policy in Estonia. When it comes to what it should be, a common response was sought. In our view, i.e. the eight members of the Free Party Group, this is such an important issue that it deserves more attention in this Chamber as well. That is why we are asking the Minister for Public Administration to answer seven good questions, which we hope to get good answers to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U5	Thank you. Rainer Vakra, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 16 January, the Committee on the Environment decided to initiate a draft law supplementing § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act. This is due to the decision of the Riigikogu of 25 October 2016 to support the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution. The aim is to bring § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act into line with the Constitution and to alleviate the situation of landowners who have privatized their land from the state with a post-tax payment and whose countries have subsequently been subject to intensive conservation restrictions by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U7	Thank you. There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U8	Ladies and gentlemen, Today's first item on the agenda is the first reading of the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Board 363. I would point out that every member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to put an oral question to the rapporteur during the debate on this item. On behalf of the commission, I would now like to ask for a presentation of the chair of the member of the Committee on Culture, Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! At the meeting of the Committee on Culture held on Monday, 9 January, we discussed the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the nomination of the members of the National Opera Council as an item on the agenda. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu decided to submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu for the appointment of new members of the Riigikogu due to the resignation of two current members from the Council at its own request. The Council is the highest governing body of the National Opera, consisting of 11 members. On the proposal of the Committee on Culture, the Riigikogu appoints three members of the Riigikogu to the Council. In addition, two members appointed by the Minister of Culture (now Arne Mikk and Paavo Nõgene), one member appointed by the Minister of Education and Research (Janar Holm), one member appointed by the Minister of Culture (Tea Varrak), one member appointed by the Council of the Estonian Academy of Music and Theatre (Peep Lassmann), one appointed by the board member of the Estonian Theatre Association (Rina Viiding), one appointed by the board member of the Estonian Composers' Association (René Eespere) and one appointed by the board member of the Estonian Society (Ants Wõrk). At the request of Mart Helme and Laine Randjärv, members of the Riigikogu, as a result of their resignation as a member of the Supervisory Board, their mandate ends before the deadline. On the basis of § 6 (6) of the National Opera Act, the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Cultural Commission, appoints new members to the Council until the end of the term of office of the members of the Board to be replaced, in this case until 25 May 2019. The Committee on Culture accepted (consensus) the proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to appoint Martin Repinski, member of the Riigikogu, and the proposal of the Estonian Reform Party Group to appoint Urve Tiidus, member of the Riigikogu to replace Laine Randjärv. The mandate of the new members of the Supervisory Board begins with the entry into force of the Riigikogu decision when it is signed. According to § 117 (1) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, this draft decision of the Riigikogu is discussed at a single reading. As the draft decision has been submitted by the Cultural Committee of the Riigikogu, whose right to appoint members of the National Opera Board is derived from § 6 of the National Opera Act, no amendments are submitted to the draft. A majority of the votes of the Riigikogu are necessary for the adoption of the draft decision. Now the decisions of the Commission. It was decided to initiate the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Board, appoint the Cultural Commission as the lead committee, propose to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 19 January (decisions were consensual), appoint Heljo Pikhof as the committee rapporteur (decision was consensual) and propose to put the draft to the final vote (decision was also consensual).
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U10	Thank you. Good waitress, there are some questions for you. First Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! When a board of directors of a state company is appointed, it often does not even find a small one-phrase representation in the media. As an actor still involved in the theatre of Estonia, I know that the appointment of new people to the National Opera Council has already caused a storm in the water glass among the theatre people. Did the representatives of the Centre Party explain in the Commission why Martin Repinski was appointed? What is his cultural and theatre competence?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U12	Thank you for your question. Indeed, this question arose for a moment. The representative of the political group said that this was carefully considered and that it was found to be a person who had an interest in participating in the work of this Council and also a clear cultural interest. That was the reasoning of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U13	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I don't want to say anything about candidate Martin Repinski. It certainly has rich and diverse experience in the agricultural sector. But among the 101 members of the Riigikogu, we also have people who have acquired education in the cultural field, who are professionals in this field, who have contributed to the development of national culture and who have been opinion leaders on cultural topics. Why did the Committee on Culture make such a choice? The tasks of the National Opera are organising performances, ensuring a high artistic level of concerts and performances, and the purposeful promotion of the repertoire of the music theatre. Repinski's obviously not fit for this job. Why was such a decision made? Doesn't it devalue the reputation of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U15	Thank you for your question. I would remind you that the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu is made up of representatives of different political parties. Your representatives agreed to this decision. Please ask them!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U16	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U17	Thank you. Estonia's theatre is not a business company, but I think its role in Estonia is even more important than that of some state-owned companies, such as the Teede Technology Centre, whose board members will be screened by a high-level nomination committee. Has there been any mention in the commission or coalition that representatives of the Riigikogu will be better screened and evaluated for their competence in other councils? Looks like it's kind of out of balance right now. We will be allowed a completely new era and the end of the back rooms when we talk about state companies, but in the case of foundations, theatres and other institutions, everything will continue as before. In itself, I repeat, members of the Riigikogu of course may participate in such councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U18	Thank you. It is the law of the National Opera, and the Committee on Culture, of course, must comply with the law. If it is foreseen that the Riigikogu will appoint three members, we will do so in the Committee on Culture. One member is currently Maire Aunaste. But when it comes to who is being put there, we expect the political groups that are proposing to know their members best and know who the Council suits. However, I think it is worth trusting the political groups to some extent. It's not like we're gonna run some kind of quiz on the ministers, either. We have also had ministers who have taken the lead in an area that has never been their own before, but they have managed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U19	Thank you. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U20	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! I've got some explaining that ends with a question. I, too, have been a member of the Estonian National Opera Council, and I was given this proposal, and this idea was supported personally by Mr Klas, who was lost in the Group. When I went there, I was surprised at the beginning that our competence was not to determine and say who sings the part of Amneris, for example, or whether Rudolfo sings his final aria standing, lying or standing. Rather, it deals primarily with financial issues, investment issues. At the time, for example, there was a very serious problem that water broke into the lower floors of the Estonia Theatre. In short, creative questions are in the background. The question, however, is this: has there been a change in the Council Statute now, or is it really the case that certain people decide that this or another person is not fit for this role because he talks rather than sings?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U21	Thank you. Let's just say that we can't judge the members of the Riigikogu in this Chamber or say that one is like this, another is different and someone is suitable for one reason or another. Martin Repinski will be one of the 11 members. I don't think he's the only one on the Council. We'll see how he's doing. Let's give a young person a chance, maybe later we'll have the most use.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U22	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U23	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Have you discussed and thought about this or combined the programme of the Estonian National Opera, the performance calendar so that more concerts or performances will now be given in East and West Viru County, thanks to Martin Repinski's presence in the Council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U24	Thank you for your question. As I said when I answered the Enn Front question, we'll see. I can't predict.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U25	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U26	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker! This is the Estonian National Opera Council. Is the Committee on Culture and, more generally, the Riigikogu competent to make such decisions? And also, shouldn't candidates be voted separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U27	Thank you for your question. The current law does not allow this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U28	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U29	Thank you very much. As a former member of the Council who has resigned, I would first like to give a few explanations and then also ask a question. The speaker has just asked me a question about why we agreed. The Committee on Culture also had former members of the Council and members of the Reform Party, Aivar Sõerd's associates. The obvious thing is that the coalition and the opposition agree on how these three positions are divided. This time it was divided so that the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, the Centre Party and the Reform Party all received a single seat. Each group offers its own people, it is as simple as that. And let's be honest, there's nothing else to say. Am I saying the right thing, Heljo Pikhof?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U30	You're telling the right story at grade five.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U31	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U32	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I wouldn't be as critical as any of my colleagues about the lack of acting powers and lack of experience in the performances of members of the Riigikogu. But my question is entirely different. A good former colleague, Martin Repinski, has promised to sue the Estonian Express. Aren't you afraid that such lawsuit and reputational damage could be disastrous for Estonia, the national theater? Is Neeme Järvi even ready to come next time to guide our choir and orchestras?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U33	There's nothing to do, unfortunately. I'm representing the Committee on Culture right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U34	You can't see any more words. Thanks to the waitress! Let's go to the calls. First please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U35	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The leadership of the group asked me to explain in a few words why we reached such a position. It seems that good colleagues have major problems with knowing the principles of law and the work of the Riigikogu, but especially with regard to the abilities, talents, musicality, etc. of one or other colleague. As has already been said, the task of the Riigikogu is to appoint three members to the National Opera Council. There is, by the way, a very simple principle which, fortunately, has already been repeated in the background of the questions: the members of the Council do not have to do high-level creative work. Members of the Riigikogu are also not required to be well qualified. I have said several times that I could at least require a Master's degree from members of the Riigikogu. Somehow, however, most of you would vote against it and feel that this is a very stupid proposal. Just as the Riigikogu has formed such a beautiful peasant principle in the councils and committees: the god's zoo is the richer the diversity it is. You know, there must be not only directors and conductors in the National Opera Council, but even theatre visitors. I myself have been a member of the Supervisory Board of the University of Tartu Hospital for a long time. If anyone asks me if I could volunteer for some simple surgery, for example, I would take out the appendix if there was nothing else, I couldn't do that. I don't know theories about that either. However, the management of the university clinic, i.e. the council and also the executives, claimed that Black was of great benefit, even though he was not even a decent patient. So I suggest you think soberly about what our tasks are, which are our criteria, and not to insult someone who is too good a farmer or the like. That was the position of the Centre Party Group when he chose the person who had the passion to see whether Madis Milling was a good actor or not to clap him with passion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U36	Next, please speak on behalf of the Reform Party Group in Laine Randjärv.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U37	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I did not have a speech planned and we have not agreed here either that I am speaking on behalf of the group, but I am speaking as a representative. Listening to the discussion here, I remembered a very popular piece of Pippi Longstocking once performed at the Estonian opera theatre. Pippi had one such text there: the most important thing is that a person has a heart inside and beating as needed. That's why I'd still give Martin Repinski an advance to a young person. Too bad he's not here right now, and he can't hear it. One might ask whether, for the payment of this member of the board, a person needs to go to study and supplement himself, perhaps he could study somewhere else. But if that's an opportunity, why not? Perhaps it is possible for the members of the Council to visit premieres and they are not only musicals, but also operas and ballets. It would be good to hear Martin speak of an opera or a ballet and not just musicals or operas, but about the impression he had of it. In the field of culture, it is certainly never too late to broaden the horizon in the area of serious culture. But if Martin Repinski became a member of the council, I would expect him to support the very passionate efforts of the Director General of the Estonian National Opera, Aivar Mäe. Hello, Martin! I'm so glad you came to this hall. You can also hear everything I have to give you as a dowry. I did not say anything about this: I hope you will support Aivar Mäe's efforts to develop the National Opera and his ideas, which he has presented to both the Committee on Culture and the political groups who have visited him on excursions. The Estonian National Opera could receive its new house at one point just 20 or 50 years later. Visions and project plans should be in place right now. Although this is not a city hall that is allowed to be reorganized or renovated into an opera house, new plans have now come to the new government, they just want to reconstruct Tallinn City Hall with state money, and maybe this is a really good idea, but let us not forget the national opera. Good Martin! I'm gonna put a mission to your heart. Please fight vigorously and be supportive of Aivar Mäele, so that once a new house of the Estonian National Opera can be built, a modern one, such as Sydney or Oslo, which will come to see all the world's cultural enthusiasts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U38	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, no amendments can be tabled to this draft. The commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 363 and we will go to it. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision to appoint the members of the National Opera Council 363. Please take a stand and vote. There were 59 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no one opposed, 13 members of the Riigikogu with no abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U39	Today's second item is the first reading of the Draft Act 355 on the Amendment of the Spatial Data Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment of the Chair. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet in the Chamber, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U40	Good morning, Mr President. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I present to you the draft law amending the Spatial Data Act and related amendments to other laws. It is prepared under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, mostly in the Land Administration. In advance, I can also say that according to this law, the address of the theatre in Estonia remains exactly the same as it is now on Estonia puiestee 4. In the future, maybe another address will come to a house. Spatial data are data on maps in common terms, including, for example, data on roads, buildings, forests and land elevation, addresses and place names. We use spatial data without realizing it every day, either by orienting with a map in the forest or by looking for a destination by the address. The current legislative changes focus mainly on organising address data and harmonising them in different databases. Once the address details have been adjusted, it is guaranteed, for example, that the ambulance will reach the person in need, that the mail will not come to the neighbour's office, but I have very good address details, but sometimes my mail will still come to the neighbors, so that there is no real guarantee of this, and that there is less incorrect information in national databases. Good data quality creates prerequisites for, for example, a registry-based census (in 2020), which is ten times less expensive than a traditional door-to-door census. The changes mainly specify the rules for determining the addresses of buildings and apartments. For example, the current law allows you to set an address on one side of the road with consecutive house numbers. However, it is common practice in Europe that adjacent land units and successive buildings are numbered with odd numbers on one side of the traffic surface and even numbers on the other side. There are places in Estonia, such as former cottage areas, where there is a system of streets, but the numbering of houses is messy, and according to the law, municipalities cannot be obliged to clean it up. Now, on one side of the law, the possibility of numbering the road is deleted. This strict regime ensures that we find buildings and rural units in our daily lives, which is the main task of the local addresses. Next, the law obliges you to assign a unique address to land units located in a densely populated area or with a detailed plan. First of all, specialists from different fields deal with the concept of dense and diffuse settlement in different ways, and in several cases it makes no sense to assign a unique address to a densely populated area or to a detailed plan. The obligation of detailed planning is often assigned, for example, to a distributed nature reserve. In calculating the land tax, all cities are automatically considered to be densely populated to the full. The current approach leads, for example, to the requirement of street address in the City of Paldiski in the Pakri islands. In addition to the administrative reform, there are several widely distributed cities in Estonia where the address rule applicable to the city should be implemented according to the current law. The bill corrects the requirement to set a unique address. Once the change has been made, the site address shall be determined by means of a unique address requirement for land units located in an area where there is, or is intended to be, a clearly delimited dense settlement, i.e. compact buildings and streets. The Spatial Data Act further specifies the content and requirements of geodetic works. In practice, there have been problems measuring the geodetic sign. While the owner of the immovable property has granted access to the mark and allowed its maintenance, it has not been measured because the law does not expressly provide for it. The bill now clearly states that the owner of the immovable property must allow the maintenance of the geodetic sign, as well as the measurement work, and ensure access to the mark. The owner of the immovable property shall not incur any additional costs. Amendments to the Commercial Code and the Law on Non-Profit Associations are of a technical nature. The aim is to ensure the interoperability of the business register and the register of non-profit organisations with the address data system information system. Operators must now be ready to specify their company's address in the register, if necessary, for example with the submission of the annual report. If the address of the company is to the accuracy of the village, it is not enough and the address is requested to be specified. The amendment to the Population Register Act relates to the fact that it often takes more time to assign an address to a building and an apartment than it is allowed to spend on a population register operation, which is ten days. The amendment ensures that a person has the possibility to register his or her place of temporary residence and the rights arising therefrom, such as social benefits. In summary, the impact of the draft on the administrative burden is limited and the change does not entail a fundamental change in the day-to-day working routine of state and local authorities. Local authorities are also provided with funding to carry out the activities foreseen in the amendments. The country is becoming more administratively efficient. Citizens and businesses will be provided with better quality services thanks to the better functioning of national registers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U41	Thank you, dear waitress. Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm sorry! Still is. Henn Põllamaas. Please, if possible, be faster while registering questions! Here you go, Henn Põllamaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, What about those places where the house numbers have not been fixed in accordance with the new law? Will all these addresses across Estonia be changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U43	Thanks! In most cases, there is a normal system where there are even numbers on one side and odd numbers on the other side. If this is a situation like this, nothing will happen. This law may, in the case of a new administrative division, create situations where compliance with the law is neither practical nor reasonable. We call for improvements where it is needed. In my speech, I gave an example of the cottage areas where people live all year round these days. I can name Võru in Meegomägi, a cottage cooperatif. Well, if you only go there once every three years, it's gonna be hard to get to the right place. But an ambulance or some other helping machine should still reach people. This is a very sensible activity. In a country with scattered settlements, as I know, the village of Roos has a Hinno farm on one side of the road, everything remains the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U44	Thank you. Please, Peter Ernits!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U45	Good manager! Good minister! I read that statement. As I understand it, it did not start because the organisation would be reasonable and always find the right address, but it says here that the drafting started in 2013 in connection with the infringement procedure for a directive by the European Commission. On this point, the provisions relating to the Directive were removed during the procedure. But speak the language of the earth what it means. What exactly did this European Commission start as an infringement procedure and what was left out? How is this thing anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U46	Thanks! I'll give you an honest answer. At the moment, I have no oral explanation for what happened with the directive. The fact is that everything that concerns the better functioning of the Estonian person and the better functioning of our country is stated in this bill. I'm ready to give you a written answer to your exciting question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U47	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U48	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I do not have a substantive question about the draft. I suppose this law is correct and necessary, and I trust a minister who is a very good expert. However, my question is more fundamental and concerns the area of government. I see that the draft and the explanatory memorandum have been prepared mainly by the people of the Land Administration. Ministries could be the ones who prepare the legislation themselves, the people of the agencies should be dealing with more practical matters. How do you feel, is it customary for the people of the agency to prepare for the legislative work of the Ministry of the Environment? None of these, let's say, are they involved in the substance ministry? What thoughts and feelings does that make you feel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U49	Thanks! Good question! I went over the list myself by accident, and I would have called it a criticism of the situation, which has also occurred in Estonian history, that there is an office that creates a law for itself to exist. For example, the Estonian National Opera could have the task of making its own law, which sets out how best to develop beautiful art. In this case, it is sufficient that the Land Board is the competence centre for the daily use of spatial data in our country. It is not political changes in this sense, but changes that help specialists to do their daily work. As a competence center, this is the right place. If you look at the explanatory memorandum again, the so-called result of this draft also concerns population operations, etc. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior, Enel Punga, as well as representatives of other ministries, are well involved here. The Ministry, in the form of the Ministry of the Environment, has helped to ensure that the draft corresponds to the framework and form of a single draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U50	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Everything has a price tag on it, even in this case. Of course, this is not only a question of producing license plates, but also of changing registers and other related costs. Can you tell me what these changes could cost and how long it will all be divided?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U52	Thanks! In order to save the time of the delegates, I say that if you take off page 12, point 7 of the explanatory memorandum, there is a description of what these development work costs, how it is planned and how much the costs of local governments are. Municipalities' expenditure is covered by the State in order to complete this work quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U53	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U54	Good manager! Good minister! In fact, the website of the Land Board has much more interesting and much longer explanatory notes, but there are still questions. I'd still like to look into it. We would probably have continued in the same confused situation if the European Commission had not launched an infringement procedure three years ago, on which, as I understand it, we took some provisions out of the directive. And now, finally, three years later, let's get back to it. Doesn't the Ministry look at such simple things and wait somewhere for a directive from the European Commission, for example, to start cleaning up addresses normally?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U55	Thanks! The Ministry is constantly engaged in planned activities. This includes the fact that, in the meantime, if the European Commission has found one or another contradiction, how to say, in our opinion, in the correct laws, they must be dealt with. It is also a part of everyday work; there is nothing extraordinary or crazy about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U56	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U57	Thank you. I'm asking how it's going to look practically. How will it be resolved if it is impossible to locate a certain address? People live nicely in a house with an address, but a stranger just can't find it. There are situations where one street ends and continues in a completely illogical place. You could still insist that the street goes a more logical way. Doesn't that have anything to do with the local governments now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U58	Thanks! The point is that local governments do this job, and no one else can do it for them. The state can provide a legal framework and instruments to do this work. Municipalities still have to deal with cases like this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U59	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U60	Thank you. Good Minister, please tell me once again where this has to do with administrative reform and the accession of local governments. We know that a lot of names, addresses need to be changed. It has been argued here that all this has nothing to do with administrative reform. Please, repeat what other changes need to be made because municipalities merge, village names overlap, street names overlap, etc. Does this have anything to do with this bill? Should it still be improved, checked or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U61	Thanks! As a matter of urgency, I will say that it certainly has a bearing on the administrative reform. New situations, towns inside the city, etc., will arise, even if they are completely new, so there is a problem. As a result, all this handling of addresses will contribute, even so that everything that concerns taxes on the one hand and benefits on the other will reach people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U62	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U63	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Good minister! A good colleague, Arto Aas, was a bit concerned with administrative reform, but I am asking from a different angle. We now have Paldiski, Kohtla-Järve, Killa, they are also listed here, where this principle of a unique address is not applied. But now we have more areas in Estonia where cities become like land. There is also one municipality that is not at all a city.. Pärnu becomes a municipality. Has it been evaluated how many such areas are created without a unique address? Secondly, in terms of self-education, I ask how this area is evaluated within one municipality at all. Where is the unique address requirement applied and where is not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U64	Thanks! Where to apply it, I tried to explain it in my speech. This basically means an area where there is a dense population Where there is a street network and where numbering makes sense at all. Everything about normal village life stays the way it is now. When it comes to finding a place there, the law doesn't do all the things. The good will of local governments depends on whether or not you can see where you can turn to go in the right direction. But if you ask how much it can change addresses in Estonia and answer Arto Asa's question about the problem, hundreds of thousands of addresses will change during the administrative reform. So this is a pretty massive change. Therefore, one thing is that a person can still go home every night, apart from administrative reform, but all authorities should also be able to find his home. I guess there's still a lot of circumstances. For example, a person may also have several homes in the meantime living with one person, sometimes with another, at a third moment alone. But that's the next thing. A person should give the country the address from which the country receives it, whether it is there at night or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U65	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U66	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Ideally, we must get to it, that every house has its own number, every farm has its own name, and if we turn away from every major road, we can see five to the farm, etc. That is certainly what we are striving for. But in practice these days, it still happens that if you need to order an ambulance, for example, you have to explain a lot and a long way to explain that you're going off this road, going 400 meters, then the birch comes, you're going left at the birch, and then you get to Pihlaka farm. Will there also be platforms in the future where, let's say, an ambulance will enter the target address and reach its destination freely, quickly and logically? Such electronic platforms...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U67	I can tell you so much about this that the Alarm Centre, which must, above all, ensure that assistance reaches the person in need, led by Director General Janek Laeva, deals with this on a regular basis. We have also had to use external tools to ensure that the basis of the card is good and correct. And I, who also has certain connections on the other side of Põlvamaa, I still point out, in the area of the village of Roos, that I had a sad experience when I recently needed an ambulance there. But it was also a good experience, because help came to the right place, one minute he was in the yard, where he was expected. So the current data can also reach those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U68	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Did I understand you correctly that the state is financially compensating for the additional work that local authorities should do to change and clean up this system? If you include changes related to the administrative reform that concern addresses and spatial indications, is it also covered? How much could all this cost local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U70	I'm cheating. As I said, one of the places to get answers is on page 12 of the explanatory memorandum. But I have a cheater ahead of me and I can say that it was also discussed in the Committee on the Environment when this bill was being processed, and the possible costs have already been covered. At the end of 2016, the Government of the Republic extended the support to local authorities for organising address data. At present, the previous financing was extended, with EUR 413000 left. If local authorities do all the work foreseen, then another EUR 400000 will be needed. Thus, local authorities have been allocated more than EUR 800000. And I would also like to emphasise why the country has done so and has allocated this support: it is interested in ensuring that this work goes quickly and smoothly. With regard to the development of the national registers, this is also the case with money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U71	Thank you, good waitress. No further questions for you. Member of the Environment Committee, Meelis Mälberg, to present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U72	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated a draft law amending the Spatial Data Act and related amendments to other laws on 19 December 2016. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 9 January, Ms Mall Kivisalu, Head of the Address Data Department of the Land Office, and Ms Mari-Liis Tamme, lawyer of the Legal Department of the Land Office, were invited to present the draft. I am no longer going to rephrase the draft law in detail, as the Minister has already given a very thorough overview. I would rather talk a little about the Commission's discussion, which took place after the presentation of the draft and concerned the vital applications of how addresses are used in real life. Time has moved on, and many today use navigational devices of all kinds. In the Commission, the discussion went on to see how the data from platforms were actually updated. This became quite specific, particularly concerning cooperation between the Land Board and the companies that manufacture navigation software. The Land Board has been in contact with Google's representatives for five years, who consistently promise to use Estonia's most recent data, but unfortunately have not done so to date. Google has taken over the address details of the larger cities, Tallinn and Tartu to some extent, but has not done so in the case of locations located elsewhere in Estonia. Many times Google has also signed a mutual good cooperation agreement, i.e. all our official data are free of charge and updated every month. But like I said, Google doesn't use them. To some extent, however, he's constantly updating our data, but not according to the actual Earth Administration data. According to Google's policy, citizens can report their differences in addresses themselves and are used to improve them, but they are not over-checked. The city of Rakvere is particularly distressed, where the entire section of the street is named with a false name, but it is not officially possible to correct it. There are also good examples in this regard. Garmin, a well-known manufacturer of navigation equipment, is constantly updating its data, using official data, as well as the company HERE, which manufactures or provides them with software. The Commission also took a number of procedural decisions at the end of its meeting. These were as follows: appoint Mr Meelis Mälberg, member of the Committee on the Environment, and propose that the draft be included in the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 19 January, finish the first reading of the bill 355 and set the deadline for the draft 355 amendments at 2 February at 16 a.m. The participants made all decisions in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U73	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, Speaking about Google and Google Maps, I was urged to ask about the fact that Estonia is known to have a number of old unbreaked buildings and places waiting for a new life. Is there any way they're marked on the map? Can they be viewed by satellite, i.e. are they marked with any numbers? Maybe such a question is completely irrelevant, but I'm just curious.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U75	The question is very relevant. It is this bill that creates the prerequisites for all spatial objects to be marked with addresses. It's not just about the buildings that have been demolished. Unfortunately, we have houses that do not have an address, and it is very difficult to find them. This is the same bill that is trying to improve the reality of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U76	Thank you. Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U77	Thank you. I will also ask the Commission rapporteur what I asked the main rapporteur. You talked a lot about working with companies that have navigational equipment or who operate them. Now we're going to have a really big change, not to say quite a mess with the addresses. Did the Commission mention how long it might take them to re-establish this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U78	Yeah, that's what I was talking about. This draft does not deal directly with administrative reform, but creates prerequisites. People in the county administration have thought a lot about how address data could be arranged quickly after administrative reform. They said they upload new data every month. However, I do not want to believe well that all address data will be correct in one month after the administrative reform has been implemented. It's probably gonna take more time in real life and want to clean up a little bit more, even house celebrations, etc. It's not really about celebrating houses, but the important thing is, the municipality can give all the places new addresses, and it's probably gonna take a little bit of time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-19_U79	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of Bill 355. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 355 amendments, including 2 February at 4 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, our sitting today is closed. Have a nice day, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 10.58 a.m.
