ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U1	Good morning, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session. First of all, there is the possibility of passing on drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. I have been instructed to inform you that today, after the plenary session has ended, there will be a meeting in this Chamber of the Estonian-Algeria Parliamentary Group. The caller is Einar Vallbaum. Incoming check, please! Seventy-six comms are here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U2	Today's first item is the continuation of the second reading of the Bill 189 on the Amendment to the European Union Citizens' Act and the Equal Treatment Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mart Nuti, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to speak as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U3	Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! After stopping reading the draft, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft at its regular meeting on Tuesday 4 April. Liina Kanter, Head of the Department of Equality Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Nele Wheat, Legal Adviser to the Legal and Human Resources Department, as well as Ruth Annus, Head of the Department of Citizenship and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, were invited to the discussion of the item. During the meeting, the Commission's advisor gave an overview of what had taken place in the meantime. In fact, the second reading of the draft was held in the Riigikogu plenary session on 22 March and then the reading was interrupted. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 30 March. Only the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia presented proposals and there were 20 of them in total. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs sent the draft for consultation and opinion to all stakeholders who had participated in previous discussions. The opinion was given by the Estonian Human Rights Centre, the Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. The Round Table of Estonian Women's Associations supported the solution that the necessary regulation for the transposition of Directive 2014/54/EU is provided for in the European Union citizen's law. The Estonian Chamber of Disabled People proposed to eliminate the unequal treatment of social groups contained in § 2 of the Equal Treatment Act and to ensure the same protection against discrimination for all people. This is certainly necessary in principle, but this proposal does not concern the scope of this law, since its scope was limited to accession to the Convention and not to other issues. This proposal needs a separate initiative and the Commission has been informed that this initiative is in the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Estonian Human Rights Centre supported the initial version of the draft and considers that the protection of a citizen of a Member State of the European Union must be enshrined in the Equal Treatment Act. However, the Commission's approach, as I have already pointed out, is now that the directive will be transposed and other issues will be further addressed. Why is that? Indeed, the deadline for transposition of the Directive is 16 April inclusive. If Estonia does not transpose the directive, we will have an infringement procedure, which could cost quite a lot: more than EUR 360000. On other issues, the Commission maintained a very unanimous position. The proposals put forward by the Conservative People's Party Group concerned the earlier text and not the new text, which is why the Commission adopted a decision on these proposals as a whole. These proposals were supported by one Member of the Commission and others did not. The representative of the EKRE Group was the only one who supported these proposals. Finally, procedural decisions were made. First, the consensus proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of the plenary session on 11 April. Ken-Marti Vaher, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott, Ivari Padar, Peeter Ernits, Jaak Madison and Helmut Hallemaa voted in favour. The second reading was proposed to be closed, and the decision was also consensual. Thirdly, it was decided to send the draft to the third reading by 13 April when the second reading was completed (consensual decision again). The fourth proposal was to put the draft to a final vote after the third reading. That's all I got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U4	Thank you very much. Before you can ask Peter Ernits, I ask the hall: do you hear the waitress well? Not really? I also got the impression that the radio was playing next door. I suggest you do it like Andres Herkel: lift the microphones higher or bend closer. Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U5	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Actually, we're in a situation where the baby's in hand and there's no escape. If the law has not been passed by Sunday, we will be faced with a fine of EUR 360000. I will ask my questions in particular for the sake of the verbatim. How has it been reached so far that such a fine can wait for us? And who is responsible and who is paying for it? Do we, if we don't approve today? Is there any similar practice in the past? This Directive was adopted by the Council of Europe and Parliament three years ago, in 2014.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U6	First of all, the information that this infringement procedure could start on the 16th was not known to us very long ago. This became known to us in February or even March this year. Why this is, I cannot say exactly, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was not in direct correspondence with the European Commission. However, if infringement proceedings are opened and we receive a fine, it will be paid from the budget of the Estonian state in an understandable manner.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U7	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U8	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If we have a point on the agenda that we are discussing amending the European Union citizen's law and the Equal Treatment Act, will certain changes in this law be excluded? As your report reveals. But the title says we're changing the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U9	Of course, every possible change can be made. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has decided that we will draw up a new original text which will only concern the ratification of the directive, and that we will deal with other issues within the framework of other drafts. Otherwise, it would not be possible to adopt this draft before the infringement procedure begins.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U10	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U11	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! I'm touching the same theme. We in the Committee on Legal Affairs have discussed exactly the same problem: two or three years ago the directives have been adopted, but for some reason our ministries arrive before the Commission with drafts, either just before or after the deadline for enforcing the directive in Estonia. Has the Committee on Constitutional Affairs made a note of this to the Ministry of Industry? In fact, it makes sense to start processing the directives immediately, because it would give us the opportunity to propose substantive amendments as legislators and to clarify what one or the other directive will bring to the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U12	Thank you. Bill 189 was actually in the process for quite a long time. But in the case of this bill, the initiator, the Ministry of Social Affairs, was interested in a broader approach to the subject. In this, however, the government authorities were unable to reach an agreement and both the path was chosen, which was approved by the government and both the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior: we are currently confined to ratifying the directive. So if the government had only come up with ratification of the directive about a year ago, it would have been done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U13	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U14	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I'll continue on the previous subject. We're actually moving on the verge of punishment that threatens us right now. The axe is about to fall and must be avoided. But you have a long experience. How many such infringement proceedings hang in the air above our heads, even those falling within the remit of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but also others?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U15	As far as I know, there are no such drafts in the proceedings of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. As regards the issues of other committees, such as the Committee on European Union Affairs, we are not familiar with this and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has not discussed these issues either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U16	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. If you want, I'll open negotiations. That's not what you want. Let us examine the proposed amendments. There are 20 of them and everyone is from the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. According to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, no amendments should be voted as they received less than two votes in favour in the committee. Nevertheless, we will examine the amendments. The first amendment, as has been said, has been tabled by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. The decision of the commission is to disregard it for the above reasons, as are Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. We have examined the amendments together. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the second reading of the draft 189, but a statement has been received from the Riigikogu Board. The Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to interrupt the second reading of the Act amending the Citizen's Act and the Equal Treatment Act 189. We will vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to interrupt the second reading of the draft Act amending the Citizen's Act and the Equal Treatment Act 189. Please take a stand and vote. Seven MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 60 against. The EKRE Group's proposal to interrupt the second reading of the draft could not be supported. Bill 189, second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U17	The second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Security Authorities Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U18	Honourable Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Security Authorities Act and other laws 383 was at second reading in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 3 April 2017. Neither the members of the Riigikogu nor the political groups had tabled amendments. The Constitutional Commission itself initiated an amendment concerning the entry into force of the Act: the Act could enter into force on 1 July 2017. This is particularly because the implementation of the draft requires the adoption of several ministerial regulations. This proposal was presented by consensus by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. During the reading of the draft act, some additional issues were also examined in the Commission, such as the subject of § 23 (1) of the Security Authorities Act, which was recently discussed in this Chamber as well. Where a security authority uses shadow data or conspiracies, such as to conceal the ownership of an immovable property or movable property, in order to carry out or ensure the performance of its tasks, how does it proceed under that law? A representative of the Ministry of the Interior, as a representative of the Government, highlighted some of the related aspects. This is a valid regulation similar to that contained in § 754 of the Police and Border Guard Act. The cover-up of immovable and movable property is carried out by a security authority under the law, but it does not appear from this entry that it has been made by a security authority because the security authority as the carrier uses another identity. The question was that if a legal person established by security authorities using a hidden identity is loss-making or causes other bad consequences, whether the State would cover the costs incurred. The answer was that, if such a company were to be created, it would be subject to all the rules applicable to ordinary companies. If such a company with shadow data is set up, it will always be agreed on how it will behave. If the company makes a profit, of course it goes to state revenue. When drafting this draft, the Chancellor of Justice proposed that the Government of the Republic specify § 27 of the Security Authorities Act. It provides for a procedure concerning a request by a security authority to the administrative court to obtain authorisation to restrict the right to the secrecy of messages. The position of the Chancellor of Justice is that permission must be sought from the administrative court at all times before the proceedings are started. The reply of the representative of the Government of the Republic was clear: yes, this is always done before the start of a specific act, even if it is the same special scheme as § 27. It provides that, in the event of a security threat, prior authorisation shall also be obtained from the court in a manner which enables it to be reproduced in writing. The representative of the government explained that the way in which it could be reproduced in writing was also an e-mail, for example. Just this e-mail will be sent to the court in encrypted form, and the answer will also be with a specific encryption, which should prevent the disclosure of the data in the letter. The Commission was asked how many requests for authorisation under the special scheme are per year for which the authorisation will be formalised no later than the following day. The answer was that we are talking about very few cases a year, two or three cases in one year. There may also be years when such a special arrangement does not need to be implemented. And last question: last reading in this Chamber was also about changing the name of the Information Office. The name of the Information Office will be changed to the Foreign Intelligence Directorate. They asked what would be the English name of the Foreign Intelligence Directorate. This is going to be the Foreign Intelligence Service. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs took procedural decisions. The consensus proposed a second reading and, when the second one is closed, a final vote on 19 April. Vaher, Ott, Aas, Hallemaa, Padar, Madison, Laanet, Swan and Ernits voted in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U19	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Marko Mihkelson.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Unfortunately, I could not participate in the first reading of this draft. In my opinion, the most visible change for the public is the appointment of the Information Office as the Foreign Intelligence Directorate. It is quite unusual in democratic countries that the name of a foreign intelligence agency so unambiguously refers to it. Are you reminded of the Commission's discussions, which was the main argument when it was decided to turn the Information Office into the Foreign Intelligence Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U21	Thank you for your question. This issue was addressed both at first reading in this Chamber and in the Commission, and an explanation is also given in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, there are quite a number of institutions in Europe with a similar name. The Ministry of Defence and the Director General of the Information Board proposed this. The point is clearly to express the main task of the Agency, which is foreign intelligence. The Commission has discussed whether it makes sense to refer so directly to what exactly the work of this institution is. The main argument was that those persons and organisations who are very interested in this subject have long been aware of what took place in Estonia. It was thus found that there was no point in hiding it from the general public. The current Head of the Information Office, and certainly previous managers, have had to explain the content of their work every week. For the public in Estonia and also for partners in both the West and other countries, the Information Board will explain what is being dealt with, which in English is probably Information Board, or something similar to the notice board. It takes too much energy, and it makes sense to change the name. There's nothing unusual about it. There are other countries with the name of the intelligence agency that refer directly to the function performed by the agency. Why is this done in Estonia in 2017? Well, it's always a question of whether it could have been done sooner, or whether it could have been delayed now, and what name to choose. But it seems that the Director General's position is very clear, and the Department of Defense has agreed to it. That is the way the Government of the Republic will change that name before Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U22	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U23	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! To my colleague Mihkelson: The Head of the Information Office said that they are constantly being approached and asked, for example, what will be shown in the cinemas at night and how to get places at the cemetery. But that's it. Here's my question. Why is the word 'fake' replaced by a simple and clear Estonian word, in § 23 of the Security Authority Act, by the use of some shadow data and a modified identity? Pretending is a much clearer concept.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U24	Thank you for your question. This has been answered in the last paragraph of page 3 of the draft explanatory memorandum, which explains why the term 'preparation' is abandoned. Pretending means giving an impression to an individual that there is a pretending person, institution or body, but it does not really exist. A second term is now introduced, i.e. 'varieties and conspiracy', which, given the content of the paragraph, is certainly more appropriate and in accordance with Article 23 (3) of the Code of Good Lawmaking and Standardization.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U25	Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U26	Thank you. These explanations are understandable, of course, but the most important issue, which has also been raised by many experts, is precisely referring to foreign intelligence. If there is a foreign intelligence office, it's like there's an intelligence office. Democratic societies therefore have an MI6 in Britain, for example, and have a Central Intelligence Agency in the United States. It never occurred to anyone to change those names. But if that decision is made, then it will be made. But my question is focused on the future. Our very good and very professional intelligence services compete with the same people, and perhaps there are overlaps. Do you see any closer cooperation in the future between the Defence Forces Intelligence Centre and the Foreign Intelligence Service?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U27	Thank you for your question. Yeah, sure. In a small country, there is no other way to make progress. Cooperation must be well-designed and institutional "mutual assistance" well organised. Cooperation must be extremely close. There are, of course, foreign intelligence institutions in Estonia, as well as counter-intelligence institutions. There is, in itself, no contradiction here, not even in the names used. We have the Defense Police and Foreign Intelligence. The Defence Police still have additional functions that are inevitable in a small country. In large countries, there are separate bodies with specific responsibilities, budgets and management to carry out one, two and three functions. This is not feasible for the Estonian state. As we know, the situation has been resolved by the fact that counter-intelligence is not dealt with by a specific authority, but is spread between several agencies. It's a point in itself. As you know, for years now, there has been discussion about whether it would be reasonable to bring counterintelligence together in a single institution. As we know, counter-intelligence, in particular in foreign embassies, is currently managed by the Information Office and is the responsibility of the Information Office, while the rest of counter-intelligence is the competence of the Defence Police. But we will definitely come back to this at some point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U28	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U29	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have read the explanatory statement thoroughly, but still I do not understand why so simple and clear is the concept of 'pretending', which means giving the impression that a pretending person, institution or body exists, but in fact it does not exist, to replace 'variable data and changed identity' with 'variable data'? What is its deeper meaning? Is it intended to say that the Foreign Intelligence Service will not act in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U30	I think I answered your previous question exhaustively. This amendment is justified in the explanatory memorandum. In my opinion, too, 'variant data and conspiracy techniques' are a clear and unambiguous formulation of what § 23. I believe that this is a valid amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U31	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations on the draft provisions. It's not recommended. In that case, we will examine the amendment. One amendment has been tabled, it is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of it. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 383 SE be terminated. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U32	Third item: First reading of the draft law on supporting local democracy initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party 388. The rapporteur is Jüri Adams, member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have fallen under the obligation to present to you the draft law initiated by the Free Party Group, entitled 'The Law on Support for Local Democracy', its content, and to answer all the questions that you may have about it. I start with the fact that, in technical terms, democracy is called a state organisation where various elections are periodically held. As a rule, they take place at intervals. In Estonia, it is common practice that this period is four or five years. We experimented in local elections once in three years, which turned out to be too short a period. Another feature of democracy is that elections result in changes in the membership of various representative bodies, including among the leading persons. The question of what democracy in our country is going through elections and the results of elections, is the content of this draft. We are based on the opinion that not everything is right in Estonia in the field of elections and democracy, but the situation is not quite hopeless either. In general, however, we believe that tendencies are bad rather than good, and worst of all: mistakes made in the past have been settled over a very long period, at least in the last 12 years. The main problem is that these errors have become an obstacle to attempts to reshape the future. The idea of the draft is to propose one solution for one only! The most important group of mistakes made in the development of our independence. This solution is certainly not the only option, but it is what we have considered necessary at the moment. In the case of this draft, it should begin with the fact that, of those present in this Chamber, perhaps only Andres Ammas remembers the times of the Supreme Council. Maybe there's someone else, I don't know. But most of you have never seen such a type of bill in your life. For many years, most recently since Estonia became a member of the European Union, we have not had any comprehensive drafts drawn up outside the government's system. As a rule, we will have drafts according to one particular scheme. There are actually two options. One is that we are harmonising our laws with the Euro Directives, which I think is a particularly cynical method of rubber stamping. I don't think everyone should agree with me. But generally, the drafts are written by ministries. They go on a long round of coordination and the opinion has developed that if anything is done in the Riigikogu with drafts, these are some last-minute improvements, for example, somebody will notice that a comma or a large and small initial error has been made somewhere. The Riigikogu then corrects such errors of writing and slaps rubber on top of the stamp. The administrative reform law adopted during this membership is a good example. But how will the bill develop outside this circle? They have their own rules. During the times of the VII, VIII and IX Riigikogu it was still quite common that many important draft laws came from outside and were greatly changed during the proceedings of the Riigikogu, often unknown. However, when such a bill was adopted as a law, the results persisted for a long time. As a good example, during the VII Riigikogu, the Member of Parliament, Arvo Vallikiv, named Valton, collected signatures from more than 50 members of the Riigikogu and presented a text entitled 'Against Corruption Act'. He has not told me where this text came from, but I have serious doubts that this text was drafted primarily by his son, Hannes Vallikivi, who is currently chairman of the Bar Association, and his associates. During the procedure, this bill changed a great deal. But what's important is that he stays in the core until now and does a good job. What's changed is that over the years, she's been pulled out of her sharp teeth, so she's pretty toothless right now. But at least that's the law if there's nothing. The draft, as we are presenting to you now, is born in a process that I would call a collective draft. First of all, there is the idea that such a legislative initiative is needed. Then a member of the group has come up with a concept and made a preliminary draft of the draft law. It has been discussed collectively in three or four circles, the amendments proposed are not only included by the members of the group, not only by the party's specialists, but also by the various other people who have been drawn into the work or who have wanted to come on their own. And that's what this is all about. The difference between such a text and a draft coming from a typical ministry is that it is much shorter. Such short texts of the full law have not come from ministries in the last 12 years. What's the difference? But it is precisely because there are a lot of things in the system of state where it is not at all possible to say whether one, the other, the third, the fourth or the fiftyth method must be applied. This is a matter of rationality and will be decided in the course of the work. So for drafts of this kind, the most typical is that there are loose ends, where you can always ask how one or the other political idea is then brought to an end. The answer is that there are many options and it is very difficult for one small group to predict what the best detailed decision is. Here, it makes sense to take a little digression. We are currently in the government, and Mr Reinsalu was also the Minister of Justice in the previous government. During the last year, Mr Reinsalu has reported to us at least two times from this very speaking board that it is very important in Estonia to achieve that there are not so many minor legislative changes. We have hundreds a year of this figure, I think, more than 300 of the relatively non-essential, finishing changes to the law. I have tried to explain to him before that the main reason for this is the so-called long laws. Apart from the laws, all the details that may be so, whether or not in the third way, and put them on the shoulders of those implementing the law, so that they decide which way is right, it would not be the problem that the Riigikogu has to deal with these minor changes. If Reinsalu were not so schizophrenic that he advocates one goal, but, at the same time, he and his colleagues are working in the opposite direction in the government's day-to-day activities, he might like our draft. If we had a Minister for Justice who wanted to reduce work hard on minor legislative changes, the only way to do this would be to cut short the laws and, in the future, to draw up only short draft laws that are important. The Riigikogu would be excluded from the work of the Riigikogu. So much for an introduction. The Free Party formed and was elected to the Riigikogu largely because of one topic. It wasn't our only subject, but it was a very important subject. The problem is the state funding of political parties. We have said and are still saying that the model of financing politics in Estonia is bad is vicious. It needs to be changed to take at least two steps forward. The first step is that public funding needs to be reduced very much at all. Our initial proposal to you, members of the Riigikogu, was that we jointly decide to reduce the public funding of political parties. At present, the state is paying political parties EUR 5.4 million per year, which means that for each of us our political parties will receive just over EUR 53000 per year. We could halve that amount. Secondly, the rules for the use of the remaining amount should be reasonably established: to say what this money can and cannot be used for, plus reporting things. Unfortunately, we have found little support for this proposal. We are pleased that the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has, in principle, supported us, but the four older groups, which are quite often called cartel parties in Estonia, have taken the idea rather marginally. Now, however, we have another proposal, which does not mean that we abandon the first proposal. Our main proposal is that if this is not acceptable to the large parties now, let us take a'shorter step'. Just as teacher Laur 'Spring' told Toots that if you can't make two repairs, you should do at least one. That's the one. The political content of this adjustment would be to put much less money at the disposal of the leaders of our political parties: at least a quarter less than today. However, this amount of money would go into policy support, but it would be distributed according to agreed rules at local government election level. This, of course, is not the only way. We can also come up with options three and four. The basic political message that I want to say here is that no matter how unpleasant this idea is to cartel parties, Estonia must never reduce the amount of bathing in this kind of money. However, this needs to be addressed. All right, if you're not ready now, let's just wait another year. We're gonna wait another year. We're gonna have another election. But one day it will end because the situation that your political parties have encountered is in some ways comparable to that of an established drug addict. You can't give up your daily slap with public money, but if you're told we're going to rehab, you're gonna say, "No, no, no, no! We're not going to rehab. ' And everything goes on the same way. Perhaps some have not understood why we consider this over-funding of political parties to be particularly bad. This, of course, started with the fact that there were many young people in the political parties who wanted to work for the parties, but they needed income to support their families. This is how it went in Estonia. There are quite a number of parties in the rest of the world who have no paid staff at all. But all right, we could still accept that. However, the main problem with the 2003 amendment was that the money was already given so much that it could be used to pay debts. Following the 2003 elections, at least two political parties went into debt: one was a newcomer, Res Publica, and the other was a Central Party. Later, when funding has increased to such an extent, it has become the norm that the electoral campaign will be made in debt and that these debts will be paid with public subsidies for the coming years. The most tragic situation in recent elections was the IRL, because the money placed in the campaign, especially on the front pages of the Juhan Parts print papers, did not produce the expected results. We should get out of that trap. 2003 was a record year in Estonian history for making major and very bad mistakes. This relates to the government formed by the winner of these elections, Res Publica, led by Juhan Parts, currently operating in Europe. It has to be said that many of these people, who became key players in making these mistakes, are still in power. One person who is guilty of moral guilt that, in one year, the amount of funding for political parties was increased three times as much as we have never had in any other area, has now left the policy of Taavi Veskimägi, who was then Minister of Finance. A number of people in the Riigikogu made this change, including Urmas Reinsalu, then chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, whom I mentioned earlier. Urmas Reinsalu's career as a political thinker has been remarkably characterized by the fact that he has many non-systemic ideas and complete inability to anticipate the bad consequences of these ideas. He probably didn't see in 2003 what kind of trouble it all came from, that he gladly helped the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to write that provision into the law. The young Minister of Justice, Ken-Marti Vaher, also stood out at the time, who organised the removal from electoral laws of any norms or restrictions that would prevent the juggle of the elections. At the same time, it should be noted that, at a later stage, it has become apparent that the subsequent setbacks, which were carried out under his leadership, have in general been more or less eradicated by law. So that's the current state of affairs. I'm out of time for my report. Hopefully there will also be questions, so I can go to the details of the content of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U34	Thank you very much, dear waitress. You have questions. Before that, I would like to remind you that, under § 67 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur also has the opportunity, in agreement with the President of the sitting, to have additional time. Mr Adams didn't use it right now, but I'm sure you'll do the same report a few times. The first question is asked by Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I look at this bill rather than a fictional act, not a bill. But the questions still arise. What is local democracy? What is the difference between non-local democracy and local non-democracy? How did that thing get in? And what is meant by § 3 (3), which ends with the words 'under a separate law'? I've never seen a pair of words like the'separate law' in the formulation of some legal provisions. What's a separate law? Or, for example, paragraph 2 of the following section, starting with the words: 'One of the starting points of the operating support institution is... ' What is an operating grant institution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U36	Thank you, Mr. Stalnukhin! I am happy to answer you because you are giving me the opportunity to further clarify the things I have said at least once. Local democracy, which is in this title of the law, is not a technical concept, but understandable as I said at the beginning of my presentation: it is local elections, participation in them, preparation for them, communication with the electorate, etc. You say you've never seen such laws before. I must introduce these laws to you, at least during the last Supreme Council and also during the VII and VIII Riigikogu. I think you've been here since the IX Riigikogu. I remember you loved to taunt me about my reports. Every time I said something you didn't like, you took the floor and said, "Adams, get out of the tree! ' It is a figure that must have expressed the idea that my 'political perceptions' and my working skills are not on today's level. I'll remember it for the rest of my life. If I ever have the opportunity to write memoirs, I will note this as one of the most pleasant personal experiences I have had in the Riigikogu. It's kind of poetic. But the answer to your second question is that it was quite common during these periods that all laws were written in two parts. The law was like this and then another law, which was the law of its first implementation. So there's nothing unusual about it. I am not sure whether something like this has happened in the last formations, during the last three or four Riigikogus. But I am happy to say that there is such an opportunity and that this solution has worked quite well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U37	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It seems to me that there were a lot of aspects not to mention, both within this bill and in the areas bordering it. I am happy to offer you an opportunity to elaborate on the details and to mention a few important keywords. Since the electoral alliances have been tried to be banned, this problem is acute. The financial capacity of the local electoral lists depends on whether it is a political party list or an independent list. How do issues such as the size of the electoral community, the number of mandates to be shared, perhaps the length of the lists, deal with this issue? I'm sure the esteemed waitress knows there are still these problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U39	Thank you, Mr. Herkel. It is true that there were no major problems during and during the elections to the VII and VIII Riigikogu in the field of democracy and elections in Estonia, no matter how little technically completed at the time. Well, basically, whoever wanted to apply got to run. All you had to do was bail. Political parties could also apply to the Riigikogu not only with their own lists, but also with common lists. For example, the Estonian National Independence Party and the Fatherland entered the IX Riigikogu with a common electoral list. It was considered quite normal. IX Since the Riigikogu, the weakening of Estonian electoral democracy began. First, the electoral alliances of political parties were banned, and then the list of competitors was blocked. The years of the crisis were undoubtedly 2001 and 2002, when an attempt was made by political parties and the then Mart Laar coalition government to take away the right to submit local lists of candidates at all in local elections. It had to remain the law of the parties alone. I do not have enough time to talk about it, but the long struggle that was led by Chancellor Allar Jõks at the time ended with local electoral federations becoming possible, even though they must compete with political parties in a rather unequal situation. The same issue of inequality of financial opportunities, to which I have already referred, arose. Those errors should be corrected. However, the issue of money, however important it may seem, is, in my view, less important for the development and future of the country than the fact that there is a strong passive right to vote. It is a legal term for who has the right to set up candidates' lists and how. If we could do it, it would be very good. The second thing Mr Herkel mentioned is the question of the size of the constituencies. This will be critical for us in the autumn of this year, but it has not been much to pay attention to. At the beginning of the 1990s, the rule of Estonian law was that electoral districts should not exceed 15 mandates. Then this number began to get bigger and bigger, as a result of the uprooting initiated by the Reform Party, until at one point the whole thing was turned upside down, and now we have in law the text that several electoral circles may only exist if there are at least 50000 inhabitants in the municipality. Unfortunately, the proportional electoral system we use is no longer working very well in the large electoral circles. Rein Taagepera taught in his time that the five mandates are the best solution, a little more may also be. We had 15 mandates in law, but now there are 49 in Tartu, which is pretty absurd. Obviously, in our country, people who have dealt with electoral issues do not perceive problems or threats in this area. So, for the autumn local elections, most of the connected municipalities go in a situation where the number of mandates for new councils is in the middle of 30, from 25 to 35, about that range. And there's only one constituency. There are two major problems with these circles. One is that local activists, especially when they have acted on the basis of small merged municipalities, have virtually no chance of being elected. The dominant or dominant parties are likely to increase their role in the new councils. Doing what I called Ansip at the conference in Tartu on Saturday. It doesn't have to be called that, but the point is that the list of candidates is built up on the principle that a very well-known person, whether local or not, is put at the top. He is probably not local, he is a member of the Riigikogu. I think that many of you, too, will have such a function in the autumn elections, as will ministers. There will be a campaign among the voters to cast all votes by this number one. This was the case in the Tartu elections, where the Ansip phenomenon began. The Reform Party then received about 13,000 votes in the city of Tartu after one of the four constituencies, and Andrus Ansip as the extremely popular mayor of over 9,000 votes. All the following people, who were elected to the council, received a maximum of a few hundred votes. This method is not good for proportional elections. Then we should start asking why we don't use one-mandated major circles like English and American. These are three important issues in the area of democracy in the coming years. How to make sure that people can reasonably submit candidates' lists. This is a question for the Riigikogu. I wouldn't be afraid if we had more small factions here. If a large number of people do not see lists representing the right mindset, the people will become frustrated, and I think this is more dangerous to the political future. We have, at least in cities, a quite large frame of local activists, who are currently reluctant to sell themselves into small nuts at the end of the large party lists. These people need to have a chance at the council. And one important step is the harmonisation of financial opportunities, which is also the content of this draft. We also need to think about what money is being spent on. The money is spent to a large extent on election campaign ads. The state could take on this, many countries have done so to free political parties from a larger proportion of such expenditure and provide an opportunity to use the state's media resources to this end to an agreed extent. I would point out that in the Republic of Latvia, this is the way it is organised and there is no need for political parties to buy broadcast time from private television channels during the campaign for hundreds of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U40	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U41	Good manager! Good waitress! I don't think you're a monkey to climb down a tree. But you've brought in 106000 euros for your party in two years. That means someone could have bought a Humvee or a decent apartment. Now you want to halve it. But here's my question. As you propose to support the local entities of political parties alongside individuals and electoral associations, you have certainly taken into account how much would go to the so-called cartel parties to support them in the other way. Your plan is to start supporting the Lasnamäe Central Party Division, downtown and many others with the money taken from you and all of us. How much money would come back to these parties like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U42	The truth is that all of us, you, me and everyone else in this Chamber, including those who are currently not present, are bringing in some EUR 53000 each year to our political parties. But that's not the problem. We have two fundamental questions: who are the people in the political parties who decide what this money is spent on? For example, Peter Ernitsa and I, the representative of the people, have basically no right to have any say in what is being done with this money. The decision-making processes are obviously different in the political parties. Maybe somebody's gonna decide it's the chairman of a party, somebody's secretary-general, somebody's board. In my opinion, one important fact is that we are not quite insignificant in that sense, that our party receives this money thanks to us. We should have the right to have a say on how to use this money. But that's our right now as well as it isn't. And our political parties have no rules on which money can be spent and on which money cannot be spent. But the question was about Lasnamäe. This draft suggests that the main mechanism for supporting local democracy has received seats on the councils to support the groups of ambassadors with EUR 2 per vote per year. This amount is, of course, a matter of political decision. I know there's a voice pricing system in Latvia. In Latvia, less than ten years ago, regulation was introduced that the parties represented in Parliament received half a euro, i.e. 50 euro cents per vote per year. To date, if I am not mistaken, it has risen to 83 euro cents. Another country where this principle is used in a rather complex system is Germany. In Germany, there are two different systems to be financed on the basis of the price of votes. One is based on the results of the Bundestag elections, there is a sum of two euros or a little less. In the case of the Landtags, or the national parliaments of the Länder, this money is determined differently in each of the Länder. I have calculated that in Germany, about 2.5 euros per year will be received for the vote received by the federal parliament in elections. It is about 9 euros a year in Estonia. But if we go back to Lasnamäe, when we discussed this draft in committee, the members of the committee immediately made a calculation and put forward such a pleasantly attacking question. Let's imagine that one person, let's assume that his name is Savisaar, Edgar, is running for local elections in Lasnamägi and gets 40,000 votes there. If the draft of the Free Party were miraculously to become a law, this vigilante would be able to make an annual amount of EUR 80,000 available for political work. It's a serious question, and I really like it. You see, in the Constitutional Assembly there was also a pretty limited speaking time on this remote control, I think it was a maximum of seven minutes, or even less, if we are given a speech right now. But in seven minutes, it's gonna be really hard to explain something thoroughly to anyone or convince anyone. Several members of the Constitutional Assembly, especially the late Illar Hallaste, began to use such a method that they took the contested proposal and developed it in some way to an extreme or absurd degree. That's to show you why it doesn't fit. This hypothetical example that the Ambassador of Lasnamäe will receive EUR 80000 is not, in principle, unacceptable to me. Because that's not what this is about. Right now, this money is being put at the disposal of the central bodies of his party, and it is being used in the same way. But if that's a problem, then there's always a way to set some amount limits in the law. If this is politically unacceptable, then there is another way to do it. Why not, it's a question of discussing, like all the new things that are being offered in this world. In fact, it is not very important what is good that it seeks. The main question is still the undesirable side effects that could result from this. If I have to decide whether to prevent one hypothetical national ambassador from receiving 80000 euros a year to carry out his political work, or whether all the other members of the councils of Estonian governments can do nothing at all, then I say that the lesser evil is based on the principle that as long as this ambassador receives something. Neither the city of Tallinn nor Lasnamäe are very important for Estonia's future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U43	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U44	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable penguin and waitress! In many ways, I agree with you. I am also a believer in local development and local democracy. However, I agree that the draft should have explained what is meant by local democracy in this context. However, my questions are specific and concern § 4 - Purposeful use of operational support. Paragraph 2 of this paragraph states that one of the starting points for the operating grant institution is that I comment on it, I do not ask that it is not well suited to the context of this law as a different paragraph, it is such a declaratory matter that the working conditions, tools and other necessary guarantees of the local government council and executive agencies are the responsibility of the municipality itself and they finance it themselves. So what's in the operating grant? How do you figure out what this "other" is? Next, paragraph 3, there's actually...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U45	Ladies and gentlemen, You have two questions. The answer is not limited, but you have one minute to ask a question. Please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U46	What can I say here? In the case of state support, there are two questions: the question of the amount and the question of how to use it, as they are not regulated in any way in Estonia. We have a pretty good audit body called the Political Financing Monitoring Commission. Its reports show what political parties have spent their money on. The extent to which these data are true is, of course, a problem in itself. I think that, after 2003, and in particular the ban on the donation of legal persons, double accounts and any figures that are presented are unreliable again. When we are talking about financing local government policy, I believe that there should be a list in the law that should not be spent on. That is a matter of principle. Latvian law states in quite detail what can be spent on and not spent on. This list is page after page. We wrote down a little sample list. What exactly should be included, that is what we were arguing about among ourselves, and if the draft is to be further processed, it will certainly be one very important point of discussion. We do not think that by four we must necessarily approve such a list. We still need most of the decision behind it. What you were talking about does not really have any important regulatory significance. This paragraph is of illustrative importance and says that this money should not be used to support office premises and that there are laser printers and I do not know what everything there is today. In supporting local democracy, the main aim should be to communicate with the voters and other residents of your municipality. It is quite difficult to put this into legal language, but if it is a miracle that we work together to clarify this draft, we will be open to all reasonable proposals to make it even better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that during the first round of proceedings, you will be able to ask two oral questions, both in substance and in form. The Chair shall closely monitor that there are no practically two or three questions on a formal basis. Take a second chance, if necessary, and then we can move forward as we have agreed on our home and working arrangements law. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U48	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good George! First of all, thank you for another example of a new approach. I do not think it is important to go into the details; here in the Riigikogu we need to offer political solutions and choices. One option is to start financing not according to the number of ambassadors, but to introduce the price of the vote. Can you give examples of where such a system is used? Do you think that the basis of the funding system could be changed as a result of Riigikogu elections? In addition, as you said, the goal of using money in a democratic country is important. Civil society organisations must also present their budgets and reports on their spending. Do you think that the Riigikogu elections could result in the same goal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U49	I'll start at the very end. In my opinion, the state's monetary decisions differ from those of private companies and individuals in the sense that the state should not give money to anyone without laying down the conditions under which this money is used. We can all go across the square to the Russian church and put all our possessions in the beggar hat sitting there. But the state doesn't have that right. This is a question of regularity, as well as one aspect of the state budget procedure. As far as the distribution of money by the number of votes is concerned, I haven't really done that much, and I don't know where to get that information either. Perhaps the Legal and Analytical Department of the Riigikogu could ask for this. I know that this issue has already been discussed in the Riigikogu once. This was during the IX Riigikogu, when the Constitutional Committee, the vice-chairman of which was Liia Hänni, dealt with the party law, which was then relatively simple and relatively uncontroversial compared to the present one. In the Commission, the question arose as to whether we should switch to setting the price of the vote. At the time, a vote took place in the Chamber of the Riigikogu at some stage of the discussion of the bill, I think that this was the case, and with some number of votes this proposal was rejected. But there's nothing very new about that. I really do not know for sure at the moment to name another third country using such a method. I certainly know what it is in Latvia, and I know basically what it is in Germany, but I think there should be more. The various other support systems vary widely between countries. You see, there are a lot of things in Estonia that have developed in general and systemically. Our country has just been restored relatively recently, some even remember this time, and that is why it is difficult for us to imagine that in most of the older countries these support systems have developed gradually and are likely to have taken a wide range of decisions over about a hundred years. One quite typical method of supporting political parties is that not so much the parties themselves are supported, but the foundations that organise the theoretical, ideological and electoral campaign with them. This is the case, for example, with the Stiftungs there in Germany, in Sweden, and is also a relatively archaic example, such as today's Finland, where state subsidies are primarily intended to help party newspapers to survive. Finland is very unusual. Finland is about as it was in Estonia before World War II: every major party has at least one national newspaper and maybe several locals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U50	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U51	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! Fortunately, one necessary and interesting body has been established in Estonia, the Commission for the Supervision of Financing of Political Parties. What role do you see in this institution's practical supervision of political parties? What role could this committee now play in the light of this draft? Does he relate to the idea of a bill? Does he relate to the institution mentioned in the draft explanatory memorandum? There are still untapped opportunities for this Commission that have not been realised for some reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U52	This body developed in years when I was a long way from politics. I was sick and did not pay much attention to what was happening. I don't really know the details. I understand that there is a realization that there must be some kind of control, a monitoring organ. What it should be and how great its powers are, it is a common dispute. At least for the time being, this solution did not seem to make much sense. Perhaps it would be best for the structure of the Estonian state if it were a separate department of the National Audit Office. Unfortunately, there is such a mentality in the National Audit Office that it has been excluded from taking any new tasks. In particular, there is no intention to deal with specific controls. They use the word 'audit', which has gone the way they do today. It's not about auditing, it's about auditing, whatever that word means. But this solution might have been better. However, there are two things that have stood out for this committee. Firstly, a number of very noble and prominently professional people have come to work in this monitoring committee. I remember that as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the VII Riigikogu, Ardo Ojasalu made an indelible impression on me, and I think it is not just me. Several other people have also said that. At the same time, it must be said that there have been two clear shortcomings. One thing is that the staff of this committee have been weak and few. They certainly do not have the technical or legal capacity to carry out their tasks. They deal randomly with one and the other, mainly asking the parties for financial reports, putting up these reports online and happy to answer questions about one, another or third thing. But let's ask, what are the debts of election campaigns? They are unable to answer that question because the parties provide data differently. I have not met everyone, but the grand master of the so-called yokk-answers of Estonian politics has undoubtedly been the Reform Party. The ability of this party to split legal hair has been remarkable. The public was most impressed when the so-called Silver Meikari scandal broke out. As far as I know, the Reform Party, with the help of its lawyers, has shaped the view that if someone owes someone, but the debt term has not yet arrived, such as the deadline of 1 January next year, that is not the case in their report. The debt has not yet become so-called pay-up mature. They start to record it as debt after 2 January. Another party treats debt less legally and 'common people's senses'. At the time of writing this draft, the question arose that if we create a new institution such as the financial support for local democracy in Estonia, it is necessary that there should be at least one state institution, but perhaps also several state institutions that will deal directly with it. In principle, the State can decide to share the responsibilities of the State between any authority and in any way. It's basically nothing to us, too. But based on the content, there are currently no other groups of people in Estonia who are more closely involved in this area. It is therefore natural to ask whether it would not be reasonable, from the point of view of existing skills and experience, if the new parts of the work would essentially be taken up by the same Commission. And he does not necessarily have to be with the Riigikogu; he may also be somewhere else. And I'm sure we could use some extra staff there. Of course, we talked to the people who are currently engaged in this committee and asked how they felt when the Free Party proposed, in the draft, to reform, to expand, to give them new, more important and more precise tasks. The main answer we received was that there would be no fierce protest. In their opinion, the proposal is completely complex; it could be a reasonable step forward. In comparison, I will bring back Latvia. We passed the Corruption Act, according to which there were no officials in Estonia whose main task would be to deal with corruption matters. In Latvia, the opposite was the case. A small anti-corruption office was established there. It is called the Office for Preventing and Combating Corruption. The Latvian abbreviation is KNAB. This office was given the function of organising, monitoring and advising the use of political parties and state funds. As far as I know, the Latvian state and the public are quite satisfied with the results of the office's work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U53	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! At the beginning of your speech, in the very introduction, you said that the trends concerning democracy are more worrying and bad than good. Now what is this bill trying to change? What if it ties in with the overall democratic process in the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U55	The general answer is that I am not very optimistic. If this bill were miraculously to become a law with any change, but the basic political idea would remain the same, if it didn't solve Estonia's democratic problems yet, but something could still be much better. If we have larger municipalities and we continue with the same system that allows citizens' electoral alliances, then it must be taken into account that electoral alliances have been quite well-functioning in smaller municipalities. However, if there should be a single electoral community in larger municipalities, they will have a problem of no longer being able to go from door to door and from voter to voter, but of using other campaign methods that require more money. In principle, it is also currently written in Estonian law that the money received by political parties must not be used to support their own lists in local elections. Unfortunately, this ban does not work in practice. I don't know exactly how it will be implemented technically and legally, but in fact, political parties spend a significant amount of their money on local election campaigns. Whether they are campaigning national support or somehow carrying this money through intermediates or providing some kind of direct support, I do not know. This must have been in 2007, when I was able to report on public funding here, thanks to a kind invitation from the Socialists, during the debate on a matter of national importance. At the time, I tried to do some research in preparation. I spoke to the secretaries-general of all the political parties and other important people behind the tent whom I knew, and I asked how this really works. They said that it would be much easier to organise elections to the Riigikogu than to organise local election campaigns and that the sum of the sum will be much more expensive for local election campaign parties than the Riigikogu election campaign. The main statement was that the costs of a typical Estonian party in local elections and Riigikogu elections can be expressed in a ratio of 1.25 : 1. So local elections are a fifth more expensive. How this money really works, I don't know what to say. But the political problem comes back to 2001, when Mart Laar's government made a deal behind the tent with opposition parties, at least with the Centre Party, or was this tacit agreement between us to ban the local lists and take everyone who wants to act on the ground into their political party lists. It didn't really work out then, but it gave a boost to Res Publica. At present, the situation seems to be that the largest group of local elections are concentrated on the list of political parties. I say that being on the list of political parties is a largely enforced situation for local politicians. Somehow they've been bought up. If there were a completely free choice, very many of those currently elected to the councils through the local lists of political parties would probably shrug their shoulders and say that we actually want to be ourselves and why we should not simply cooperate freely with this mother party. Our idea is, in some way, the release of political party addicts and perhaps even local politicians who are easily enslaved. This problem of enslavement is complicated at all. We are, to a large extent, slaves of our political parties, but here in the Riigikogu, we are slaves of the political groups. Theoretically, we have the right to act as selfishly as we want, but that is not the way it works in practice. This is part of a very important issue of how much freedom of application and conduct still exist in our democratic political system. I'm saying these things are far from right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U56	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U57	Thank you, Mr President. We can read the Külliki Hatter's response in the Commission's minutes. He said that electoral associations operate under the current legislation on the basis of a partnership agreement and have no legal responsibility, but it is important that electoral associations also have legal personality when operating grants are implemented. This means that it is like the Free Party of Democracy that electoral alliances are given legal personality and become utilities parties. George, your people are running for election lists. This gives the members of the Free Party the opportunity to receive additional funding in the form of operating grants in order to prepare for the elections of the Riigikogu. Why have you chosen such a dark and undemocratic path?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U58	Thank you! It is such a doubt that the particularly insidious idea of our draft is that the Free Party can also secretly stick its hand deep in the national purse. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But even if that were to be the case, it would be a very distant opportunity for the future. So I don't think it's very likely. As far as the Commission's protocol is concerned, there are a number of issues that should be discussed with those who have acted or are currently acting on the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Riigikogu. The Law of Obligations Act was made in Estonia once. A partnership agreement is also mentioned among the various types of contract in this law. At the time, the association was not a matter of itself, but of the absence of something, namely the lack of legal personality. If, for some reason, a group of people decides to act together and to make common financial expenses, the lawyer calls it a partnership. They themselves call it whatever they call it, or they don't call it at all, it doesn't matter. In the intervening years, various people have, perhaps Mrs Pikhof knows better, what happened here, then, to this concept of fellowship twisted and given to it meanings that were not originally meant to be. I do not know what Külliki Hatter of the Group said exactly on the committee and what the Protocoler noted. But I want to draw attention to two things. One is the theoretical question, which is why the lists of candidates in local elections may not be placed either by individual legal entities, I think, non-profit legal entities or by several legal entities jointly. There is no answer to that. The Free Party Group has the opinion that non-profit legal entities could have the right to set up local electoral lists. I am not optimistic that we will still achieve this goal in this Riigikogu, but if Mrs Pikhof and others help us, we could try. The second thing is that the madness of setting up legal persons began after the end of the Soviet era mainly on a trivial issue: namely how to get a bank account. As an individual, we can go to any bank and ask you to make an account for me, but how can we do this with the gang? As a rule, banks tell us to bring us proof that you are a legal person. So the people who have formed local electoral alliances under the current law say that one of their main problems is that they are not getting a bill at the bank. By the way, in the case of a partnership, it is perfectly normal for a group to use a bank account that one of them has specifically opened for this purpose. Legally, it seems perfect. In the case of associations, another legally ideal solution is the so-called joint and several responsibility. If one such group, which does not have legal personality, owes to anyone, the creditor may claim the debt from any of the individual members of that group , and to the full extent of the debt. How the debt is then distributed is a matter between the members of the group. I tried to answer that question in general. I think that, if nothing very unusual happens, the laws currently in force before the local elections in October will not be changed. At least I don't see that the government coalition in power shows a great desire to expand some kind of regulation in a hurry. These things must continue to be dealt with. But this idea of partnership in the local electoral union, as a non-legal person or in the legal language, apparently arose as a political compromise when Allar Jõks fought his fight for the preservation of the electoral alliances. On the one hand, it was said that there were no local lists, and on the other they were requested. Then a compromise was found, which is not perfect for itself. There is no solution, but the more distress has somehow been driven away by the imperfect institution of the local electoral alliances. In any case, at the local level, we have a significantly better democratic position than at the level of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U59	Andrei Novikov.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Your draft provides, in essence, for the establishment of a system similar to the Riigikogu's cost benefits at the local level, i.e. on the council level. In the past, you have described the Riigikogu's cost benefit system from the same remote control as follows: 'This is how we lose respect for the Estonian state and also the support of our voters. From the point of view of the Free Party, if there is such an alternative, whether the infinite horror continues or whether it is possible to make a terrible end, then we are rather in favour of a horrible end. ' Don't you think you're going against your earlier principles with this bill? Or is it that your earlier principles have not changed and previous initiatives are motivated by other goals, often considered populist?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U61	If my goals could be called populist, it would sound quite commendable. I've heard all kinds of assessments, maybe that's the most interesting. At the same time, I do not see the crazy popularity that I, or my partymates, could achieve in any electoral group. Actually, there's no contradiction here. The comparison with the Riigikogu cost benefits is not quite accurate. The Riigikogu's cost benefit system is that we are making some kind of expenditure on which we claim that they have been related and necessary to the work of the Riigikogu. Then we will submit the relevant expenditure documents to the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, who will have to assess them on the basis of the guidelines in force and then make us a refund. This is not the system we have proposed. Our offer is the opposite. We do not expect representatives of the local electoral union, representatives of the local party unit or individual candidates to make some kind of expenditure and then bill someone to compensate for it. Rather, a certain amount should be received by someone, i.e. a bank account, and it should be spent according to need and decision-making procedures. So the resemblance is just that some money is moving. I am happy to address this issue of cost benefits once more. I have had the opportunity to deal with this a little bit in previous Riigikogu formations. I've been studying how it went before World War II. Before World War II, the Riigikogu also had cost benefits, but they were paid to a very limited extent. For example, when someone went on a business trip as a representative of the Riigikogu. Let's say the Board of the Riigikogu decided to send someone to Denmark to represent the Riigikogu at some conference. Then it was quite possible that the cost had been reimbursed. Current cost benefits started at the end of the Soviet era, in the Supreme Council, where there were several types of cost benefits. Some of them have receded, such as the cost of representation, which meant money to buy a suit or a representative dress, but the cost of taxis and other transports remains. But in some period, mostly just after 2003, there was an explosion in the area of cost benefits. Since this led to strange misunderstandings and even scandals, which were also reflected in the press, it has recently been pulled back. The main issue is, however, the question of MEPs' remuneration. There are two ways. One is that MEPs are paid quite a large, perhaps even unusually high, salary and that all the expenditure related to your work is borne by you yourself from that salary. Another option is to pay relatively low wages and to say that all the costs arising from the work will be reimbursed. Both things are done in Estonia at the same time. I mean, it's greed squared: it's a lot of money, it's insultingly high in the eyes of most of our fellow citizens, and at the same time there's also cost benefits. In this dispute, the technically most difficult problem is the rule that was decided at the time of the Constitution. I mean that any changes to the regime can only be made in advance: the current composition of the Riigikogu can make changes for the next composition. It's never worked. This has never worked, as such changes have usually started to be thought about six months before the end of the Riigikogu's mandate and, if anything has been tried, have generally not been completed. My personal opinion, which I have repeatedly expressed, is that the purpose of the Constitution was still to deny Parliament an arbitrary increase in its own income. They say if you increase your income, it'll be for the next setup. In my opinion, it is not the correct legal interpretation that Parliament must under no circumstances reduce the amount of money allocated to itself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U62	Helmut Hallemaa, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U63	Thank you, good vice chairman. A good colleague as a waitress! Time wears off, joys in asking questions remain, albeit to a limited extent. I'm going where I left off. First, two small comments. Advertising costs, which you talked about for a very long time, are not going anywhere under this bill. Secondly, Mr Ernits interpreted the numbers so that the parties now receive EUR 5.4 million, but according to the regulation of this law in 2013, they would have received EUR 1.25 million, or about a fifth, so much less than was mentioned here. However, my question concerns paragraph 3 of § 4 'Sustainable use of operational support', where it is quite interesting to say that, among other things, operating aid is not allowed to be spent for this purpose and, secondly, for this purpose. But where does this main list say? My question, however, is the same in paragraph 5, which states that this money cannot be used to create or maintain paid jobs. Is the contract work included in this? For example, when we foresee advertising research, it is a contract work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U64	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U65	Good manager! Good speaker! I have such a substantive, formal question. You have stated as the objective of the draft that the law must introduce a new system of subsidies. The objectives of the new laws are usually formulated in a more strategic way. Just an arbitrary example: The General Part of the Environmental Code Act aims to reduce environmental disruptions, the Copyright Act aims to ensure the continuity of culture, the protection of cultural achievements, etc. In the explanatory memorandum, you say that the purpose of this draft is a fairer system. If your general view is that all these state subsidies for political parties are Satan at all and should be abolished, and I generally share the view that they prevent democracy rather than extend it, then why do you think that moving these subsidies to the local level will strengthen democracy on the ground?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U66	Mr. Kross, obviously you had other things to do, so you haven't been there the whole time I've been on the remote. So I need to repeat a few things. I am not quite sure that the state should not have to allocate any money to this. It's all history. When Estonia's independence had been restored, we had one period in which the political parties had very different financial opportunities. We had political forces who used the black cashiers of Soviet institutions as a basis for their political action, and there were others who came from the anti-communist opposition. There were youth groups that I'm sure you encountered, and who had to come up with different methods. The next period was when political parties formed their own structures and had a need to support them. It was not yet possible to do so through personal donations or membership fees for members of the party. The time wasn't yet. Most people were very poor, and the parties had few wealthy donors. That was when there was an objective need for state financial assistance. How far have we come now? We have reached a situation where obtaining and receiving private donations has become secondary. On the contrary, in some political parties it has disappeared, and in others it has disappeared. I agree, in principle, with you, and with Mr Gräzini, that we should try to revive these subsidies. It's not good if there aren't any. It is, among other things, a question of information. We will never know what they really want or think of us if we cannot measure it with the financial support we receive. The next question is that, if Estonian society is now much richer, should we not start using this type of mass small grant collection to fund politics, as is now usual. By the way, during the first Republic of Estonia, before World War II, political parties financed themselves to a large extent from two sources: first, there was a profit from publishing newspapers, and second, there were collections made at all kinds of concerts and performances. It's different these days. For example, call the number xxz and donate 25 euros, call the other number and donate 5 euros. I mean, you could try to keep doing these things. Did I forget something? I didn't take notes. [[Eerik-Niles Kross comments on the floor.]] At the moment, you will receive EUR 53000 each year thanks to your party's bank account. You, Mr Kross, cannot have a say in spending this EUR 53000. Are you on the board of your party? No, it's not. Then you probably won't be able to contribute. You can, of course, recommend this or the other or the third as an outstanding member of the party, but you are not the decision-maker. I am convinced that whether this whole amount or some part of it should be given to the wider circle of decision-makers instead of the steering groups of the parties that make small and very many errors in spending. It would be a step in the right direction. Of course, the truth is, there's always a world where, when there's money, hands reach out for it. If money is distributed somewhere, there will certainly be cases of misusing money. They cannot be prevented. It always comes with money. The Commission also developed such an example that in local elections the most popular politician in its constituency, such as Lasnamäe, gets the top of the list and collects 40,000 votes. And if our bill were to become a law in the power of a witch, that person would get 80,000 euros and that would be ugly. Yeah, it could be ugly! For me, too, maybe for the first time this policy would be unpleasant, for the second time this politician himself would be unpleasant, and I think that this money could be used basically for the wrong thing. But if there were only this tar drop in the honey pot all over Estonia, then the situation would still be better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U67	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U68	It was nice of you to draw attention to a sad fact in the history of our political parties. The secretaries-general of our political parties have not bothered to work, and that is bullshit. I want to emphasise one thing. I think we're gonna run a little rough here if we don't specify one thing. For example, that you won't get the money if you give up working with your listmates at the council. My council experience is that I have never given up working with the list, the list has given up cooperating with me, and unlike the list, I have always been right. Now, second, policy work should be able to use this money. But you can imagine, I don't think there's a lot of political work since you've been elected. Then you need to do municipal management work etc. That is why I ask what makes this money different from the cost benefits used to cover the cost of doing the job.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U69	I don't have a very clear answer for you, as you know. First of all, I'm not a specialist in this field. The other thing is that these are, of course, issues of detailing or political agreements. The idea is basically expressed here that paid positions such as political parties should not arise in local elections. This phenomenon should not be repeated. I used to be a member of the Tartu City Council. At the Tartu Council, there were no paid places for political parties until 2002. We were only able to use the general staff of the council. But it was different in Tallinn at the same time. I have known at least one former member of the Fatherland Union who was hired by the Tallinn Council. I don't know exactly who paid him his salary, but probably it wasn't the Group of the Patriots, it was the Council. If we suddenly decide that we must necessarily create such paid jobs in the interests of the future of the Estonian state, then we will discuss it. If you convince me that this is necessary, then I will also support you and do so. But in general, I think that the money given to make politics should not have to do with making someone's daily bread. These things should be kept separate. Otherwise, there will be a phenomenon that we remember from the Soviet era, which has now been observed in several major cities over the last 12 years. What has happened is that initially apolitical and professional city officials, or at least their top, or deputy mayors, and department heads, are heavily influenced by dominant political parties. All these relationships are intertwined. Once, apolitical city officials have joined political parties and increased their ranks. Tallinn is now dominated by such people. It is sometimes claimed in the press that during the reign of the Centre Party, the seats of city officials have been politicised in Tallinn. But maybe it was the other way around. Perhaps it was these career-seeking city officials who corrupted the relatively alien politicians of the Central Party in this town. I don't know what's gonna happen. In any case, in the 1990s, when the independence of the Estonian state had been restored, there was an idealistic view that two kinds of people must participate in government activities in Estonia: professional officials not directly involved in politics, who would not be banned from membership of any political party, but should not be party career politicians, and, on the other hand, career politicians, whose job is to work for a good election result. This idea started to get confusing about 15 years ago. I know that in Tartu the heads of all the departments of the city administration who wanted to pursue their careers in the local nomenclature of the Reform Party have incorporated and they have risen to quite high places. Some later even became ministers. For example, we had Mr Hanson here, who was Head of the City's Finance Department, and later became famous for losing his portfolio as Minister of Defence, which is probably one of the most anecdotal stories. This process has gone even further in Tallinn. Would we have been able to prevent these two, local power and politics, from becoming intertwined and collapsing? Could we possibly have kept them separate? In my opinion, this would have been very beneficial for Estonia if we had not allowed this rebuilding to occur. When a structural analysis of politics is carried out, we can see that the regrowth is not very different from that which took place in the Executive Committee of the Tallinn Council of People's Ambassadors in the 1970s. Things aren't so much different now. We have double-deck missiles, which are composed of professional politicians and like professional officials who carry the same cart, and it is awfully difficult for an observer to know which one is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U70	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U71	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! In my opinion, policy-making is currently the exclusive responsibility of the parties. Let's watch the Riigikogu elections! When we talk about funding and competitiveness at local level, the advantages have also been created for political parties. The aim of our draft is to reduce this gap slightly at local level. Do you think it is conceivable and practical to allow electoral alliances, to allow various alternative lists of citizens in Riigikogu elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U72	Of course it's practical. Or rather, it is politically not only practical, but also necessary. Otherwise, the consequence is the alienation of part of the citizen's or electorate. It's coming anyway. Of course, alternative lists would be conceivable. Unfortunately, for 12 years, we have had the basic ideology of preventing 'competitors'. In fact, this is strange, since competitors of minor importance are not very competitors and it is long known in politics that a competitor is at least as important as vaccination in a society full of infectious diseases. If a small vaccination is given, you are more likely to be healthy afterwards. Now, the Reform Party has its own vaccination period. I don't know how fast he's coming out of there. I don't think it's yet during its membership. But, yeah, that'd be good. Which systems to use? The question here is, of course, that the concept of a party has been fetished in Estonia. This is a legal term. In other parts of the world, people who participate in elections are called political parties. We have the opposite in Estonia. Someone's called a party, and then maybe he's taking part in the elections, maybe not. I remember, during the Estonian Congress, there was a debate about where Estonian law is headed. American politics uses a great saying. I can't say it in English, but I'll say it in English. The translation in Estonian is that if you see a creature that patts like a duck, quacks like a duck and looks like a duck, then it is a duck. There you go! But in Estonia it is that, first of all, this creature may quack, but maybe it doesn't quack, it may patter, but maybe it doesn't patter, it looks like a duck, but maybe it doesn't, but it has to sprovka about it being a duck. If a sprovka exists, the remaining characteristics are not very important. And in Estonia, this sprovka becomes so that we have a register of political parties and the one who can climb into it is a party. I would point out how our neighbouring country is in Finland. In Finland, if there are parliamentary elections in the country, the party that was a member of the previous parliament has the right to set up a list. The one who was not in the previous generation, but was in the previous generation, is also right. I mean, you got caught once, you didn't make it, you didn't get in. What about the new ones? They're very simple. In fact, someone has to draw up an election list and start collecting signatures. Two people are enough to form a political party list. For example, I and Mr Hallemaa could, if we were Finnish citizens, put our heads together and make a list of the next Succession. We need to fulfil one condition: Finnish law requires that within two or three months we must collect 5 000 grant signatures from Finnish citizens. Then we get that right. These signatures are not collected on the signatures. Maybe now it's online, but before that, there were cardboard cards where every person wrote their name and social security number. And if there were at least 5,000 of those names, the venture became a thing. I think it's a perfectly reasonable system. Why can't we switch to the same system in Estonia? Why do we have to mess with everything we're being asked to do now? As a free party, we've assembled five hundred members, we've drawn up all these stupid programming papers that nobody really reads, and that's just so we can submit a list of candidates. The 2019 elections are coming soon. If we do not change this system, there will be no chance of setting up a list for the next election of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U73	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, I think I remember correctly that you have criticised the funding of political parties from the state budget and that you have not considered it the most sensible one. Now you want to extend this practice to the local level. When I listened carefully to your presentation, I also heard that you appreciated the possibility of controlling the use of the funds given to the party relatively small in order not to say nothing. This is a matter of internal democracy, isn't it? But I am interested in how you consider it possible to control the use of funds in a situation where electoral alliances are not legal persons. Unlike political parties, electoral alliances are very unstable. Their activities are visible in the pre-election period, and then they disappear from the arena for four years. How do you think this control is going to work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U75	What do you say? First of all, your introduction was so beautiful! If you are able to find all the paragraphs or sentences in my report in order to criticise my views or the positions of my group or party, I am quite pleased. Use it, it will certainly bring us more attention and help us with our work! But quite frankly, I don't have a good answer for you. If our draft should receive basic support and go to further proceedings, there is indeed a technical question about who and how to start to check. There are different ways. It has been suggested that the most appropriate control body could be the existing Political Financing Monitoring Commission if certain powers, tasks and staff were added. But it's definitely not the only way, there are other things. To be honest, I do not believe that in any of the worst cases, there could be anything worse than the current total lack of control. However, huge amounts are being made available to the political parties' boards. In my opinion, there is no way that something can get worse in this area than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U76	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U77	Thank you for that question. I'll start from a distance. I would like to stress that this draft is not necessarily an end in itself. This bill is one possible method that we offer to you, especially those in power today, as a possible compromise. If you don't want to do the whole thing, let's do half. If we do not want to go this way in order to halve the amount of money given to political parties exponentially, let us do so by giving a quarter to local governments. And the next step could be to give a quarter to the so-called political foundations. There was once a draft concerning foundations (DASAs and NASAs) that failed because the rest of the society understood that cartel parties were planning to add a big new piece to themselves under some pseudonyms. But if you go this way to conclude a political agreement to use the money now given to political parties in the Riigikogu, that a quarter will be given to the activities of foundations of this kind, such as the political Stiftungs in Germany, it would be good. Why not? But you asked about taxes. I have to admit, you've hit the weakest place I have personally. If my groupmate Andres Ammas was on the remote right now, he could answer that question. But I can't. I imagine there are tax rules in the country. There are certain payments that go to taxation, and certain payments that do not go to taxation. If there is a new kind of payout, then a political decision should be made on which type of income belongs. I would probably not object to any sensible option that would find majority support in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U78	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The draft law on supporting local democracy before us today also provides that people who have been elected in the list of political parties in the municipal elections will become more independent in the future. This means that they no longer depend so much on the central offices of the parties and could be more self-decided and more free in their choices. What could such a change lead to? Would we change the political culture and take it to another level?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U80	Thank you, that's a good question! When Estonia's independence had been restored and political organisations began to emerge, including those who put out their list in the elections, I was also in the process of creating one of these. It was called the Estonian National Independence Party. At that time, Estonia had a major dispute about the form in which the parties of the future should be structured. In particular, what type of internal structure should political parties be. It was found that the Communist Party's great peculiarity was that its internal structure was not territorial, but was based on jobs and institutions. That is why, in the first version of our party law, such sub-units were banned, only territorial ones were allowed. I believe that this was the right decision, and this solution is still not obsolete. What has been the latest development? Later developments have been such that our political parties have become too centralised. There are plenty of countries in the world where I have been and parties that I have encountered, built up as a much more federal or allied structure. Not so that there is one party that has local units in the city of Pärnu, in the city of Tartu, in the city of Paldiski, etc., but the parties have rather evolved by joining such units from the bottom up. In this case, local organisations are quite independent. As I recall, it was quite possible in local elections that the Tartu organisation of the Estonian National Independence Party did not have to ask its central organisation for permission if it wanted to submit a list of candidates to the Tartu City Council. He didn't have to ask you to sign that you'd let us. It was done by itself. But at some point this change was at some point after 2003 and so our party law is quite controversial and confusing. If, for example, the reform parties in Viimsi municipality want to set up their own list in the elections, it is very likely, isn't it, then they cannot formally do so themselves. They must ask the central body of their party, or an authorised member, to send papers to the electoral commission saying that yes, that is the idea, that is the list. Their representative shall also be appointed by the central body of the party. I don't think that's a very intelligent arrangement. I don't know who wrote such provisions into the law and why, but they should be abolished. The establishment of the list of local parties should still be the law of the local association of the party or, if there is no such association, the joint decision of the members of that party residing in the municipality. The appointment of their representatives should also be decisive on the ground. This is not the basic idea of our draft, but one practical operational problem is that. Now, if you imagine that with the help of a magic wand, this bill will become a law, he will not be able to work unless we make these fundamental amendments to the party law. There is probably something that needs to be amended in the Local Government Council Election Act. But these are secondary questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U81	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U82	Thank you. Guys, this is a really cool law, I really like it. In fact, he is a little soft in the sense that our party has actually always opposed the fact that the state is financing any party at all. That is our principled position. Why does the state have to finance political parties when we have enough corporations, companies, banks, etc., who have earned their capital thanks to the state? It is they, the big companies, corporations and banks, that should be the most important financiers of political activity, just as it is everywhere in the normal world. Anyone who contributes to economic development must also decide who contributes to economic development and who does not. But here's a trick question. Please tell me what you mean by political action that can be financed from this budget. This political action is a little ambiguous.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U83	Yeah, I agree. The general statement was absolutely correct. I, as well as the rest of the Free Party Group, are a bunch of soft people. And that's why we can't do anything, we have to admit it. As far as corporate funding is concerned, I went to talk to the former leader of a party a few years ago. I do not recall what the name of this party was and what the name of its leader was. But I remember what he said that when he heard of that exponential increase in state support in his day, he was very pleased and relieved. He said that before that life was awful. As the chairman of the political party, it was the responsibility of the party to organise grants for campaigns and other activities from big businessmen and managers of smaller companies. It took so much time that nothing else could be dealt with. Secondly, the stories that were spoken to businessmen's financiers. These donors, on the other hand, tended to impose requirements that would have to be met by the party as an alien to power after the elections. But in essence, these requirements were often so stupid that they could not be met politically. In this sense, the increase in public funding meant for him to remove one of the most unpleasant parts of his duties, and he was very happy about it. Now, what does political action mean? Yeah, that's a serious question. It is quite certain that we can more or less reach an agreement that should not be financed. Some things could be forbidden. We will certainly be able to make a rather long list of things where we fully agree that this money must not be used for them. For example, we spoke in the group in preparation for this draft that all kinds of citizens' opinion polls should go down there, as well as introducing their political plans, communicating with voters, probably printing some explanatory literature, and other things that require electronic communication today. But between these two extreme groups, which we can probably agree on relatively easily, there are some intermediate things that we do not have certainty about. At least I don't have the certainty where the boundaries go. Well, we could probably argue some of it, but there's still some sort of clarification. We have also decided to a large extent, following the example of Latvia, that we are not really trying to put together this list. Within the framework of the general principles of final clarification, the actual control and supervision body would be left to it. It's not easy. But at the same time, it shouldn't be impossible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U84	Oh, yes, Mrs. Pikhof! Maybe it's not quite thought out. Although, yes, it may not have been thought out in sufficient detail. What can I tell you? Our group has the idea that local electoral alliances should be able to gain legal personality, the Külliki Hatter who promoted the most. However, I must tell you that I have not heard a better example than you have now given, by pointing out that the status of partnership is quite poorly suited to this task. Legal personality would really be better. Thank you. If anyone asks me about this, with your permission, I will use the same example in the future, referring, of course, to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U85	Thank you. Honourable waitress! As far as the company is concerned, I'm with you today, it's not tomorrow. This is also one reason why banks do not open accounts for partnerships. But here's my question. Suppose a member of the Free Party is at the head of one election union, who receives 3,000 votes, and thanks to him, seven more people get in with fewer votes, and they agree that this money will go into the account of that member of the Free Party. Now, in three months' time, all the people will be informed, all the electoral matters that need to be done to inform people, etc., are done, but this member of the Free Party will no longer act at local level, but will go away. How do you get that money? I think this bill is completely unthinkable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U86	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! I'm coming back to the funding gap. There are several levels of this problem. First of all, this is the difference between the parties already belonging to Parliament, which are well-funded, and the newly formed parties that do not belong to it. The lists of political parties in local elections can use this money, the electoral alliances created by citizens cannot. And quite a difference is also due to the fact that some candidates use quite unashamedly administrative money was used by ministers, members of the Riigikogu, county elders and others, but some of them either lack this opportunity or are simply honest. How does this whole problem relate to the issue of political corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U88	I'm starting with the fact that your maybe random expression on part of the people either doesn't have the opportunity to use the money or they're just honest, it's so beautiful that I try to remember it. It's really nice! But a poor man and a rich man are different ways. However, in politics this does not mean, at least in a democratic society, that a poor man has no chance at all. Generally speaking, it is not only to obtain votes from their supporters, but also to collect from them the money needed to cover the minimum costs of the election campaign that I believe is part of normal policy work. Our readers are probably most familiar with what is happening in America during all the elections, even during the presidential elections, when enormous energy is needed to obtain support money before or early in the campaign. I don't know exactly how it works. Minister of Justice Reinsalu still believes that donations from legal persons are not allowed in America. It's okay! It has always been allowed, except that such a "intermediate method" is used, that if one company wants to make, for example, a $10,000 donation, it cannot do so directly. He'll have to give that money to ten of his company employees, and every employee will make a $1,000 donation. They have such a funny system. The issue of equal opportunities is, to a large extent, also a question of how we want to help someone. For example, if we were to give everyone equal time to introduce ourselves on national television for the campaign, we would take a big step forward. Now, political corruption. Political corruption is such that we even have paragraphs in the criminal code in Estonia on this subject, but generally the anti-corruption law deals with only one, the most traditional type of corruption, namely the corruption of officials. Corruption in politics and corruption in the business world, however, we have little to deal with. In Estonia it has been seriously suspected that we have practiced law or any other rules or decisions for bribery. However, as far as I know, there is no example that anyone could have proved that some group of businessmen came to a parliament party with a large wallet and said that, look, you get this bag and now you make us a law with that content. This is such a relatively hypothetical possibility. While ten years ago in England there were some clever mediators who began to mediate such deals between the British parliament and businessmen, they soon fell in. Political corruption certainly exists in Estonia and has at least two very clear subcategories. One is the same thing that I have been talking about here for over an hour: it is public funding for political parties. This money is given too much and too freely. This amount is 5.4 million a year, and it is unprecedented! As far as we know, there is no country in Europe where, according to the results of the parliamentary elections, so much money is distributed to political parties. The following in Europe will receive at least three times as much as possible. When we held government negotiations with the Reform Party after the 2015 elections, we raised the same issue. At that time, Taavi in Clothes and others assured us that we were wrong. They brought before us a young man from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose name I cannot remember now, and he said that he knows very well how the Republic of Iceland supports political parties on the island of Iceland. The relative support in Iceland is said to be much higher than in Estonia. I have not been able to verify this claim. I don't speak Icelandic. I don't know anyone I know. This young man I asked for some kind of written confirmation, but he's probably had a lot more important things to do. If he listens to me, he'll know I'm still interested in getting those evidence. Maybe it is. Iceland is such a very, very special country. In my opinion, Estonia's 'grand-political corruption' is what all major and amazing thefts are. No one in the European Union believes that what is happening in Estonia is possible. Because no one can take this seriously. If you confirm that this is happening in Estonia, a man who talks like that will look at you with a strange face is crazy, and that's crazy talk. This cannot be happening! Our massive political corruption has not reached Europe's consciousness. That's one thing. Another important area of corruption in Estonia relates to local governments. In local governments, we probably have far more corruption than in public authorities. It also seems to be typical of the large cities in which the Centre Party is the dominant political power. These are largely Russian-speaking cities, from Narva to Tallinn. Our defence police have worked wonderfully well over the last 15 years and have exposed new corruption cases. However, let us consider that the ex post identification of corruption, even if it is a question of suspicion, may be up to 5% of the actual performance. And the verdict may be reached in 1% of cases. So it's probably a very small tip of the iceberg. I have argued that, unfortunately, we have two things to note in the local politics and local business activities of these Russian-speaking cities. Firstly, the bad habits of Soviet times have remained much better in them than elsewhere. Secondly, there is pressure from our great eastern neighbour, probably a champion of economic and political corruption in the world. Corruptive practice pressures on Russian-speaking circles engaged in entrepreneurship and self-government policy are enormous. I have also argued that it is difficult to estimate all this in terms of number, but we have seen that a high-level mass bribe is being taken in Estonia. We're going to have a trial of the mayor of Tallinn. It's been a bribe. There's a difference between bribes and bribes. A bribe is involved when you have to do something illegal in return, but when you have to do something that's your day-to-day job. Demand for Ukrainian-Russian type bribery is quite common, especially when someone needs to operate at local level with no license. It is also said that a great deal is being bribed in the area of planning, but I do not have reliable data once again. There are certainly semi-secret "social cashiers" of local businessmen, through which the dominant power party or its individual members are supported. Finally, what we have also had sufficient evidence of: the partial repayment of the funds granted by the municipalities to the decision-makers for the distribution of the grants. In Russian it's otkat and in English it's kickback, the official term. Disputes are about what is so-called normal size for this form of corruption. I was recently in Albania, and it was discussed with a number of people how much it is in Eastern Europe. I thought it could be ten percent in Estonia. They said, "Don't talk like that, it's still 60 to 70% in our country." So I'm not very sure about the numbers, but all these phenomena are there. Sooner or later, the Centre Party in particular, but probably also another party with similar problems in the municipalities, will have to deal with this in its own interest. You don't think voters are stupid people who can't see or even guess. Even if the facts are not known, it will ultimately have a negative impact on the party's election results.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U89	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! On Saturday there was a conference of electoral alliances in Tartu. How did the representatives of the electoral alliances adopt your bill? I'm sure you introduced it there. What were the questions that were addressed? And what steps do the electoral associations expect from the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U91	Mrs. Understood, I don't know how to answer you. I wasn't there, and neither were you. I was in Albania at a conference where I made a video presentation to Tartu. So I don't know what happened in Tartu. I received a link to this conference yesterday via Postimees, but I haven't been able to look at it. So you're gonna have to ask someone else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U92	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U93	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Your approach is broadly sympathetic. It is obvious that from the time of the Parts' government, there has been cementation of a small group and unequal conditions for going to the elections. But in a letter sent on behalf of the government, Urmas Reinsalu says that EUR 1.2 million must be distributed to many people. Everyone usually gets little and the salaries of accountants and other bureaucrats have to be deducted. It is not like there is a clear vision of how to deal with this task without red tape. How are you gonna solve this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U94	First of all, this opinion. I know a lot of people who write those kinds of opinions from the Justice Department. It is not easy for them to have the political task of finding the reasons for our draft to be negative. I mean, they want to earn a salary, and they don't want to leave voluntarily. It's hard for them. I do not think that this problem of bureaucracy and technical solutions is a serious problem in today's e-governance era. This will certainly not be more difficult if all the problems of reporting and control are solved in the Ministry of Social Affairs and its departments, which are mostly dealing with similar tasks. This political idea that if we do not have too much money, it is better not to distribute it to many small groups, but to a few large parties, I think it is a stupid and demagogic idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U95	Andrei Novikov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You used to show that if a person receives 40,000 votes and if a grant of about 2 euros per vote is distributed per year, then a pretty good amount will be paid. You also said that this would not be a reimbursement of any costs, which is that no checks should be presented. That money would just be transferred to the account. In economic terms, how should this amount of money be interpreted by the State: is it the income of the person who has to pay income tax, or is it simply a grant or something else?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U97	Thank you for this question. I, too, belong to a group of political players who think that they have mostly been right and lost are people who have contradicted them. But that's it. There are a number of controversial questions here. We also argued in our group. I imagine, on the basis of my experience in life, that in the case of any kind of money, those persons who have been key or symbolic members of a local council or Riigikogu in receipt of a particular money must have some kind of right of participation. Perhaps this should be limited, for example, to a veto only, the softest solution, but this right should be. I also think that it would not be a bad solution, that if one of the council groups receives a certain amount of money, but their 'non-missing member' is separated from them, he should be accompanied by his share of money. I am also still of the opinion that there is an exceptionally undemocratic and unreasonable procedure here in the Riigikogu that, for example, if I step out of the Free Party Group and go under the window to the bench, I will go in a fight with others and do not get any sums to support the work of the Riigikogu. It's all in the hands of those who made a mistake and couldn't hold me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U98	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Paragraph 4 (3) of the draft law provides a list which must not be taken up with this money. This list contains seven points. Please explain why this is an option! It's always possible to put more and take something down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U100	This list is short, it's true. In previous versions of the draft, it was much longer. I guess we were discussing these things and arguing, and finally there were consensual points. A similar list of prohibitions, a few pages long in Latvian law, has been used as an example. There are two kinds of things. Firstly, areas in which the misuse or use of these amounts has occurred in Estonia. Others are in some ways trivial points that should be included in such a list. Here was a question before about the section that states the purpose of the law. I forgot to say that such paragraphs are meant not for the readers of the law, but for the courts in the event that a lawsuit should be brought about under this law. The court must have a criterion on which to determine whether it is a social good that is guaranteed or a vice. Part of this list is undoubtedly points which are directed outwards, say, to a hypothetical judge or to a hypothetical official, if he has any doubts as to how he should work. It would be the basis of his work code.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-11_U101	The plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday is closed. We'll pick it up tomorrow. The initiator of the draft act answers questions from members of the Riigikogu. Good luck! [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 13.02 a.m.
