ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the second Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Let's start by handing over the drafts and enquiries. On behalf of the Governing Board, I agree to accept them. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday I accidentally happened to watch TV and I warn you not to look. What's coming from there is awful. Do something else. Yesterday's "The Spectator" was an overview of how the Centre Party has not viewed Tallinn's property in a benevolent manner. Real estate in the Old Town has been distributed to people associated with the Centre Party, ignoring any business logic. It was pointed out that those who applied for the list of the Centre Party, those who were close to the management of the Centre Party and those who applied for the Socialist List were rented under a normal rent level in the Old Town, leaving all business risks to the taxpayer. For example, a member of the Centre Party rents a three-fold house in the old town, paying 972 euros a month for the whole house. Essentially, the three-storey property in the Old Town has been acquired for two average old-age pensions. Similarly, in my opinion, the person elected to the Tallinn City Council as the representative of the social democrats of the two-time house on a corrupt road has reached the Town Hall Square. In addition to the revelations on the show, more suspicious transactions have been made with the city's real estate. Kapo has estimated that the NGO Human Rights Information Centre acts as a tool for Russia's influence policy, but the city government managed by the Centre Party has decided to rent it office space at a price of 0.96 euros per square metre. This gives rise to all the following questions, from which I will read one specifically personal. What is your recommendation on how to rent a three-time house in the old town with a rent of 972 euros per month in Tallinn legally, without being part of the Centre Party? I'm interested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U3	Me too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U4	Oh, wow, he wants to, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U5	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U6	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, My four fellow Members from the Reform Party Group moved me to make this question, I would say, such cognitive dissonance, which is constantly arising because of the difference between what the Prime Minister talks about when presenting the government's security policy positions on this platform or at his press conferences and what the leading figures of the Prime Minister's party speak, presenting their security policy positions in many other parts of the world. A few days ago, Euro Ambassador Yana Toom, on the Russian TV channel Rossija, expressed the opinion that Article 5 of NATO's collective defence has become a service offered to the member states of the alliance. He said that incitement to such hysteria was natural because demand for such a service was increasing. He spoke about the concerns of Estonia and the allies regarding the training of Zapad. Well, let's put aside the fact that the show on the Solovev show is quite suspicious at all. But I immediately remembered how Prime Minister Ratas said this from this very remote point: 'We have generally managed to keep one line in the Estonian country, and it has been that we have not settled our country's internal problems and pseudo-themes through foreign policy channels, foreign media. [---] There are no political parties in this Chamber who want to undermine our credibility outside Estonia and harm our good name in the eyes of our allies in the European Union and NATO. ' I always thought he was talking about me, but now I understand that he was probably talking about Yana Toom, at least I hope so, even though he has said that Yana Toom always represents the programmatic views and principles of the Central Party government and the Centre Party. There are several questions in the question, but their main content is that what the Prime Minister has done to bring the positions of his leading politicians into line with the foundations of Estonia's security policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U7	On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and the Management Board decides on their further processing, as usual, on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. Arthur Talvik, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U8	Good President! The Free Party Group does not understand why it is not possible to ask questions to the Jaak Prince in the debate on a very important national issue today. Does Jack Prince give a show on the remote, or does he do a report? The papers say he's making a report. It would be natural for the waitress to ask questions. As a big fan of democracy and a fan of the Jaak Prince, I would like to have a debate with him. Why has the Bureau decided that, as the title says, the debate on a very important national issue will not be allowed to be debated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U9	Ladies and gentlemen, It is very often possible to ask questions to two rapporteurs in the debate on national issues of this kind, where there are three speakers. Right now, the two of whom I'm going to tell you more about have been chosen. But not in advance, but simply recommending, I say that it is also possible to ask questions about the third report, because all the rapporteurs today represent one way of thinking. [[The excitement in the hall.]] In addition, it is possible to take the floor afterwards and then you can say all that is left on your mind. All right! Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U10	I'll take your word for it. By the way, it is perfectly understandable that, today, only one party in Parliament is represented by a narrow mindset. I fully agree with this and we understand it very well. But in this case, what does the word 'debate' in the Rules of Procedure mean? Does this mean that we must all embrace this thinking now, as I suppose it is? What if we don't? Where does this forum come from? [[Shout from the hall.]] If I don't believe what they're saying, what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U11	Ladies and gentlemen, it was your interpretation that a narrow way of thinking is being represented. I said that these three presentations probably represent a similar way of thinking. There's a very big difference. What are you supposed to do? I think even younger colleagues can advise you on what should be done. Take this opportunity to ask and speak on behalf of the group or at your own request. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U12	Thank you, Mr President. In my opinion, the content of Artur Talvik's question was whether the second performer was a presentation or a theatre reading. When it comes to the show, I understand that no questions are asked. Maybe it doesn't belong in this hall. If it's a report, I don't remember that precedent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U13	This is definitely a report. I think that some of our colleagues have sometimes spoken in a bit of a show-like way. Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U14	Thank you, Mr President. If the spirit and desire of a large hall is to be able to ask questions to all three waitresses, what prevents us from making such a decision right now? What section of the Rules of Procedure Act regulates that we should not decide here in an operational way to allow all rapporteurs to ask questions? This would also create a serious debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U15	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U16	Thank you. In fact, I would very much like to hear the answer to this question, whether we could vote on it. But I think that if we cannot ask questions, that in itself sums up the answer to the question of the state of democracy in Estonia, which we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U17	I have consulted and can say that the way we are asking questions today and reacting to reports has come from the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Bureau supported this proposal. [[Noise in the hall.]] If the group now proposes a different kind of proposal, I see no reason not to vote on it. I understand from the speech and body language of the group chairman that they are sticking to their original proposal. All right! Now, one message. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow a conference on European transport associations will take place in this Chamber of the Riigikogu under the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. I therefore ask you to bring all the materials from your desks and drawers. Now there's a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U18	We have an item on the agenda today, a debate on the key national issue 'Dangers and challenges of democracy in Estonia'. Rapporteurs are Professor Marju Lauristin, Member of the European Parliament, Actor Jaak Princes and Member of the Social Democratic Party Group Toomas Jürgenstein. Our only item on the agenda today is the debate on a crucial national issue and let me introduce the procedure for this debate, which follows from § 153 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Rules of Procedure and, in this case, from the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group. First of all, Professor Marju Lauristin, Member of the European Parliament, will present a 20-minute presentation on the importance of liberal democracy in Estonia's own existence. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 30 minutes. The actress Jaak Prince will then perform with a presentation of up to 20 minutes. 'We don't have to be afraid' is the content of this report. We don't ask that waitress any questions. Third, Toomas Jürgenstein, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group, will present a 15-minute presentation on the wealth of nationalism. Questions and answers following the presentation, which also last up to 15 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may submit a total of up to two questions to the rapporteurs. I do not see much opportunity not to ask any questions about the report by the Prince of Jaak to any other waitress. After the presentations and questions have been answered, we will open a round of negotiations where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can speak. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed that the representatives of the political groups first take the floor. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The Social Democratic Party Group has proposed to extend this session if necessary, but we will come back to this proposal later. I now invite Professor Marju Lauristin, a Member of the European Parliament, to give a speech. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U19	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable members of the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia! The question of how important values are in politics is, in fact, a very important and eternal question. Why, then, are we discussing the importance of liberal democratic values in Estonian politics in an extraordinary way here today? Certainly not because our message from this hall is that there is a liberal democracy in Estonia in serious danger, Estonia's democracy is rocking, and Estonia is going to go the way that is considered to be in conflict with the fundamental agreements of the European Union among the Member States of the European Union. Because that is the case, the fundamental treaties of the European Union provide precisely that all Member States respect the values of liberal democracy, that all Member States respect fundamental human rights and that both day-to-day political practices and that the laws that are adopted comply with those values. This is also the answer to Igor Gräzin's question. Indeed, it would be natural for the Estonian parliament to follow this broad view of the world here. That is exactly what we are talking about today: we are not talking about the variations of one party or another on this subject. This has been the case since I had the honour of defending these values against attacks in this Chamber on 20 August 1991 in this very remote area. Then the leaders of these attacks were comrades, who were well-known to everyone, no, I don't think he's well-known anymore, thank God! "Vladimir Lebedev. These attacks were really hostile; they were based on other values. I am pleased that this hall, with its unanimous majority, opposed them and we are here today, a free democratic parliament of Estonia. I therefore believe that today's debate is timely in this respect. This is not an atmosphere of extraordinary danger; it is an atmosphere of calm discussion. If I may express my opinion as a member of the Riigikogu as to whether any of the rapporteurs could be asked questions, I say that I think it could be, but I was not asked before. The question is, indeed, perhaps what, once again, on this same board said on the memorable 2 April 1988, not the President, but the writer Lennart Meri, when we were in this Chamber at the creative alliance plenum. So Lennart came up with this famous question, "Who are we, where are we from, where are we going? ' It seems to me that today we are discussing the same broad issue precisely because perhaps these questions are who we are, where we come from and where we are going, are not as clear an answer as then today. Then, in fact, no one who was here at the Plenum of the Creative Unions, or later anyone who was at any large gatherings, whether in the Hirve Park, in the Song Festival Square or in the Baltic Chain, had any doubt that once again, once again, with known words, our relics are freedom. 'Freedom, freedom, freedom,' we repeated in the Baltic Way. At these big events, there were always slogans out 'Democracy! ', 'For Democratic Estonia! ' ', then it seemed self-evident. Everyone seemed to know what it meant. Everyone seemed to agree. When we then started to build the same free and independent state, it was also clear that, despite the tensions and disputes that had been before the restoration of independence and which continued after that, these disputes were between the Supreme Council and the Congress of Estonia or between the various political groups, the basic values were not at issue. The Constitution of the Republic of Estonia was discussed in this Chamber and later adopted in a referendum. In fact, a very decisive choice was made. We had a version of Jüri Adams here, which was indeed a version of the Constitution of a modern democratic state, which, while supporting the constitution that had been in the Republic of Estonia before the occupation, brought in very important components of modern democracy, namely liberal democracy. The whole chapter was about human rights and so on. If the choice was made that this is precisely the basis of the constitution that we want, then it showed, I think, again, that we had a very clear aim at the time, which democracy we are building in Estonia. It is part of this democracy, of course, that there are many political parties. Whether'many' is two, three, five or 17, it's a practical question. After all, the practical issue has been resolved here, perhaps in the best way for us, as in the Nordic countries. Indeed, there is no more fantasy for us than there are five to seven, so that the differences can also be identified as major choices in the case of elections. There are also 17 and 23 of them, but they still reced more to these five to seven main lines, even three main lines. It's natural for a democracy. No one has resented that we have disagreements on matters concerning practical solutions, be they social, educational, cultural or economic policy. This is, once again, one such natural result of a liberal understanding. Why, then, are we discussing today the fate and the situation of liberal democracy? Of course, it can be said that we are discussing this because it is being discussed throughout Europe. We are in Europe, but when we come from the European Parliament, where these European disputes may be most heated every day, I know that there is an extremely clear picture. You're all imagining it. There is a clear difference: there are these 'classical political groups', the People's Party, or conservative forces, there is a liberal, green and socialist group. In the case of large issues, it is entirely natural that these groups are discussing matters calmly, at text level, and that they are trying in principle to reach a solution that everyone believes is such that it can be voted for. Always, on all matters, we see that there are those on the verge of two who, in principle, oppose any agreement. These two edges are in a very clear genre in this sense. First, the right side. All of us have seen, at least on television, a gentleman like Mr Farage. It was very strange for me to see that he was invited to an Estonian event as some kind of European idea, I don't know, a grandeur. Mr Farage is mainly performing as a clown on the stage of the European Parliament. He knows it himself. Indeed, it presents very extreme ideas against the European Union, against democracy, against liberal attitudes. Then he's always looking around and waiting for applause. The applause comes only from behind him, the rest of Parliament is silent. Of course, on this side is Mrs Le Pen, whose views, unlike those of Mr Farage, have always been spiced with a certain sense of humor, are far from humor; they are, you could say, very militantly anti-democratic. But we know that Mrs Le Pen did not achieve the success she hoped for in the French elections, and since then her weight in the European scene has been greatly reduced. He doesn't act like a star anymore. He's gotten pretty quiet. There's others out there. There's a gentleman there who's also Mrs. Le Pen's party. I would like to remind you that if there were to be a re-election of the European Parliament and a member of the elected EKRE, he would probably belong to this side of the European Parliament. There is also Mr Schaffhauser, for example, who always vocally protects Putin. If there is some kind of resolution that needs to take a stand on Russia's policy, we will hear a loud voice from the right side, even shouting that too great Putin is being done, that Russia will be harmed, and that is the socialist-liberal conspiracy against Putin. And then there's another edge, which is on the left-hand side, where I hear it, and we all hear quite similar performances with the right-hand side of it when we're talking about this same Putin policy. But in other things, I also hear these voices and the rhetoric that sounded, for example, here in this hall in 1940. It may be easier for me, as my father's daughter, to say that this is the rhetoric that then fooled people and the world, indeed, again emotionally inciting anger and derogatory attitudes towards the Estonian state and democracy at all, into this very bourgeois democracy. Then what we now call liberal democracy was called bourgeois democracy. Also in 2017, unfortunately, the type of speech that incites hatred and talks about how capitalism, which is a bloodsucker, must be combated. I'll make sure they're like quotes from Viktor Kingissepa's books. I find it very strange that Estonia is sometimes beginning to hear such statements from the right side of this hall, the rhetoric and style of which remind me very much of Viktor Kingissepp. But I don't think it's that weird anymore, because, I'm saying, in Europe too, these things are confusing, there is no clear difference here. The edge and the other edge match very well. The history of all our policies, the success of all our policies, the success of Estonia as a whole, has been based on the fact that we have had this 'average democratic consensus', as well as the success of Europe. Europe is currently more or less overcoming this crisis because the elections in France showed the intercourse of forces. Elections in Germany are starting to come, and it is already clear that these new extremes will not be defeated there either. So, if there was nervousness and certain panic in this type of debate in the political groups of the European Parliament about six months ago that is about to become Europe, it is almost no longer there at the moment. I don't think we have any reason to panic like that either. But we need to understand that in our small 'water glass' policy, where Miku is still playing with Mann, the influence of one person, one small group, on the public climate can be much greater than it is in a very large policy where these waves cross, but in the end there is still some sort of balance, it is already coming from the levelling force of a very large number of differences. We may, in fact, have one newspaper article, one political speech, one hysterical scream, one case, if it is to be exploited not for the sake of the whole country, not for the sake of common development, not for the sake of democracy, but for the sake of some short-term score, but for the sake of some sort of short-term score, really cause much more confusion than it would create in some large countries or in Europe as a whole. The situation is particularly bad when we see that we have not only individual politicians, who have always been, but also political groups, who are totally deliberately taking advantage of the possibility that in this little echo bubble or echo room, we are starting to amplify these things in such a way that they create in those people who do not know very much about politics, and we know that there is an increasing number of these people with emotional panic, that now everything is doomed, something terrible has happened, that something is being sold, and so on. I have to tell you, as a personal experience, that I have been through all kinds of difficult situations in the politics of the Republic of Estonia, for example as Minister of Social Affairs, when the pensioners were on this yard and so on, but there has never been such a thing before, as I have now experienced. About two weeks ago, I was bombarded with phone calls, I was literally threatened with murder and quite this rhetorical, in this key, as we hear here, betrayal, and so on. You see, this happened in a situation where, for example, in the middle of Tallinn City, right here near Kaarli Avenue and happened to be at the door of the building where I rented a place to stay in Estonia, the sign that there was a LGBT Tallinn centre was smashed. I came in the other day and I saw that sign smashed up with stones. I can see who goes there, mostly very young people. Really, very nice young people, not some 'demonstratively challenging', provocative, but very pretty young people. That sign was smashed. The house belongs, by the way, to an old Estonian who returned to Estonia, who came here just because he saw that Estonia has become a safe democratic state where he can spend his old age peacefully. These are such tendencies, this small experience of mine is just one small ripple that forces us to talk about Estonia's tendency to take advantage of people's various disappointments, domestic despair, certain social anger, which still arises when inequality in society is large enough. Estonia's inequality is one of Europe's greatest, we take inequality between Tallinn and other Estonia, inequality between wages, etc. Any such soil creates a basis for emotional reaction, aggression, that's the same anger. If it is to be used in this way in local politics to reap its own political benefits, I say that it is primarily and first politically irresponsible. Liberal democratic values are indeed at risk when they are attacked by a wave of blind emotions that can be easily unleashed, but it is actually difficult to keep in control. European history knows how difficult it is to keep it in check. This is known by those who have seen the situation in Germany, where the forces who actually brought Germany to ruin came to power by means of the elections. It's seen by people like us. Older people remember this incitement of anger, all the rhetoric that once again sought to keep masses in control in Russia and elsewhere. It was a little harder in Estonia, but it was precisely with fear and anger that they tried to do so, and they did not want any democratic values or freedoms to let themselves gain ground. When we stood here for our independence and got it back, we were confident that we would rely on the values that are common to the rest of the world. We were confident that Europe would support us, we were supported by America, we were confident that this is the basis for this consensus of value. Why could we go bare-handedly into the forest to make the Baltic chain, knowing that it was no longer possible that the same forces of an armed occupying state would have come to our wrong? Because the world was already on our side, and this world was a world based on democratic and liberal values. We were sure if anything happened to us, we wouldn't be alone. This knowledge that Estonia must not be alone was between our skin. It was knowing why we made such a constitution. That knowledge was what we went from outside. This knowledge was when we wrote as soon as this decision was made in this house for all embassies in democratic countries and we immediately received positive answers. It was a certainty of this consensus of value. We cannot afford the luxury of making the world feel that we are no longer standing on this surface, because it may cost us much more than Poland, for example. Today, in Poland, it is very much to do with the fact that democratic values are indeed in danger and formally threatened. However, when the Polish Prime Minister went to the European Parliament and spoke precisely in this tone and attacked, then it was said that, come on, it is Poland, it is such a great country, there are such strong democratic foundations, it is going to change with the next elections, let us not create Poland after panic. But if a small country such as Estonia, for whom there is a great deal of ignorance anyway, etc., promises to have the luxury of allowing the reputation that we have as a democratic, progressive, democratically consensual society downstream, then the loss of this capital is very, very difficult to make up for, not only outside Estonia, but also for us here. Because these are the values that we can be confident about, however, that although our wages are lower than in Finland, much of our young people will not go to Finland, Sweden, Germany or America. They're here because it's this society that gives them the chance to exercise themselves by breathing freely. If there is any doubt about this, our loss will be even greater than the loss of a foreign policy reputation alone. So I guess we have no reason to panic, not at all. We have reason to stick together, to appreciate the consensus we have, and to stick to the whole peasant's mind, not to let this echo bubble begin to create emotional instability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U20	There are questions for the waitress. The duration of the questioning session shall be half an hour. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U21	Thank you, good waitress, for a meaningful presentation. Thank you, Speaker! I have just imagined how this presentation of yours would have affected the Lithuanian Parliament, for example, and I wanted to ask what is suddenly so wrong in our democracy in the north that such a major promotional or lobbying campaign for liberal democracy has arisen. I don't understand. The basic principle of democracy that a minority is subject to the majority, while taking into account the minority's opinion, is stated in the textbook. What is wrong with our democracy now that we need to have a liberal democracy lobby?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U22	Mr. Sults, I am a little amazed that you call this debate a lobby. That's a long way from the lobby! Of course, you could put a little more in there and say that this is talk, then it would coincide with rhetoric, which is very often used for Parliament. I don't think we're talking here. Indeed, I am not here with you every day, but when I think of the fragments that I heard from the debate that was around the Istanbul Convention, I must say that there were very strange expressions that remind me very much of the margins mentioned by the European Parliament. I think we have reason to acknowledge that such tendencies exist in Europe, and if they are amplified by us, they, as I said, will have a much worse effect than they have in large countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U23	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U24	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you for this meaningful, interesting and certainly very wide presentation, which is always natural in your case. If the beginning of the previous question had something to do with Lithuania, I would go further because you stressed the European Union and our membership several times and you came here today as a Member of the European Parliament. In the next few months, you'll probably have to make that decision, as you've said, where will you be? But the question concerns another nation. I am asking from both the European Union and from our perspective, you are strong and active in both policies. How can we assess the applications and developments of Catalonia and Catalans?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U25	Thank you. Thank you. That is, of course, a very interesting question. That's what the Catalans have asked me. This is not actually a very simple question for us. I have been following what is happening in our public, where our public debate is inclined. This may not be really about our subject today, but it is a little bit. Because we can see that the attempt has also been made to channel the independence of the Catalans, based, of course, on the views of the Spanish ruling party, about the direction that you see, terrible populists, right, creating some confusion, etc. The emphasis is on the fact that these Catalans themselves are outnumbered there, etc. I see that quite a lot of purely demagogic arsenals have been introduced here. However, the Catalans themselves, as far as I have seen them, have tried to avoid this; they have tried to do this quite democratically and peacefully. But my last meeting with their representative was on the subject of the government itself actually screwing up. They, like they no longer saw a peaceful solution, which is very regrettable. So my position is still that we are in favour of every nation's right to decide its fate, but on the other hand, we are certainly in favour of this happening within the constitutional framework, indeed in the form of peaceful negotiations and a peaceful decision, not as a contradiction that once again throws emotions up and after which it is very difficult to come out and do something sensible. While we stood up for our independence, the Catalans came here in 1988 and 1989. They convinced us, by the way, that, hey, think about it, maybe it's more reasonable to go ahead with this great country, that they have decided that they have more use in Spain now than to start restoring independence. So times and circumstances change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U26	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U27	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress! I have to say, your report was full of post-truth rhetoric. I cannot accept this argument in any way, as if Farage represented anti-democratic positions. Farage represents a large number of the English public, stands for the independence and democracy of nation states. In the same way, I cannot agree in any way if you put us in a group of European Parliaments where we have not put ourselves. You don't have to attribute that to us. I'm worried that you're talking about breaking up a sign here and creating a climate of fear against it, but we know that our posters are torn down almost every week and that our people are also threatened with murder. We just don't complain about it. We know that in Järva-Jaani, a community governed by the Soci, our member or our member was released from the Rakvere theater because he attended an anti-gay demonstration. But what do you think, in the European Union, is it even possible to have a conservative democracy in these so-called conditions, according to this catalogue you have provided, or do we, the Conservatives, still have to be all liberals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U28	The question of whether you are all conservatives is, of course, very politically interesting. Conservatives are known to be divided into three groups, even four. The question of where you would belong if you were to come there, and where you would get your seats, depends not only on what you want, but also very much on what kind of group of ambassadors will acknowledge you as their own. They look quite closely at the positions that come with them. So it's a very interesting question about yourself. I'm really sorry about your difficult situation, but I'm afraid it's true here the proverb that whoever's sowing the wind will cut the storm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U29	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U30	Good manager! Dear waitress, Is what's going on now a demonstration of President Arnold Rüütel's home party EKRE? The show is about to show up as a beloved actor. I have concerns that the popularity of our beloved coalition partner, the Social Democrats, has been falling short of the EKRE recently.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U31	Dear Peter, read the latest papers!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U32	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U33	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Your report was about misinformation and disinformation. You put us together with some Putin worshipers that we've never been. Never was! Members of your party constantly love to emphasise how we want to leave NATO, which we have never wanted. They stress that we want to leave the European Union, which we have never wanted. We want an alliance of nation states, but not a federal Europe. So you could stop lying, but it's hard for you because you are the midwife of disinformation in the Estonian press. I understand you've had this twisted truth in so much blood since Soviet times that it's inevitable. My question is very specific and I ask you to answer! You don't answer questions as a disinformation midwife. The question is very specific: why liberal democracy, why not just democracy? Don't you think that all kinds of epithets limit the meaning of the term?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U34	Thank you. After all, the concept of 'liberal democracy' has quite a clear content. The clear content is, by the way, very important of itself, that we are now talking, as social democrats, about liberal democracy, that it is personal freedom that is the cornerstone here. Freedom of person, personal choices, this is what the democratic process is based on. What is there to deny, both conservatives and, by the way, social democrats, when we look at the European scale, are those who, in fact, regard such personal freedom and personal choices as not the cornerstone of their party. There are conservative political parties, for example, national canned boats, where collectiveity is the cornerstone. Nationalism is, in fact, a collective choice of content, not a personal choice. There are also plenty of socialists or socialists in Europe who believe that the cornerstone is not a personal choice, but a collective choice, for example, a choice of a social group or class. There are plenty of them in Europe, too. That is why I think that Estonia's specificity has been that we have for quite a long time remained more or less around the centre, in the situation of the possibility of consensus. This has been the basis for our success. That is why liberal democracy, which gives special weight to personal freedom, is so important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U35	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U36	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! I am interested in one particular factor that affects Estonia's political culture and, through it, the development of democracy. It was a great honour to be with you among the people who signed a text called "Harta 12." At a later debate between its signatories, I raised the issue of funding political parties. Respectable teacher, you did not consider this an important issue at the time, or a particular one worthy of discussion. Do you agree today? What do you think about funding political parties in Estonia now? Do you think it's the best of possible systems or it's worth making?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U37	You can always discuss changing anything. When we start discussing it, it is always a question of what is necessary, what is beautiful, what is possible and what is so-called practically effective. After all, we are looking at the situation of civil society in Estonia as a whole, it is not only political parties that are concerned, because the party is essentially a part of civil society from its original point of view; the issue of how our civil society organisations are financed is just as acute. It was only this week that the topic was that we actually have a large number of civil society organisations on public money. One of the answers here is that our society is still so poor that private donations, money or, if you want, membership fees cannot be maintained at all by a busy and large organization. I mean, there's gotta be some kind of public money. The form in which this public money comes is a matter of its own. I have always advocated having a democracy fund or foundation-like thing that would finance parties, campaigns, etc., which would set the same rules and limits for everyone. The Social Democrats have also raised the question, by the way, of'regulating and restricting' electoral costs, in order to avoid a race between ever more expensive and larger campaigns. On the other hand, these stories, for example, that it would be very nice if it were only on private sponsors, essentially means calling for corruption. These would be evadable pocket parties, with which we will undoubtedly not get anywhere. So I think that this issue needs to be discussed, but the solutions are not easy to come. If you remember, there was an idea here once, I think the Reform Party raised it, or was it the Fatherland, I don't remember which one to make a democracy fund. Do you remember? Then society was horrified to see how we could create some kind of fund from which, in fact, the activities of political parties were again financed. So it is now a rather complex and painful question in Estonia how to solve this problem so as to avoid corruption and also to avoid that the entire financing system is very national.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U38	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am interested in the problems that have caused this scepticism in the liberal values you mentioned earlier. I think that these reasons are certainly also inherent in the so-called mainstream parties themselves. You didn't really analyze that side. What is it now? Perhaps the closure and inequality of the funding system, perhaps a more general closure of the political system, the lack of democratic outputs in society, corruption in Estonia and Europe. Please open this side too!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U40	Thank you very much for this question. I've got this on the edge, "Speak the reasons! ', but I didn't have time for this report. I'm glad I can talk about it. This is really very important. Of course, I fully agree that none of this comes about just because of any accident or external causes. It has been said that this suspicion of these very liberal values, in all this so-called mainstream policy, in mainstream parties, has caused even a migration crisis. A great many people have come to Europe and it has put pressure on this whole system, people do not understand what is happening, the European Union is weak in finding answers, and it has been said to be one of the reasons. This has undoubtedly been one of the reasons, but not the main reason. There have been other things. It has been pointed out that as a result of the economic downturn, very many countries fell off or off the floor of their welfare society and that there was a very serious social misunderstanding about how politics has come to this point. Greece is a very good example here. There, people still rebel against any step that seeks to make a more rational policy. I think it is very right that the very big reason is also the alienation of this European policy, of political parties and of rhetoric. Listen to which language and the concepts used to express these well-established ideological, I would even say, packages. This package is, in my opinion, a real virus. If we put such packages on the background where a person actually lives his life, then the distance is huge. People really get the feeling that political parties are doing something that absolutely doesn't affect their lives and doing something in their own bubble. It has, of course, been a plus for all these new forces, but also for the emotional forces. I absolutely acknowledge Mart Helmet here, because when I listen to his speeches, I understand that he really speaks the language used by an Estonian man in a village, in a tavern or in a meeting, and that is a great virtue. It seems to me that this closure of mainstream policy is a rather bureaucratic bubble and round-shaping of their political packages, so it is difficult to read any fresh point out of them, too, of great importance. Plus that there is also a very strong influence on a certain kind of political, you might say, the routine that has arisen. This same representative democracy has come down to this, too, we have discussed it for a long time and, on some occasions, criticised it, that four years are rested and then elected once, and that is democracy. Clearly, in today's world, where every person can know everything through a computer and intervene in everything, in fact, new forms are needed. It is my personal conviction as a social scientist that in all this new digital world, these old, still centuries-standing political institutions, including political parties, must change, they must change and the formats of democratic decision-making must also change. For example, when we are discussing elections in Tartu, we are considering quite seriously whether Tartu could be the place in Estonia that is trying to try at least the local digital referendum for the first time. In short, it is necessary to give people the opportunity to feel that they can intervene and really influence decision-making, not only to express their emotions, not once in four years, but constantly. I think these forms need to be created. The current format of political parties is also beginning to change, precisely because a much more continuous interactive dialogue with a much larger number of people is possible in the new virtual environment. I think it's necessary. As far as Parliament's activities are concerned and this issue is concerned, there are obviously also questions. We do not have this problem, our Parliament is small. We know that there are huge parliaments in the old European countries, which are enormously wealthy and make up a separate class. I think that Europe's old democracy is really going through a crisis because it has really lost some fat and rust. Change has to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U41	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U42	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am also concerned that hate speech, racist speech, homophobia and xenophobic thoughts in Estonia sound quite loud and sound quite loud in Parliament, which also gives such dark forces courage and confidence elsewhere. I also find it sad that it is justified, and it is done as if the politicians had spoken too correctly in the past, and it is as if this political correctness is justified by the current hate speech. I don't think they're equal weight. It also seems strange to me that even Members do not understand what liberal democracy means. This is not liberalism, this is not a conspiracy of the Reform Party. That is precisely the right of individuals and minorities to exist in the system in which the majority decides. But are there any faster changes in Estonian society? You have done many of these social studies and referred to elections in Europe. But are there any rapid changes in the attitudes of the Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U43	In fact, I think this is the moment when Estonia is beginning to emerge, speaking in social science, with certain new social forces. But they don't show themselves in so-called classical politics. All of this, one could say, the participation of a new, young and educated generation in society is very active. But if we look at their wish to come to the elections now, we will see that the turnout is still below the average. I think that quite new ideas are emerging here, which are precisely based on these new opportunities. So the question is how to bring these two things together, these new ideas and forces, and the so-called political machine that works. Speaking now in the language we speak in the digital world: where is the interface? How do you make these two work together? If we make the mistake of inviting this part of the more active young society, who is politically interested, into these very forms and offering them all kinds of digital Politics is not a game. In a way, it may be, but by its very nature, it still isn't. I'm coming to the charter now. The same test that we did after the Charter, this attempt of the people's assembly, was left alone. We have not analysed the possibilities that were missed, rather, the possibilities that had not been tested. I think there are opportunities here that should be used much more boldly, because it would give these newcomers the opportunity to come up with new ideas. The whole set of problems in the population began after the border was set at the beginning, so that these things could be discussed and cannot be discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U44	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your inspirational presentation. I would like to clarify a little about what happened in our values and mentality in the 1990s. I may provoke a little, but didn't we, as Estonia's independence, rely mainly on national conservation values and then on the reconstruction of the nation state? We began to learn European, liberal democratic values gradually in the 1990s, when we wanted to start approaching the European Union. We gradually civilized. Topics such as human rights, gender equality, the rights of nations and sexual minorities came. It was a relatively painful process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U46	Thank you for your question. I'd say there's two planes. At this level, where there was a real political debate on how to build a country, how to build a government, how to create all these new institutions, I dare say it, having been in this debate, we were quite consciously guided by the knowledge we had, precisely the baggage of building this democratic state. There is now also an attempt in Europe to emphasise the contradiction that there are national values and there are democratic, liberal values here. On the contrary, we tried to keep these things in balance, as has been the case in Estonia in general. Let's just say that it hasn't worked out with any success, but with enough success, we haven't really started killing each other. Although we have problems here that we have not been able to solve. I'm not going to name them, we all know them. Today, this issue is even more acute in Europe, by the way. Our experience of ourselves is much more positive than the experience of Europe, because in Europe, for example, bringing these two together, a national approach and a liberal democratic approach, for example, seems to be a very big mystery and a great deal of tension. In theory, it is also discussed very much. When we speak now on the second level that we began to study, we actually began to learn with the whole Estonian society what its practical content and meaning is when we talk about democracy, and what it is practical content and meaning when we talk about being a nation state, we have to be and we are a democratic state. What are these specific forms and ways of action here? Where are these boundaries? Where is this civilization? Indeed, the process of civilization has been taking place for 30 years. We can see that this is happening with varying success. I very much agree with what has been said here that there are certain things that cannot be said, for example, that political correctness is something enormously disgusting and we throw it in the corner, because then we should throw politeness into the corner at all. It's also a process of civilization. Of course, the process of civilization is painful. If a person is still not used to eating with a knife and a fork, it is very difficult for him to do so at first. But they'll learn eventually.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U47	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U48	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress, in your introductory part, you have noted that the extremes have been both left and right, and great success has been the consolidation of the central position in a literal sense. How do you feel? In fact, in order for this process to be time-changing and in such a positive search for democracy, we need extremes. We need the extremes to be there to be reflected. The limit of when such hate speech occurs at extremes depends on these individuals and perceptions as well. It seems to me that if there were no extremes, we could defuse very quickly and not understand or understand the processes that we really need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U49	Thank you, Urmas! The question is, this 'normal curve' applies everywhere. If there is the middle, there are extremes, otherwise there is no purely mathematical possibility. I have to say that polls have also shown from the very beginning, since the 1990s, that there has always been, of course, one such on-the-pronged part of the Estonian people, and I do not want to say specifically about politicians in the corner, I am saying that this has been among the people, there have been a certain percentage of people who have basically an angry attitude towards anything. It's natural, it's like this for all nations. At the same time, there is another extreme that includes different people. But the question is what is amplified and legitimized in politics. If our 5% electoral threshold really enables representatives of all kinds of views to get into Parliament, then it is perfectly normal, without it democracy will not work. We also wanted it not to be some creepy high threshold, even talking about wanting to lower it to 3%. But the question is also that media and propaganda tools are being used today so that certain extreme emotions begin to conquer the general public space and paint it emotionally in such a way that people's "choice clarity" begins to blur. There is a great deal of analysis of what took place in the Trump elections and what took place with Brexit. In Brexit's case, the way social media was used to reach specific people and really cause them such fear that now some horrible strangers from Poland, the Baltic States or Africa are coming and taking their jobs away. As the studies showed, these claims had a very strong effect where there was no real contact with such things, just such a bubble was created. Indeed, creating such bubbles in the new media environment is daily. It is used by advertising, it is used by commercial media and it has been used by politicians. This is what creates a situation different from the so-called normal democratic process.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U50	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U51	So, we are in the middle of a party meeting during the parliamentary work. One party is trying to impose its views and has devoted himself to the beating of another party. Now, that's why I don't believe in vocalism about LGBT, ethnic minorities or racist statements, because EKRE is a minority in the parliament of the Republic of Estonia. If you don't respect one minority, why do I have to believe that you respect homosexuals or anyone else? Minority is a minority. You come here from a power position to speak in the official language of the European Union how Estonia must behave. I think it's really ugly. I think that those colleagues who find it simply because someone in Europe has now come to say this are also very ugly, that some colleagues are significantly worse than others. It is unacceptable to me to bury one of the smallest groups. And now the moral question: do you think it would be morally appropriate if you came to drive your ideology during the parliamentary work, if we had to deal with issues related to Estonian legislation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U52	Igor, given your talent and creativity, I wonder why you're reading such a long text. However, as regards whether it is Parliament's job to discuss such general values, it is my deep conviction that this is Parliament's work. This is done both in the European Parliament and, I believe, in any other country in Parliament. Perhaps a little too little is being done in the Estonian Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U53	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U54	Our topics are very broad and, on an intellectual level, we will certainly be able to talk in general. Rather, the issue is the relationship between intellectual and so-called political practice. I have been convinced that psychological reality is very important, even if it is sidelined in an intellectual discourse. I think that the reality of historical experience is also very important. So I'm not quite sure it makes sense to go on with this. Estonia's historic destiny is to remain in some way, as Martin Luther said, that I stand here and otherwise I cannot stand against some pan-European decisions by opting for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U55	Absolutely. I must say that Estonian MPs have also taken advantage of this opportunity to be in opposition and to opt for it in the European Parliament. There's one thing I want to say right now. I am pleased that a conference will also take place on 9 October in the framework of our Presidency, which will discuss the relationship between the nation state and the Member State. By 'we', we are absolutely clear, I still mean the Estonian MPs belonging to any political party, who have always believed that the European Union is a union of nation states and that it has its strength. I am saddened to see those countries that have, say, Nazism's experience with extremely traumatic meaning, afraid of the word national. In Europe, people who live on our side, who have a very traumatic experience of so-called real socialism, also respond to the word social. These are indeed such, one could say, phenomena that prevent a peaceful debate. This question about the future of the Member States and what the nation state means in today's Europe has started to sound calmer and more serious than it was three years ago, when it was basically quite emotional. This, in my opinion, is also very much due to the fact that these 'new Member States' have, however, stood up for these things quite boldly. I remember when, for example, Slovakia was President-in-Office and the Slovak Minister for Social Affairs was also very clear in our group, so listen to the new Member States too, after all, we have our own reasons why we are different in terms of, for example, temporary labour, and now listen to us too, all right? I think it's very important that we now have plenty of opportunity to say that you listen to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U56	Honourable Riigikogu! Dear Marju Lauristin! The 30 minutes for questions and answers are over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U57	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U58	Initiators' next waitress is Actress Jaak Prince. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U59	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy last members of the Riigikogu and all those who sit on the computer and watch the broadcast instead of doing work! My name is Jack Prince. I'm an actor, and I'm scared. I didn't want to come here. When I was called and asked if I wouldn't like to talk again about matters that I've already spoken about, I said no several times because I was afraid and scared right now. I wasn't afraid five years ago, I certainly wasn't afraid ten years ago when I was young, my cells were regularly replaced, and I felt like I could do anything. Now I'm scared. I think you all know very well what I'm afraid of. What happens if I get out of here and walk out of your fortress into the city? What happens on Facebook, Twitter, commentaries, portals? I don't see it. I don't go to social media. There's too many beautiful people on Facebook. I could never get out. I don't see what happens, but I can feel it. However, it is not the most ingenious idea to come to Parliament to brag with your cowardice. The reason I am here today is very simple: it seems to me that I am not the only one who is afraid, it seems to me that the whole of Estonia is afraid. Who are you afraid of, Estonia? Are you afraid of Russia? Are you afraid of Europe? Are you afraid of refugees? Are you afraid of those who fear refugees? Are you afraid of too much meteor that one day will appear in the void and, without any logical explanation, will be heading our way? Are you afraid we'll disappear as a nation? Are you afraid that those who turn against other nations will also fall under the sign of nationalism? Are you afraid, Estonia, that there are too few of us? That's what you've always been afraid of. Are you afraid our language will fade away? Are you afraid of breaking our history, our culture, our future, our hopes, our dreams, or are you afraid, Estonia, that the drum of crazy change, which revolves in an increasingly hypnotic way, is shaking our little confidence? Are you afraid of poverty? Are you afraid of anger? Are you afraid of inequality? Because I'm afraid of all of this. But let me tell you about someone who's not afraid. Chris Nocco, according to the pictures, is about 45 years old. His hair is always short, it has brightened slightly in the sun of years and Florida, reminiscent of a sad tone of worn car tires. In recent years, the addition of grey squads has also been seen because its work is not easy. If you google him, you can see photos where behind his back is almost always the US flag: Chris Nocco smiling, giving interviews, showing a photograph of a prison refugee, sitting at an event with his family in the front row, the youngest of three children, just as a baby on his chest. Chris Nocco has graduated from several colleges and worked in law enforcement units on the East Coast for years. He was there when there was 9/11, and he was investigating Washington's shootings. He played good football in his youth, he belongs to the Rotary Club, he's an active churchgoer, his wife's name is Bridget, and for the past six years he's been the sheriff of Pasco County. It was only a few weeks ago that he made his last, drawn attention to the call. Don't shoot at the storm! ' said good Chris Nocco ('Don't shoot at the storm!') because people did it. A whirlwind, a hurricane of destruction and chaos, approached Florida, and people who sensed that they were about to experience an eternally changing event in their lives, in front of which they were powerless, gunned and shot at the hurricane. But it didn't stop the hurricane, the hurricane came anyway. I've never met Chris Nocco. All the information I just told you about him, I Googled online in four minutes and 22 seconds. Yeah, I started the stopwatch. I wanted to know how quickly it's possible to put together a more or less complete picture of some people I've never met or meet in the future. And all I needed to do to start making moral judgments about this person, for example, I could say 'bout' about him, was a decent router, a laptop, and 4 minutes and 22 seconds. That's how it works. Our worldview is no longer made up of experience. We no longer learn about another person or society by what we know about him, but by what they say about him. We live in a world based on rumors. Yes, of course, we cannot ourselves experience everything, for for for example, how can we determine the construction of the universe through personal experience? Do any of you know exactly what a milking man does with cows? We really don't know a lot of things, and then we trust others. But what if they lie to us, knowingly lying? Some fears are unfounded. But there are also fears that are justified, but there are really answers that could reduce our fears. Recently, I sat by the fire with my acquaintances on August night. It was already dark and in this darkness, of course, rumors moved on to what pleases us most and frightens us most to the future. My acquaintances, some of whom I have known for more than 30 years, thought it would not be good if too many refugees came here. And why shouldn't they come when they start receiving EUR 2 000 each month? I understand that fear, I wouldn't like it either. I think that would be unfair. Only when I asked people who are working on this every day and for years to comment on it, they said it was impossible, not a single refugee will ever get EUR 2 000 a month. Some people fear that the legalisation of the Cohabitation Act will result in their children becoming homosexuals. I don't understand that fear, but I'm still listening because you always have to listen. What if all research, practical experience in all countries, as well as biological patterns, confirms that homosexuality is not a hobby that is practiced, just as my brother collects match cups, but something else? That doesn't make these people's fear ridiculous. It is also feared that our language and culture will disappear when Muslim people come here. It's a perfectly understandable fear. This fear must be understood and spoken of, not humiliated, but not deliberately encouraged. I, too, would be afraid of the loss of language and culture, because both mean a great deal to me. I like traditions, roots, heritage. But if you look at the bill, if you look at the reality, maintain a calm mind and common sense, rather than listen to your fear, it turns out that no fact really supports this fear. In the last five years, so few refugees have come to Estonia that they can fit into a five-storey house, but since many of them have left, they could actually fit into a three-storey house. One three-storey house, good members of the Riigikogu! Two stairwells of people do not destroy Estonian language or culture, because our language and culture are not so weak that a single cooperative meeting would be enough to destroy them. But once again, I understand these fears. We must not say that these fears are pointless, but we must not whip up these fears either. We must not say that we have nothing to say to people who are afraid, but we must not invite people not to seek answers. If in 4 minutes and 22 seconds it is possible to create a picture of a complete stranger, imagine what can be done in 24 hours or in two weeks. Less is enough. It's enough to watch "Actual Camera" or open the newspaper in the morning, and our fears get food. And these are not fictional events, attacks in Turku and Helsinki, attacks elsewhere, attacks everywhere, as there are no fictional impoverishment and inequality. It's not just a pay gap or stratification, it's not an insult to gay people, it's not an insult to a neighbor. It's not the fear of the future, it's not the fear of someone else taking my job, someone more educated, someone cheaper, some kind of machine. We all know these fears, I feel them, and you know them. This hall, in total, owes more than EUR 7 million to the banks. What if you lose your job? Don't you ever feel that fear? All of Estonia is afraid, times are confusing, times are turbulence and they change quickly. What's it gonna help? I don't know! I'm an actor. To live, I run company parties and read ads from their competitors the next day. I have been able to set aside a little bit, so perhaps one day I will be able to buy a cabin that could be called home, but I certainly cannot recommend it to the country, because the country is our home. But there's an idea I'd like to share. The idea is simple, and he's like this: shooting at a hurricane is not the answer. Conscious and false hunting of fears, then handing out weapons and inciting them to a total bang, is not the answer. Please don't do that! Converting people's legitimate fears into votes is not the solution, but it is cynical political technology, in other words cowardice. But you know that. However, the solution is not to laugh at people's fears when these fears are considered meaningless when people are accused, why they do not already know the right information, why they do not sit in the OECD and OSCE reports from morning to evening and the lines down there that would alleviate their fears. You can't blame people for being afraid of what they're afraid of. Fear is real, no matter how unjustly it is, and it does not take away the ridicule of fear and does not help anyone to amplify his fears. Instead, the solution is in the sense of security that you Heads of State can offer us in difficult times. I believe that many of you are dealing with solving them instead of encouraging problems. I wish you a great deal of strength! But don't forget about us who are afraid. Don't forget to explain to us, talking to us, to us, who are your classmates, who we're gonna fix your teeth, who we're gonna drive you to work with Uber, or sell you flowers on women's day. Understand our fears, but don't cause them, because we are together in these fears, just as we are in everything else and always together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U60	The next rapporteur is Toomas Jürgenstein, a member of the Social Democratic Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U61	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! The Committee on Culture visited Finland last week. The Estonian embassy explained to us that speaking to Finns is an important pause that makes sense to the previous story. I admit, I would have liked to have had a resting break after the previous speech rather be a little longer. But, good listeners, in my presentation, I try to address nationalism, its spiritual wealth, and certain dangers that make nationalism poorer. I admit that a kind of alarm clock was for me to rethink nationalism about two and a half years ago by an IT company and the longtime Skype leader Sten Tamkivi's essay 'The Burning Cardin'. Sten Tamkivi has stood before us here too, on some other matters. I quote a few lines from this essay: 'I wanted to dwell on the third observation, which is much more worrying than above. In just a few years, Estonia's public space of thought has gone completely wormed. " A little later, Tamkivi continues: '... spiritually, a bunch of pure-breds have been released from the closet, who know that their troubles are not due to education or wit or reading or laziness or fate or happiness, but: different. ' Tamkivi here clearly criticises certain people's desire to raise nationalism based on opposition to the shield. I am a theologian in my most recent education, and therefore I will continue to refer to one of the first, perhaps surprising, Scriptural parables. It appears in both Matthew and Luke's Gospels and tells of the lord's giving his servants an equal amount of money and then going on a journey. When he has returned, his satisfaction will be enjoyed by those servants who have been able to increase their money most. From the cash, who has kept his master's money unchanged, the money is taken away and given to others. The point is clear: valuable and expensive things must be used, expanded, developed and changed if necessary. When I think of nationalism, I remember that story from time to time. First of all, being a nationalist is certainly a respectable and credible world-view decision. Every Estonian who attaches importance to and loves his language and culture must be a nationalist to a greater or lesser extent. At the same time, it seems to me that we have reached a point where a person who thinks he is a nationalist must defend himself with words that specify it. For example, writer Mihkel Mutt considered it necessary to clarify his national position in the recent Postimees article 'Two Hands of Woe'. He wrote: "The engorged nationalist is frustrated when he is considered retarded.... When he's given credit for feelings he doesn't share. His soul holds more than the opposite of either; for him, one victory does not necessarily have to be the loss of another. It is possible to remain true to Estonians and their other preferences, while others can live in children without harassing anyone. " In order to distinguish itself from nationalists who want to be opposed, Mihkel Mutt introduces the concept of enlightened nationalist. What is the stream of thought that results in the concept of an honorable nationalist becoming poorer? I come back to the world of religion. At the end of the 19th century, America developed a sense of thought called fundamentalism. By the way, on the recent evening of the Edmund Burke Society's discussion, the Society is engaged in the reflection and support of conservative worldview ♪ the writer Tõnu Luckapalu described it as wittyly foundationalism. This means that the view has embraced it as a foundation for a person. I will remain in a more conservative position here and continue with fundamentalism. I'll describe it in a few words. At first, this literal understanding of the Scriptures was characterized by denying and denying, for example, evolution, the theory of a big bang, and other naturalist self - comprehension. Fundamentalism is also characterised by the simplification of complex problems, the intolerance of diversity, the avoidance of the middle road, the seeing of the world as a battlefield for good and evil forces, the idealization of the patriarchal system and the inability to engage in dialogue. Religious historians have noticed that fundamentalism has long since left the religious sphere, and it occurs in almost all walks of life. Most fundamentalists are outnumbered, but they are loud and motivated. The dilapidated movements and thought flows of fundamentalism lose spiritual wealth and become encapsulated. If this happens to part of nationalism, it's very sad. Here are some examples of fundamentalism in our nationalism. I will stop, first of all, in the simplification of fundamentalism and the poor tolerance of diversity. I'm going over six months ago. From the New Year's Eve, one of the leaders of the party that called itself national at every step was reminded of the relief assessment of President Kersti Kaljulaiu's speech, as they thought he used too many words 'Estonian' and 'Estonian'. At the same time, it seems to me that these complaints underestimate the Estonian people intellectually. After all, the people have read that "Manifest for all the peoples of Estonia" has been written as one of the foundations of Estonian statehood. Remembering songs 'Estonia, your sense of man', 'Estonia, Estonia, you are my homeland' or the fact that in 1988 300,000 people gathered at the Song of Estonia event. I dare say that the identity of people who feel that the use of the word 'Estonian' or 'Estonian' causes something to be lost from nationalism is the right fragile and opposed. Intellectually limited nationalism can become an organisation where rational arguments lose their strength and only commitment counts. You can only sympathize with such a view of the world. Another feature I call the perception of the world is the battlefield of good and evil forces and the avoidance of the midway. I'm going to the world of books to give an example here. The Italian Giovanni Guareschi has written the witty book Don Camillo's Small World, which has also been translated into Estonian. It describes an Italian village where there are often conflicts between Communist village elder Peppone and local priest Don Camillo. A personal character is Christ, who whispers counsel to Camillo. Here I read a little bit, namely the story of Peppone's child's baptism: 'Amethiloos Don Camillo approached the baptism vessel. 'What do you want to name him? " he asked Peppone's wife. 'Lenin-Libero-Antonio,' answered the woman. 'Then go and get him baptized in Russia,' said Don Camillo calmly, putting the cover back on the baptismal pelvis. " If Don Camillo has refused, Christ says that he should still baptize the child. Peppone comes back to the church and a fight breaks out between the men. At the moment, Christ whispers to Don Camillo that he should give it to the jaw. Peppone falls down stunned. After a while, he'll recover, pick up the baby and come to Don Camillo's. I will now read: 'Don Camillo, in full service, was waiting for him by the baptism vessel, solid as a rock. Peppone approached slowly. 'What shall we call him? ' asked Don Camillo. 'Camillo-Libero-Antonio,' muttered Peppone. Don Camillo shook his head. 'No! We baptize him as Libero-Camillo-Lenin,' he said. 'Yeah, Lenin too. If Camillo's next door, guys like Lenin can't do anything! '' In recent months we have had interesting debates on Nazism, communism, liberality, conservativeness, right-wing and left-wing in our newspaper columns. Within the framework of these debates, I have sensed that it is quite difficult to find support for a number of important ideas in society, such as equality, nationalism, justice or freedom, on a moderate medium-based basis. It seems to me that one of the ways to maintain a calm and meaningful middle course is to remember, over and over and over again, the exaggerations of our own outlook. As a Social Democrat, I'm on the left on the political scale. In practice, the extreme left-wings have done great hogs, and they have often dealt with social democrats when they get in power. Nevertheless, the analysis of the extremes on the left also makes a conscience scratch. How can it be achieved by delivering such important ideas as justice, equality and nationalism to the socialists? As a teacher, I can't offer any help but knowledge to avoid extremes. Knowledge about the sources of different world views, but also about the waterfalls of the same world views, be it Nietzsche, Marx, Hegel or someone else. With regard to the central issue, I would also like to stress that passion must not be left to the extremes, but must also be left in the middle road. I come back to the previously quoted book. Don Camillo and Peppone go back to their truth like an Italian, temperamentally defending the right often by hand, fighting, but they join forces against the extremes. That is why I am extending the summary of the baptism chapter a little: where Don Camillo or Peppone is present, there is little to be done at the extremes. The third feature of fundamentalism is the denial of change and the inability to engage in dialogue. Let me start by saying a few explanatory words on what I understand by dialogue. The dialogue will take place when two people discuss and do not know what they think at the end of the interview. If they know that, it's not a dialogue, it's two monologues. There will be no dialogue enriching in a closed environment. The closed environment is often linked to looking back in time. Ideal time is seen somewhere in the past, further development has been a retreat from past ideals. They're fighting for their restoration. This understanding of nationalism can become a process in which Ivan Orav, a humorist figure, is becoming an increasingly serious example. This approach to life is opposed to the idea that the past has never been an ideal time in any sense. On many issues, we need to change and review our positions, we need to improve our knowledge, we can make our world a better place, learn from mistakes, etc. This dynamic and changing view of nationalism inevitably includes openness and dialogue. I also note here that openness is still made vulnerable by the fact that people from it are humanely trying to solve problems that are mostly not self-inflicted. Whether it is the protection of minorities, the pursuit of a fairer society or a more equal opportunity, these issues often require patience and perseverance, everyone has to sacrifice something, but dealing with these issues often also shows the world's solidarity, joy and capacity for development. An open nationalist, as I described him, takes a genuine interest in another. One can only imagine how fruitful his dialogue with the world's first cosmopolitan, someone who was opposed to nationalism and who was probably an antiquity philosopher, a member of the Cynic school Diogenes. We remember that it was an eccentric philosopher living in a barrel who thought that all social conventions were meaningless, as well as a pointless distinction between Greek and foreign. I want to stop using the words of two people that matter to me. An old priest named Vello Salo, who lives in Pirita and can sometimes be seen walking by a monastery, once explained in a lecture how the noble concept of 'piety' can be simplified and made unpleasant by piety. Secondly, Urmas Petti, a clergyman of the University of Tartu St. John's Church, still made a distinction between constructive criticism and destructive criticism. It seems to me that it is time to distinguish between diverse, generous and enlightened nationalism and its intellectually and emotionally cutting and humor-releasing cartoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U62	Questions for the waitress. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U63	Thank you. Your first speaker, Mr Lauristin, stated at the beginning of his speech that the basic European documents refer to liberal values and democracy. That's not true. It's about democracy. We are all witnessing how the so-called 'European values' label has imposed their own false values on society, which are in stark contrast with normal and traditional values. Where do you get the right to decide for a society of value and to impose it on everyone? It is clearly a move towards a totalitarian repressive society when one party dictates how people must think and live. Where do you get this right to be over the whole of society and your will to impose your own abnormal false values on all of us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U64	Thank you. That's a deep question. I was also surprised, for example, by yesterday's vote, when the new questioner confirmed that the Istanbul Accord was a conspiracy of sots, and at the end of the vote there were 80 people in the Chamber. I wonder! It seems to me that, when speaking about values, they speak above all about the very general principles that are already in the abyss of the religious world, such as the principle 'Do not do to others what you do not want others to do to you'. On the one hand, it comes from the Old China Confucius; on the other hand, Christ says it positively: 'Do as you want others to be with you. ' The kant rephrased it a little bit in its own way. The fact that one party may have more important values in terms of equality and solidarity, but someone involved in personal freedom, is a normal and democratic world, and that is what we live in.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U65	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U66	Thank you. Good waitress! I actually wanted to ask Marju Lauristin. It's a bit of a pity that you were inclined to socialize in that last response. [[Laughter.]] I would have given both of you sincere commendation that you did not tend to identify liberal democracy with social democracy and were perfectly balanced. But in general, you can ask the same thing. Can't you personally feel a slight crippling when your party's initiatives are going political, excuse me, but this is an ideological question that doesn't match that tone? They are rather quick, commanding, forbiding, and even centralizing. This liberal-democratic freedom of choice for a person, which is also very well emphasised by Mr Lauristin, does not, like, coincide with the initiatives and tones that not all members of your party represent, but still. Do you ever feel that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U67	Thank you. Yes, indeed, the question was to me personally. There's some berries sitting behind the bench line, and I'm sure you can ask him that. In this sense, it is relatively difficult for me to answer because I do not have an example in which I should have felt that way. This relatively short period of my being in politics before my eyes doesn't remind me at first sight, I really don't. But my memory isn't very good. It's quite possible that I've ever felt this way about certain things, but right now in this remote control, I can tell you on the heart that I really don't remember.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U68	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U69	Good waitress! Good manager! How do we view green movement as part of nationalism with environmental focus? We have considered ourselves a forest nation, but what is happening in Estonia is perhaps not always the most natural-friendly. Has the Estonians changed today, or where do we place this green view? Maybe this relationship with nature is just this liberal-democratic ghost, or is it something conservatively primitive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U70	That's a question I think I've been doing for at least half my life. I have two educations, the first is biology, the second is theology. If you put together the same nature and these things, the identity of the Estonian, it seems to me that my answer from this remote control would be quite chopped up. I sense that these things can be brought together, and certain such, say, issues relating to nationalism and identity are closely related to nature in our case. But I'll be honest with you, I'm not capable of bringing out these different stratifications right now. It's too complicated and complicated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U71	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! With the help of his fears, the previous waitress described the fear that some people might have that our language and our country might disappear. You also talked about nationalism. But if we look at ourselves more broadly and compare ourselves with other societies and countries, do you not think that a smaller nation must have a certain fear and reactivity in these matters more amplified than the larger nations who, figuratively speaking, could manipulate their nationalism more and nothing would happen to them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U73	Thank you. I really liked one of the lines in the previous presentation. I don't know if I quite remembered it, but it sounded something like no laughing at these fears. I think it sounded more or less like that. Yeah, I've been a teacher at a very good school for 20 years. If my children (I say this in a transferred sense) have studied in three to four places, London, Paris, Germany, they are, on the one hand, world citizens. When I meet them, I have, by the way, perceived the very beginning of the same fear that whether they are going to love this Estonia or whether Berlin is calling them a little harder. But if I've spent a long time with them, I'm mostly over that fear because I think they're coming back. But once again, these fears, which I have also felt myself, are undoubtedly natural, and I think the worst thing is to laugh at them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U74	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U75	Thank you. Good waitress, I...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U76	I cannot, Jürgen, give the floor to those who are not in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U77	Thank you. Let me remind you, then, of a few details to go on with the previous question. For example, this week a minister of yours hung on to my words when I mocked social media and attitudes there. He immediately translated my words into sexist. A few years ago, your chairman and your party unanimously attacked me when I used freedom of expression and expressed my concern that the inadequacy of self-consciousness and sense of society disgusts society. I would like to remind you of the gruesome use of words at the address of alcohol producers and the introduction of prohibitions instead of enlightening people. I would like society to rely more on enlightenment and freedom. That is what I meant with this question. Do you see any contradiction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U78	Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U79	Yeah. I may use one of the points in my report, which I think is very important. Such passion is not just the domain of extremes. I'd love for the middle ground to be protected with just as much passion as the extreme. Here, in my opinion, the key question is whether something constructive will happen after the blows have been shared, just as Don Camillo and Peppone did. I highly recommend reading this book, I think it has been translated in foreign Estonia in the 1950s. One example of how... Well, people count for themselves, now's not much time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U80	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U81	Thank you. You said earlier that supporters of all ideologies should know the theoretical roots of this ideology. I expect you to be perfectly familiar with the works and views of one of the key ideologies of today's social democracy, Herbert Marcus, which, in order for the Soviets to take power, must be demolished by the current social order, abandoned by the oppressed poor and proletarians, who were previously supported by them, and selected as new oppressed by different sexual minorities, etc. Your website doesn't say a word about your chief ideology, but your party will be immensely passionate about putting his ideas into practice. Do the ordinary members and supporters of your party know anything about this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U82	As regards the theoretical or philosophical basis of social democrats, I suggest you look at the encyclopedia. For the social democrats, it is always important that power is brought to power, and I hope that it will be achieved democratically. But as for the fact that we care about minorities, I promise myself a personal remark. I've often been weak in my life. One of the important reasons why I am a Social Democrat is precisely that I have been supported. Similarly, if the Social Democrats see that there are people in society who are being harmed and who are not guilty of it, we will naturally support them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U83	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U84	The election's in less than a month. How do you ethically assess the situation that the Parliamentary Tribune, television, etc. is being used for the election campaign of one party? I repeat: this is an election campaign, because one of the main features of the election campaign is labelling. Tagging here means that someone is called Nazis, fascists, using every option. In short, the ideological contradiction with one political party is being transferred to the elections. In fact, even this debate is in no way meaningful in the sense that the same Hungarian, Polish, Austrian, Farage, Slovak etc. is simply not spoken of because it is ugly. That is ugly from a socialist point of view. Agreed. But is it ethical to bring one of the halls of ideology to the people with public money three weeks before the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U85	I think, for example, that my presentation, when I spoke about open and enlightened nationalism, had more to do with conservatives than with social democrats. I don't recall the words 'natsism' or 'fascism' in the presentation by the Prince of Marju and Jaak. Maybe they were mentioned in passing. It seems to me that this question is not entirely appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U86	The time for answering questions is up. Thank you, Toomas Jürgenstein! I will open negotiations and, at the initiative of the initiators, the representatives of the political groups will get the floor first. As a representative of the Group of the Mart Nutt Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U87	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Democracy is the power of the people. Modern democracy requires a majority to decide, but a minority will be guaranteed the right to express its views without fear of punishment or persecution. In practice, democracy is realised through regular free elections. Minority rights must be guaranteed by law and the state must actually protect human rights. In order for democracy to function, freedom of expression must be guaranteed, allowing public control over the activities of power. Once these minimum democratic standards are met, we can say that the country is democratic. But in order for democracy to survive, there is also a need for defence mechanisms that balance the dangers inherent in democracy itself. There are cases where democracy has been eradicated democratically. Hitler came to power in 1933 in democratic elections. In 1933 the authoritarian constitution was adopted in Estonia in a referendum. There are also examples from this century. Estonia is a democratic state and our constitution has succeeded well, ensuring separation and balance of powers, but is everything as the Constitution says in real life? Is the Constitution a sufficient guarantee for the protection of democracy? Democracy remains in the balance of the authorities. If one branch of power achieves too much weight, or worse, the perfection of power, then democracy is at risk. The 1920 Constitution gave the Riigikogu power and the ongoing government crises that undermine democracy led to the loss of democracy. Similar developments occurred in the last century, the 1920s and the 1930s in many European countries. In Estonia today, too, there are obvious urges to balance, this time rather towards reducing the role and decision-making powers of the Riigikogu and increasing other branches of power. A draft direct election of the President shall be initiated at least once during each formation. However, even if the President's powers are not changed, the directly elected President will acquire authority, which will give him much greater weight in influencing decisions. The idea of experimenting with large-scale direct democracy is popular, but the problems associated with direct democracy are not seen here. Is direct democracy more legitimate than representative democracy? It can be said that if the referendum has a high percentage of participation. However, the legitimacy of the decision on a low percentage participation, a narrow majority vote, is more questionable than the decision of Parliament. As we know, Swiss referendums often have a very low percentage of participation. Clearly, it is easier to manipulate referendums than with Parliament, which depends on the organiser's wallet and media relations. People's initiative is often a small but influential group of people's choice of majority. The road to referendum through the popular initiative has already become fatal to democracy in Estonia in 1933. The democratic nature of direct democracy can sometimes be seeming and become a lump in the hands of a dictator. The transformation of the Riigikogu into a rubber stamp means that the executive power has taken over all the decision-making powers and the Riigikogu merely legitimises the decisions of the government. In fact, the concentration of power that is worrying is not in the hands of the government, but in the hands of the government authorities. And the efforts to centralise are getting stronger and stronger. For example, if the Ministry of Finance becomes a super ministry and the rest of the government is only its branch, then Estonia's democracy is facing a serious challenge. We can be sure that cutting the composition of the Riigikogu will only reduce parliamentary control over executive power. There is simply no need for constitutional justice in the Nordic countries. Central Europe does. What is Estonia's choice? Replacing a working order with a stranger is rocking a stable democracy. Is the danger that the Constitutional Court would force the power of the people into the will of the narrow circle of persons credible? Yes, it is. The Constitutional Court would add nothing to ensuring constitutionality, but there would be a corporate body, essentially the upper chamber of parliament, which would filter the choices of the representative of the people. There is no need for such a plague on Estonia. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U88	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U89	The Riigikogu has occasionally been accused of not being able or willing to adopt the laws prescribed by the Constitution and the idea of filling the void with a court. Unfortunately, in a democratic country, Parliament is free in its decisions. When the court takes over the role of a representative of the people, we can no longer talk about the power of the people, but about the dictatorship of the court. That's what President Maduro did in Venezuela. Fortunately, the Estonian Constitution does not allow such a transfer of power from the elected parliament to the appointed assembly. In many countries constitutional oversight does not fall within the jurisdiction of the Court, but falls within the competence of Parliament. Or this competence is shared, for example, in Finland. In Estonia, the jurisdiction of the court and the Riigikogu in constitutional supervision is balanced by the institution of the Chancellor of Justice. The Chancellor of Justice plays an extremely important role in balancing powers. People must be protected against attacks and hate speech arising from racist, settled beliefs and many other circumstances. Human dignity is an important cornerstone of a democratic society. However, the border between political correctness and freedom of expression is often airtight. When political correctness becomes a censorship, democracy only loses it, not wins it. There is simply no democracy without freedom of speech. Tolerance is not tolerance if it is selective and becomes labelling and disparaging to anyone. The challenge of democracy is also the expansion and deepening of civil society. NGOs play a central role in involving people in the decision-making process. From time to time, however, it tends to be forgotten that civil society and democracy are not alternatives but a whole. The attempts to contrast civil society and NGOs with parliamentarianism and representative bodies indicate that the nature of democracy has not been understood. The democratically elected Riigikogu is the forum representing the broadest population. No civil society or their roofing organisation can replace Parliament in this. The Ice Cell and the Cooperation Council are good signs of the development of civil society, but not an alternative to parliamentaryism. Democracy is powerful but also fragile. A sequence of unthinkable and irresponsible decisions can destroy democracy. Individually, they may be undetectable, but with devastating effects. If every possible populist initiative, such as the direct election of the President, the replacement of parliamentarianism on key issues by popular initiative and referendum, the reduction of the composition of the Riigikogu, the creation of the Constitutional Court, the establishment of censorship to prevent inappropriate expressions, we have successfully got rid of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U90	Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U91	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! After all, the concept of democracy is extremely broad; there are a great many different aspects. If the Free Party were to hold a debate on a very important national issue here on the same subject, then, I think, these emphasis points would be very different. I quite agree with everything that Mart Nutt said above, and I will not repeat these aspects. Marju Lauristin quite rightly outlined the European policy picture in the European Parliament's example, which the EKRE started to adjourn from the second corner of our hall. I have experience with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and I can assure you that the left-wing and the right-wing are still very similar at times. But one addition I want to make is that no view of the world, no belonging to a group, gives a priori some kind of ethical quality. Here was the Laundromat case a little while ago, where Azerbaijani money was washed in a bank operating in Estonia, which in particular reached European politicians who have systematically dealt with Azerbaijan's so-called democracy at European level. I can assure you from experience that I have seen that there are such people in all political groups. So there's so much to add. I liked the fact that Marju Lauristin began with the concept of freedom. As far as the social democrats are concerned, it is my understanding that, in the case of the dilemma of 'freedom equality', you attach more importance to equality, which sometimes also endangers freedom. This may be a question of a world-view axis, but I think that both liberals and conservatives actually have one common task of reintegrating them around the concept of freedom. In my deepest understanding, these two approaches do not have to contrast with each other, because they are from one another. Edmund Burke was a freedom philosopher. Liberals tend to emphasise more personal freedoms, Conservatives have an aspect of social continuity and sustainability, but there is no need to break it through extremes. I am trying to give a small overview of the problem of democracy in Estonia's recent history. I very much agree that Estonia's independence took place under the flag of freedom and democracy. The use and creation of all the institutions that brought us this freedom was a very good example, including the movement of citizens' committees as an outstanding citizens' initiative. And the restoration of independence as a democratic procedure was something very shiny that we moved forward on. The problem of democracy began to rise very acutely, in my opinion, during the X Riigikogu, in 2003-2007, but in fact these processes were already mature. What was left of this era? The attempt to ban local electoral federations, which were largely supported by parliamentary parties at one point, by tripled public funding for political parties in such a way that it started to exclude new potential entrants from coming for self-insure purposes, the ban on unsuccessful outdoor advertising, which has now been mentioned and which actually brought the election campaign forward. All major parties can use outdoor advertising. We're tracking those who make their little ad on A4 they'll be punished if they put it on a plank somewhere. I remember that time. At that time there were two political parties in the X Riigikogu who answered these questions. They were the then Fatherland Union and the then Moderate. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U92	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U93	The next wave, which spread over the head, I skipped one of the compositions, was during the XII Riigikogu, when Parliament was impoverished by four parties. This greatly curtailed our discussions and then came about 'Helps with false politics! ', 'Harta 12', the people's assembly, etc. with their proposals. And what did we actually achieve with the proposals of the people's assembly? Almost nothing. Yes, the limit of the party's creation was brought from 1,000 people to 500. It was all under the auspices of a lack of political will. In fact, nothing changed, and this will came to be expressed in this Riigikogu composition by the Free Party. I now appeal to the initiators of this debate, the social democrats. I have reviewed the things that have been initiated by our group. The transition to the so-called open lists in the Riigikogu elections has been completed, and this draft has not been submitted to the second reading. We also brought this issue into the local elections. Soon we will see what the result of these closed lists is when the Tallinn Council is elected, how the council will be formed. This bill was also rejected by the socialist voices. The inconsistency of local and Riigikogu mandates, i.e. "preparation of decoy ducks," was again rejected. And repeated and repeated proposals to reduce the public funding of political parties, to change it so that it is more equal, reasonable and less restrictive for potential new policy-makers or hindering their competitive conditions, too, you have rejected it. So I am calling on you to support all these initiatives in full concrete terms in the future. This abstract debate on democracy may not lead us as far forward as we want. And finally, I think that this so-called new hot pair of Estonian politics, the so-called EKRE, has its own truth in it. In fact, the emergence of EKRE is also the result of some of the processes I saw in the previous Riigikogu. For example, the law on cohabitation, which was made very dirty, was left to flutter until the next Riigikogu, instead of peacefully regulating civil partnerships, as has been the case in many countries. So, as I said as an initiative, the Free Party's approach to these issues is different from that of the Socialists, but there are overlaps. I hope that you will continue to express these overlaps by supporting our specific initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U94	On behalf of the Group of the Hanno Pevkur Reform Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U95	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good Estonian people, who are looking at us now! Creative people have still helped the pains of society vividly and simply to highlight it even if no one else dares. That's how Jaak Prince, whose talent I have, by the way, greatly respected, came here today and told his story about fears. Well, he did, because this speech clearly showed that the facts do not fight emotions and that the sowing of fear is more likely than the fact. I am sorry that the democratic debate on democracy did not allow questions to be asked democratically. The hall of parliament should be the temple of democracy in Estonia. When it comes to democracy, democracy cannot be restricted. This is no longer a democracy, but a targeted democracy, which belongs to the practice of another country. I believe that many other than me would have been pleased to hear the answers of the Jaak Prince to the questions raised by his excellent speech. I'm sure there's a lot of ideas in the Jaguar that didn't fit in. Then the debate must continue in the corridors. I sincerely hope that the debate on democracy will never fail in society, because, as President Meri once said, 'Peace, stability and human rights are too high values to be dealt with only during the Christmas turkey holidays. ' But, ladies and gentlemen, does anyone in this Chamber raise their hand up and say, 'No to democracy! '? Absolutely not. It is understandable that the understanding of democracy in this Chamber can vary quite a bit. However, I am certain of one thing: democracy can only be a free man and a free country, which is why it is extremely important to talk about people and human dignity, about what remains of the health of society as a whole, about respect for one another. I find it difficult to understand any extreme views, even when someone takes the right to an absolute monopoly of truth. Let us not forget that we are all people with our understanding and feelings. And as people, we have the opportunity to be human, but also the responsibility to respect and accept others around us. For rulers, democracy means taking into account, among other things, the will of the people. The people have given political parties a mandate to take decisions here in the Riigikogu. Looking at the desperate desire of recent sots and EKRE to contrast extremely with each other, I recall that neither the socialists nor the EKRE have the opportunity to say that neither of them are suitable for this hall. Whoever fits in this hall or not can only be said by the people. Opinion polls in recent months show that both the EKRE and the Soci have similar popular support, and I recall that both have been completely democratically elected here. You have the right to hate each other, but that doesn't mean you have the right to go to extremes for the sake of differentiation. The extreme in any form makes the country evil and undemocratic. Unfortunately, the undertone of today's debate also bears some of the seal that the initiators of the debate would like to have the only title of true democracy. Each of us has a constitutional obligation to respect the diversity of opinions and to accept differences as long as it is not dangerous to anyone or contrary to the law. We're all different, and that's what makes us strong. No one has the right to judge anyone for being fat or thin, tall or short, light or dark, married or not. We all have the right to our own opinions and feelings, including feelings for others. Nelson Mandela once said: "No one hates another man at birth because of his color, origin, and religion. Society teaches people to hate, but if they can be taught to hate, they can also be taught to love, for love is more natural for man than hate. ' Ladies and gentlemen! Love is not a disease. Not even if it's between two people of the same sex. No one has the right to judge anyone for their feelings. It is acceptable that no one likes it, but it is unacceptable not to respect the life and fate of another person. Just think about how a young boy who's been playing football with guys all his life and who, when he gets to a certain age, discovers that he's different from the others. Can we see inside the person he may feel? Could fear or despair be in his soul, that he would not be accepted as such? Or we could take a dark-skinned student who's come here hoping to get a great education but has to experience street mockery and violence. Have they done anything wrong that they are different from what they used to be? Let us try to put ourselves in their shoes and think about how they might feel when they are unacceptable. Christian space is based, among other things, on the general principle that you do not do to others what you do not want to be done to you. We don't want fear and despair in our country. We want peace and security, a life of dignity and fear. We want happy people to live in Estonia. We have no one in a position to plan the twists of life or to write a scenario. Fortunately, daily life is not a prescribed piece of theatre, but an adventure full of unpredictable events, which we, as people, write every day in history. It is up to us whether these lines contain honor and dignity or evil, hatred and hatred. In any case, I believe in the Estonian people. I believe in the nerve of the backbone of our common freedom, which prevents us from forming into the same evil grey mass, which gives us wisdom and common sense, not to label or insult, but to honor and accept each other, regardless of gender, race or skin colour, by sticking to the meaning of our constitution and the values it describes. In any case, the Reform Party stands uncompromising every day and always defending democracy. And finally, it all depends on us how friendly and benevolent we live in and how we make it. It depends on a politician and a farmer, a tailor and a driver, a teacher and a poet, me and you, a good compatriot. Good luck developing democracy for all of us!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U96	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U97	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know where the group that initiated the debate has gone, but we are here. I am not going to hang out with the previous speaker, but I think the Cohabitation Act is an example of how bad things are with democracy in Estonia, not how well it is with democracy. I think that the most substantive and important role of today's debate was, however, the very first speech, and that is what I want to do most of the controversy. Let me ask you one more question: did you not forget the last word in the middle or in the title of the second speech? It was not that we had to be afraid, but that we did not have to be afraid of questions. But good. Now to liberal democracy. We have seen that there is no such thing as liberal democracy contractually fixed in the basic documents of the European Union, it is just democracy. We are very well suited to democracy. We are just fine with democracy. Democracy is something that we think works in Estonia, less and less, of course, in the European Union, but good. If we go into what is the definition of the spokespersons for liberal democracy, if we look at this catalogue or nomenclature, for which all the people who are wanted to be classified as liberal democrats, it is quite obvious that liberal democracy is almost synonymous with social democracy. These are dogmas or doctrines of a social democratic worldview or ideology that are being forced into our heads by means of the praises of liberal democracy. And it is claimed that we must all hold a debate in a democratic society within this narrow framework, within the limits of this narrow vocabulary and its narrow dogma, which the Sogma have written to us. They claim that if you step out of this, you are anti-democratic, because the only form of democracy that we are allowed in today's Europe and Estonia is liberal democracy. I'm sorry, it all smells like a craving for authoritarianism. It all smells like one truth. It all smells like you want to put your truth on everyone else. And this, of course, can only be followed by the demonstration of its political and ideological opponents and the overhearing of hysteria against them. In his speech, Mr Lauristin said nicely that there are certain variations in this Chamber and also in the European Parliament, but these variations must remain within the framework of liberal democracy. No, you don't! And I didn't get an answer to my question. Is it acceptable to him, in the opinion of the sots, for example, to President Kaljulaid, who is also eager to talk about liberal democracy, however, also to talk about conservative democracy, nationalism in conditions of democracy? Or do all nationalists, all Conservatives still have to write down liberalism with two hands, or the basic truths of social democracy, and then, within this narrow frame, their own positions somehow twisted, somewhat suppressed, somehow semi-voiced, only with the vocabulary that political correctness prescribes to promote? To be honest, we are not going to go along with this set of rules at all. This set of rules we trample consciously and shamelessly under our feet. We are talking with the words we want, the ideas we want. And as you all have already understood, it speaks to a considerable part of the Estonian population. It also speaks of a considerable proportion of the population of other European countries and of the American population. It has its own support in a democratic society, its own support society. We will not ask anyone for permission as to how we will represent our voters with ideas, with themes that we will discuss with narratives that we will represent with truths. That's how we represent, as we represent. There is one more thing, of course, that really, really, really bothered me with the presentation by Mr Lauristin. That was that patronizing cocky attitude. It turned out that Estonian politics are a small glass of water, there are storms in a glass of water. It turned out that Estonian politics needs civilization for 20 or 30 years already. The people standing in the Baltic Way were barbarians. They were barbarians from somewhere between the swamps, from the trees and from the villains, who did some funny things and who, as Marju Lauristin said, still have to learn to eat with a knife and a fork. That's what hurts. It's gonna be awful, it's gonna be painful, it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be hard, but we need to be civilized. Excuse me, we don't need to be civilized. We need to oppose the decadent pathologies of Western Europe. What comes from there is not civilization. This is our twisting, the import of these social downfalls here. We don't agree with that either. Of course, it must be repeated again. Point one: In the post-truth era, it is, of course, hopelessly double-faced, not to say false rhetoric. We were told something about the fact that a scream or an article can upset society. I remember from the time of Vao's fire the screams of social hysteria. So far, there is no clarity about who did what, but we all know that the Estonian people were collectively responsible for this. I have a complaint to those socialists who say something about creating an atmosphere of fear. Järva-Jaani Gymnasium was released by a member of our party for writing an opinion article. It was run by the Soccer community. Our member was released from the Rakvere Theatre for attending a demonstration to protect family values. Silence! From the camp of the Sots comes only the sirina of the crickets, no atmosphere of fear! You can do it, you can do it, you can do it. But if someone breaks a sign somewhere, it is a sign that we are inevitably rolling towards dictatorship in Estonian society. Our posters are broken every week. We've made a statement to the police every week. There's no way you can hear the whispers crying about the climate of fear or the collapse of political culture. I do not agree that conservativeness is classified as hate speech or nationalism is branded as some kind of Nazism. The sticking of such labels is the attacking and undermining of democracy, and this is something that is clearly dealt with in today's Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U98	Barbi Pilvre, please, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U99	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I want to touch on the Russian question, which is one of the key issues when we talk about democracy in Estonia. We have mentioned the cohabitation law and the fear of refugees here today, but the default prerequisite for this discussion is, in fact, the Russian question and the national issues on the agenda every day, which are the main issue of our local elections. I once had one of the editors where I worked, Mr Andrei, a nice, polite, intelligent and almost accent-free Russian young man speaking Estonian. He got along well, but that communication was never free. It is common for work to have conflicts and to be evil, but none of the Estonians ever dared to convict Andrei. Friendlyness toward Andrei was a fake and an effort. Integrated Russians are usually treated by Estonians in silk gloves, with caution, as if they were afraid of breaking them. Is it really gratitude that they have learned the Estonian language? Or is it the usual courtesy of communicating with a stranger, which indicates that one can handle one another, but is not considered to be one of us? You're brave to have a fight with someone like you, and you prefer cool courtesy in a conflict with a stranger. In Estonia, the terms 'non-Estonian' and 'Musician' are clearly used, instead of using the term 'Russian Estonian'. Studies have confirmed for years that the opportunities of Russians in Estonian society are not equal to the opportunities of Estonians, even if there is more or less good education and language skills, as well as citizenship. Sociologists call it a glass ceiling phenomenon. All the prerequisites for success in a profession are there, but some silent agreements mean that success will not come. Smart terms refer to the lack of social mobility of Russians compared to Estonians. In many institutions, such as services, we employ young people with Russian names and even flawless Estonian, but in our off-duty lives, everyone prefers their own social networks. And I'm not talking about virtual social environments here, I'm thinking about the company of my kind in real life. This is perhaps why the Russians' so-called progress in Estonian society remains modest. So today, we are talking about the subject of integration and integration as anxiously as we were a few decades ago, as if nothing had moved, despite the huge amount of resources being used, both money and people. By law, but also by default, it is impossible in Estonia that there are too many Russians where real decisions are made, i.e. at the top of society. There are wealthy Russian characters in the business world when you look at the wealthy charts. Their activities are mostly related to transit and actually take place outside Estonian society, is international. If these business figures were as influential in Estonian society as, for example, Sõõrumaa, Neivelt, Teder, Meerits, if some Russian businessman had a similar social position, a red light would ignite in many places, as there would immediately be a feeling that the foundations of Estonian statehood are at risk. In Estonia, even money has a nation. Russians are often sought in the councils of influential institutions in society for the purpose of communicating with the Russian community, but they are difficult to find. While the Russians' competence is seen first and foremost in the nation, the situation that the Russians are 'they', that is to say, discrimination, negative discrimination on national soil, is compounded by the fact that the Russians are 'they'. The construction of the Estonian nation state has been successful in the sense that the Russians have been involved in Estonian life without the need to consolidate on national soil. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U100	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U101	Fortunately, we do not have powerful Russian parties because there are no charismatic leaders. At the same time, Estonia's population is declining unequivocally. We need labor, including brains that are scarce. Estonians could now apply their own natural pragmatism and admit that it is more beneficial for the future of Estonia than the young Russians who were born here would not feel excluded and would not go looking for happiness in other countries of the European Union. This is not just a task for the state, but every organisation here could think with a clear head. Instead of dreaming about the Hindus and the Chinese, let them deal with the local Russian youth. Perhaps what calms the spokespersons for pureness of the breed, as well as the inner little nationalist in all of us, is that we are genetically almost the same people as the Russians. We are connected by a Finno-Ugric substrate detected in Russian blood. The Social Democrats are convinced that the Russians should be a part of us, be ours, not non-Estonians, foreigners or other aliens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U102	On behalf of the Group of the Peeter Ernits Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Professor Lauristin! A few colleagues! Yes, indeed, once Lennart Meri asked where we were coming from and where we were going, but in the meantime the world has changed completely, globalisation, the emergence of the Islamic extreme, the migration crisis. By the way, I recall that the migration crisis broke out after it was decided that Arab countries should also be blessed with liberal democracy. Result: The local hard-handed leaders were wiped out and anarchy was unleashed, the fruits of which we still eat today. Luckily, they managed to stop it for at least a while. So the answer is no longer so clear here, and my question is how far liberal democracy can go at all. The preamble to the Constitution says that we must ensure that the Estonian language and culture continue throughout the ages, especially in this Chamber. But how can this be achieved in this windy land? Yes, strong liberal winds blow in Europe. How can we achieve that Estonians with both black and yellow skin will sing 'My Fatherland is my love' at a song festival or why not 'Home'? Is it possible and real? The acting prince here said he was scared. Five and ten years ago, he wasn't scared. It seems to him that the whole of Estonia is afraid. He warned us that we were afraid of losing our place here, ladies and gentlemen, because you and I have a $7 million loan burden. I'm honest that I don't, and I'm not one of the ones who's afraid of it. But I'm scared too. I have three daughters, and I see signs that the Estonian language is likely to fade. I hope this does not apply very much to Estonian mind and culture. My children carry all these liberal democratic views. Yes, liberal democracy emphasizes personal freedoms, but how can such an attitude ensure the guarantee of the Estonian language, culture and nationality throughout the ages? If we're talking about Dad wearing a skirt and Mom may have a beard, I'm really scared here. And as a Member of Parliament, I must do my utmost to ensure that these fears do not come true. We are saying here that the people must not elect a president, otherwise we will have the same terrifying sultan as in Turkey. The Centre Party has come up with this proposal 11 times here, and I'm not afraid we can get the Sultan. But as a result of liberal democracy, our presidential candidates toured Estonia all summer, after which a small group was gathered, the quota was distributed, and we also received the President. Or another thing, that e-elections should not be called into question. The Centre Party has indeed questioned how verifiable this is and so on. As a result of the same liberal democracy, individuals of 80 and 105 years of age will be able to express their true opinion fairly massively. Is this what their direct democratic desire and their choice are? Which Europe are we going to, I ask. Towards an alliance of nation states or a federal formation? I'm telling you the truth: I don't like what's going on in this hall. Let me be clear: what is going on here is an example of President Arnold Rüütel's home party. As a biologist, I know that competition is the sharpest in the niche where... Just a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U104	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U105	In this same niche of the rippers, the fight is the sharpest, the bloodiest, the most ruthless, toothless against the tooth of whom. And indeed, our dear coalition partner, socats, and EKRE are rattling in a niche about a third-fourth place. In so doing, President Rüütel's home party is on a clear upward trend. What did I hear in this chair today? This is the periphery of society, I quote. The key figure for restoring independence, President Arnold Rüütel's home party, therefore represents the marginal part of Estonian society. Really? I would remind you that thanks to him two thirds of the Estonian people supported the accession of the European Union. But President Rüütel and his party are concerned about the emergence of continental states. I'm worried too. I would also like to remind you that, some time ago, Estonia's sovereignty was a matter of national importance here. I remember well that the hall at the time was almost empty. So there is some progress to be made at the moment, and colleagues think it is necessary to sit in this Chamber, although you can also watch it on TV. So actually, we should talk more here, not humiliate anyone or say that one is right and the other is wrong. It's not pretty to start a speech meeting here before the elections, of course, but there's a lot more to talk about here. And I would stress that we have in our hands the question of how to ensure that the Preamble to the Constitution is fulfilled in this windy country and in the circumstances where we are now. The other way is to take that sentence out of there, but I don't agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U106	Honourable Riigikogu, all the political groups have given their speech. I think it is a good time to vote on the proposal by the Group of the Social Democratic Party to extend the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group to extend the working time of the sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. There are 20 members of the Riigikogu in favour of extending the working time of the sitting, no respondents or abstentions. The working time of the sitting has been extended until 14 p.m. or the agenda has been exhausted. Let's go! Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U107	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, guests, rapporteurs in the debate on a crucial national issue. Basically, I approve of your initiative. There has been a lot of criticism here that you are using the pre-election situation to make propaganda for yourself, but I suppose that goes with politics. Politicians are also people, and people, as we know, are as big a pig as they are allowed to be. I didn't mean to call you pigs, I didn't mean that. Sorry again, I didn't mean that! People, of course, take advantage of the opportunities that certain procedures and frameworks give them. That's why I wouldn't complain about it. Nor would it complain that you have put on the agenda a topic about the dangers, opportunities and all of this of Estonian democracy. I think it is topical, because what we are seeing in Estonia for a long time now is worrying, not only in Estonia, but also in Europe and America, so let's say in the Western world. When Barack Obama was elected president of the United States, the extraordinary clouds of concern began to rise over the Western world. It was a real start-up bang, how I say 'liberal values', I do not want to say that, in order to be forced to enter societies, to have the brain edge. And now we see these results. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the initiators of today's debate. I don't think you can sense, nor can the waitresses perceive what kind of world-view conflict we are at the heart of. This is a conflict between the liberal and the national conservative world. It is a conflict between globalisation and national rule. It is a conflict between the interpretation of voluntaristic human rights and conservative family values, national values, moral values and also religious values. This conflict is fundamental and profound, and in this conflict the liberal side is clearly losing the support of the people. When we talk about democracy and its dangers, we see how this liberal side is currently threatening democracy. What did we hear today? Lies from this podium! Direct lies from the mouths of the esteemed representatives of society, which are not based on truth. I will also give examples of discussions, news and opinion articles in Estonian media during the last few weeks. When Varro Vooglaid, head of the Foundation's Family and Tradition Protection Foundation, wrote about the speculative discussion that in the event of the coming to power of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, funding could be withdrawn from one theatre because the programme of this theatre is left-liberal, what happened then? What happened was that a few days later, the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party and the Minister of Culture said in a specific way that the EKRE would close the theatres. In fact, Varro Vooglaid is not a member of our party and we do not have a direct connection with this foundation, although there is a certain moral connection. That's a lie! It's a misdirection of the leaders of your party. Why you're lying, I'm asking. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U109	Does this also apply to liberal democracy when a political competitor is lied to? Today it sounded wrong that we were Putin's henchmen. Thank you. We are the most determined opponents of Russian imperialism in this country. We don't shop in front of the Russians unlike the left-wing liberals. And there was a kiss-up speech here too, which brought the focus on how we should still have a completely different way of communicating with the Russians. We do! We're straight with them, and let's say we're not in front of you. You are in Estonia and be like Estonians. And by the way, they respect that very much. In this very hall, a Russian national colleague told me a while ago that you were a fucking nationalist, but you're an honest person with a spine. I respect that assessment. We are at the heart of a great conflict. And, you see, respectable liberals, this does not only apply to sots, it also applies to reformers, to a lesser extent to the Centre Party, which is hesitant in its liberality, your over-stretched, perverted human rights spiced policy is what has given birth to Brexit, which has given birth to Trump, which has actually given birth to our party and which has given birth to the growing reluctance of the people towards liberal democracy. Believe me! Our cannon is less caliber than your cannon. The media, as we know, have hijacked the left. By the way, in the 1920s, Oswald Spengler wrote about how money hijacks democracy. But the money, in turn, remains under control. Let's call it that. We do not know what will happen to Western society, because Western society is being shaken by very serious storms right now. They say we're scared. We don't scare, you scare us! You're scaring us, but we're not scary. I warn you that you should accept our very moderate existence. Yes, I agree that Estonia is small and Estonia does not determine the fate of the world. But if you do not accept the request for Poland and its sovereignty, Hungary and its sovereignty will not accept the request, then one day you will have something very terrible. A lot scarier than that monster you're scaring right now. I'm not Spengler, but I'm telling you, something really scary's gonna happen to you. I'm not threatening. It is not I who will then repress you. But believe me, accept democracy and stop this liberal democracy propaganda! Democracy gives us all room for breathing and, in the face of political competition, finally decides who is supported by the electorate. But if you make society the only standard...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U110	Warning: Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U111	(I'm just finishing up!) ... liberal democracy's so-called values, then something bad happens. Think about what I said!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U112	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U113	Mr President, I would like to ask for more time now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U114	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U115	Today's item is entitled 'Dangers and challenges of democracy in Estonia', but it has not actually come directly to this issue. First of all, I must say that the current approach and structure of this item has failed, in my opinion, in at least three aspects. Firstly, in the case of the parties who are debating here, the general tendency has been to uplift themselves and dismantle others, which is not the best way to hold a political debate. Secondly, we have learned that improvements to the Rules of Procedure are likely to have to be initiated, because we do not have a restriction on political culture so that this kind of events should not be carried out during election campaigns. We do not need to repeat this race in the coming years. And the third point is that... I forgot. If you remember, I'll tell you later. I'll make some comments on what I heard today. These are not very systemic comments, but I think they are still appropriate. I'll start with Mr. Prince. I really liked the list of his fears. I've been thinking about it, and I feel those things myself, not all of them, but most of the fears. And I think they actually exist in society. This is something that needs to be dealt with. Smaller differences of opinion are, of course, that I think that some of the fears he listed are not very serious and some seemed to be 'produced' or 'pressed'. But it's what it is. I also have one more personal fear that keeps haunting me here. This is a fear of the potential negative consequences of both the work of Parliament and, more broadly, the various steps taken by the country. It's a rare thing to hear about, but I could probably cover all day with examples of how the good will of the state and the rulers has had the opposite consequences. I want to thank Mr Jürgenstein. There's no irony in what I'm saying right now. It would be a good thing if we had more frequent selective readings of this kind. I can't read much more. And besides, I really like it when people who have a different reading than me share their experiences. If it could be pushed to the Rules of Procedure, or if something like this happened outside the Rules of Procedure, I would certainly be there every time I got there. Now Mrs. Lauristinis. This word set 'liberal democracy'. I am afraid that the introduction of this pair of words, in particular, in Estonia and in the non-English part of the European Union, is not very successful. I once translated into Estonian the book "The Future of Freedom" by an Indian American journalist, Fareed Zakaria. Since he has received a classic English education in India, he devoted a lot of words in that book, probably necessary for the American readership, to what in the history of English politics has been this complex of developments called liberal democracy in England. It was about the beginning of World War I. The question is how much it will have later and even some kind of constructive function. I don't really really like all sorts of things, no matter what they are, these general words, it's better to talk about specific things. What Mrs Lauristin said, I agree with almost everything. Maybe I'd say these things differently. I also agree with the other rapporteurs today and listen to them, by shutting off all other experiences, I ask why I do not belong to their party or why they do not belong to my party. We talk and think the same way, we want the same things. That's the problem for me. I have now been here in the Riigikogu for over two years and have been in contact with the Socialist Group and their members in the Commission on their various initiatives and behaviours. And I must admit, my dear Marju Lauristin, that I have not had any experience in this two years to confirm this impression from today's ear. Something's not right here. I am very grateful for the fact that I was once brought to the topic of party funding by an analogous item from the social democrats, and I will always be grateful for that. But my own negotiations on whether we can move forward together in any way ended with the fact that one of your party's prominent leaders told me that the current situation would fully satisfy them. Here, the same scissors that I said today arise between practice and theory. Now, there are all kinds of problems in the European Union. I say that the European Union is in crisis. You can't analyze it here. It is quite certain that if Estonia remains democratic and there are still opportunities to organise itself here, the problems that exist in the consciousness of one group or another of the Estonian electorate, whether they have a psychological, historical or some economic or social background, will be the basis for the emergence of new parties. And these new parties are generally acting as disgusting as all the new parties in the world. I think that is one thing we must inevitably accept, and that is basically less bad than the other bad things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U116	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U117	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U118	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, Liberal democracy is a meaningless term; there can be no illiberal democracy. Democracy itself contains a requirement for freedom, a requirement for personal freedom, a requirement for freedom of expression. When we say liberal democracy, we are actually talking about a liberal-capitalist democracy that contrasts with a socialist or conservative view. We're campaigning with convincing definitions. But I am now going to Estonia's democracy as such and as it is now. Today's item assumes that we should ask questions about this. Electoralism, an electricist democracy, we obviously have elections going on, does not show that they are largely counterfeited. Political parties exist, they compete, they can arise and disappear. We have problems, of course. We can vote before the election campaign is over, i.e. during the pre-vote. We do not have a secure secret voice when giving an electronic voice, the fact that the voters are not affected, that relatives and acquaintances do not control it or that no one is voting in their place at all. The counting of these votes is unclear. But we cannot say that the Estonian elections as a whole are not democratic. Electoralism, however, is not enough; there are other countries with more or less decent elections that are not very democratic. Democracy also requires that the'agenda' be approved by the citizens. The country's agenda is what we do in this hall with the legislation program. And only those things that have been approved by the voters can be on this agenda, and they will be presented in elections. All Estonian governments have initiated legislative changes that have not been included in their electoral programme. For example, in 2015, almost immediately after the elections, the government came up with higher education reform, which had not been discussed at all during the elections. It is certainly not democratic. Very often officials have come up with the idea of changing the traditional names of bus stops, for example, without a public debate. Officials aren't elected at all. Every time a legislative initiative comes from officials and does not come from politicians, it is a step away from democracy. The legislative programme must be approved by the voters. Next, we need to discuss this programme, and this is also one of the problems that exists in Estonia. For example, when you look at the Estonian media, the political principles of the two large daily newspapers are largely similar. There's no confrontation between them. There's very little discussion about the status quo. If someone who is a politician or a non-politician comes up with a debate that is very different from the central floor, then usually they react either by killing the messenger, showing that he is some kind of individual weirdo, completely silenced or held up a discussion at the level of advertising waving labels but no intellectual exchange of views. I have seen that the only serious issue that is more or less allowed to be debated is tax issues, but also in a limited way. There can at least be a democratic debate about graduated income tax, and there is some debate. Although I am saddened to admit that when I read the tax disputes that took place in 2000 and 2001, they were more meaningful. There were a lot of different programs. The Reform Party won that time, but I think the program was badly implemented. Now is the time to start a new discussion on the substance. Parliament must be able to control the state, it must be able to control the government. That is Parliament's task, for which the voters have delegated us here. Not every voter can always do this, but individual voters sometimes have to do it and do it. But our task is to control the government, and I have this feeling that the control of the government by the Riigikogu has been greatly weakened over the last 15 years. The government is, of course, in a privileged position: they have ministries, they have ministries officials. The members of the Riigikogu do not even have one advisor. Of course, I would very much like opportunities such as those in the US Senate and the US Congress, where each member has 10/15 advisors, but we could also find one unfortunate advisor for every member of the Riigikogu. This would greatly improve the work of all of us, improve the work of the government, if the opposition criticised them not with slogans, but with substantial work, and vice versa. Another problem, which has been very clear in Estonia's democracy over the last 15 years, is 'ghettoisation'. If we have a party with great electoral support, but who is always excluded from the government, even if we have fair elections, a multi-party system, etc., then we are also putting democracy at risk. You can exclude it in any way. One can exclude you from accessing the media, whether for money or because certain subjects are not allowed to be discussed. Demontion can be ruled out, i.e. such parties can be called a foreign agent, a traitor of a nation, an organization of criminals, a destroyer of freedom, whatever. If we label a party with substantial support like this, we can no longer hold a discussion. We are taking away from voters the opportunity to give us our agenda and we are not in a position to discuss different political views. If we ghetto parties, as the Centre Party and Savisaar have been ghettoised, and as the EKRE is now being ghettoized, we are actually taking a step away from democracy. Yes, democracy is the rule of the majority, but the rule of the majority, where we have a consensus, which is the limits of power. Most people can't do everything either. And within these limits of power, we must be able to agree. Otherwise, we could end up in a situation, such as Venezuela, where we cannot compromise at all, because any decision we make is totally unacceptable to some group. This is the future we should avoid. And in order to avoid this, we must first emerge from the fact that we ghetto some topics, some opinions, some ideologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U120	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U121	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, the few who are in this Chamber! Many thanks to the initiators, the Group of the Social Democratic Party, because this is a very important issue. And I am pleased that this issue can also be discussed here, except with one small exception: one speaker who has not been able to ask questions could not be discussed. Unfortunately, I arrived at the sitting halfway, because today there was also a meeting with the officials of the General Affairs Council of the European Union to discuss the future of the European Union. I think that this is also very important in the context of Estonia, and the future of the European Union also depends very much on the future of Estonia and precisely on the democratic future. So I had to read the speakers' speeches in the verbatim. My soul, too, was disturbed by the statement of our Member of the European Parliament that we will become more civilized, learn to eat with knives and forks. This immediately reminded me of the question of the democratic purpose of the Members of the European Parliament who have been elected from Estonia to represent Estonia in the European Parliament. Is it to vote in favour, for example, of a resolution calling for a change in the Dublin system and for permanent migration quotas to be considered? Last April, the Member of the European Parliament who was present here today also voted in favour of it. Is it their job to call on the European Union to impose sanctions on Hungary, whose government has democratically chosen its own people? Is that their mission? I don't think so. We are therefore talking about a democratic system in the European Union that is very hollow. How can we follow liberal democracy when the highest authority in the European Union, the European Commission, has not been chosen by anyone and the European Parliament, where we have only six ambassadors, has no power? And even these six ambassadors are voting against the national interests of Estonia, for which I undoubtedly hold at least control over our migration policy, but they voted in favour of the resolution to think about permanent quota systems. The representative of the Social Democratic Party Group mentioned the topic of the term that 'non-Estonian' should not be said about the Russian person, 'Russian Estonian'. I do not know how well this is in accordance with the democratic principle and whether the majority of Estonians in Estonia would agree that we are afraid to say 'non-Estonian', because maybe no one likes it or does not like it by any party, and we must begin to say politically correctly 'Russian Estonian'. So what does ethnicity finally mean? Today I am Estonian, I wake up tomorrow morning and I may be Swedish, the day after tomorrow I would like to be Lithuanian. The Estonian does not become another nation overnight. Such a call for us to start sucking up to somebody, squeezing around to make somebody like us more shows a typical mentality, which is more found in some parties, in some less. But for God's sake, no one will be hurt! As Mart Helme said, we have indeed received support letters from Estonian Russians. And we also have several Russian candidates in local elections, for example, who say that it is the only right thing to say that Estonian is the official language in Estonia. Education must be in Estonian. Estonia has its own constitution and according to Estonia's national interests, we have the right to do these things and it is up to them to accept it. It is up to them to adapt to our rules laid down in the Constitution. You don't have to come out of this hall with some flickers saying that let's not say 'non-Estonian', say 'Russian Estonian'. This story went on to businessmen, so why are we making distinctions when we talk about businessmen of Russian origin while we talk about Estonian businessmen in a different context, such as Sõrumaa. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U122	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U123	Are we talking about businessmen like Oleg Ossinovski, who are currently being tried in Latvia and who were doing business with Russian Railways? No one in Russia is known to do business without being a friend of the Kremlin. This is the person who has donated to one of the parliamentary parties here and whose son is the chairman of one of the political parties. Do we need businessmen like that? Is it bad for us to be a little more timid, more modest, and more cautious about certain individuals who may be involved in forces that are hostile to us? Anyone who is not cautious or modest in these matters is simply stupid or naive. The chairman of the group of the largest opposition party complained very strongly about interfering with people's privacy, no one can feel love in their family, no one can live a full life, because there is always someone who comes to scold. I think this is a very good subject for talking about democracy. Is it democracy when one thing is said during the parliamentary election campaign, but one thing is done in the inter-election period? For example, one law that divides Estonian society as a whole is suitable and the majority opposes it. This law was pushed through right here in this Chamber, knowing that it could not be implemented during the parliamentary term at the time. Is it democratic? It was known that this was going to the next round. That's why, by the way, there's a faction in this hall that you guys screwed up. Is this in line with democracy? Finally. Who doesn't remember the future... Whoever doesn't remember the past lives without a future. I'm sorry. Words get messed up, because what the past offers us is pretty depressing. Remember: 12 March 1934, the establishment of a silent era, one of whose chief leaders was the Social Democratic Party with the Chairman of the Riigikogu August Rei. The Communists of June and June 1940 were remarkably many of the representatives of a party. So there is no point in looking to the right corner by me that there is a threat to democracy. On the contrary, we want democracy, which is democracy, and which is not only ideologically attributed to liberal democracy. It's the power of the people that decides. And if the people choose a pleasant parliament, this Parliament will do what the voters, or people, expect, just as it is in Hungary or Poland. If there is public support, then there will be. So we can see a threat to democracy in the case of certain older parties who ignore all kinds of democratic principles and try to push through decisions in this Chamber that are not supported by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U124	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U125	Thank you, Vice President. The threats and challenges of democracy in Estonia. What is democracy to me? For me, democracy is free to decide for itself. But we forget what freedom is. Freedom is responsibility. But do we understand what responsibility is? I'm afraid if we pull a diagonal line from here to there in this hall, we'll sense that the concept of responsibility has changed from one end to another. That is, in my opinion, the threat of our democracy and, at the same time, the challenge. It is not worth tagging 'we' and 'you' here, but we must understand that regardless of what -ism we represent, which party we represent, we are chosen here to be responsible for our people, to be responsible for the Estonian state. Therefore, it is very important that we make a difference between what we say and what we say in the sense of whether it actually has the basis of truth. Yeah, well, I'm straightforward by nature, but frankness doesn't mean conscious provocation or conscious lying. Our society is tired and therefore seeking solutions in black and white, but sorry, our lives are not black and white. Three years ago, the Free Party was founded. What was the reason? The reason was what the rapporteurs have pointed out today, too, that the solutions do not mean that there are no "middles." But it's feared! If you have noticed the behaviour of the Free Party Group, which unfortunately is sometimes ridiculed in this Chamber, then it is stressed that our ambassadors have the responsibility to defend the interests of their constituents. And what if, therefore, in the group, the voices split up. We are not here to carry out the personal matter of the Free Party, but we are here to represent our own people. And it would be fair for you, everyone else, to do it. What would I have expected from today's headlines? We primarily want to define democracy through political actors, but it is not just this. We have a very large partner, and that partner is the media. I ask whether, as a part of society, the media also bears the responsibility to make a distinction, which is false news, which is a provocation, which is a glamour, which is a reality, which is content and what is apparent. This is also the way we see the Riigikogu, and then it is easy to decide that the legislator is a marginal executive, actual power. The Constitution does not say that, the people do not say that, but we let it all be because we are comfortable with this system. It's irresponsible. There are a number of other examples that could be given here, but let me give you one aspect. They asked me what I was afraid of. I fear that in our society, there is a growing fear of dialogue. Monologists are loved because it is easier and surrounded by a protective wall. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U126	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U127	My concern is that the civil societies and civil activists affected today have also gone along with this fear and comfort. I look forward to what will happen in this Chamber next Thursday, when we will once again discuss the role of the NGOs and their financing as a matter of national importance. Yesterday morning there was a preliminary meeting of the respective support group, which made us wonder whether we were still free and courageous as a society. I admit that freedom is not stupid, but freedom has to be and is a responsibility. I invite you all to think about what we say and what we do. Let's think about what we're doing in these municipal elections, in a situation where we manipulate people, that we're wonderful people, that we can sit in two chairs, serve two masters at a time. No, it would lose our commitment, our understanding of what reality is. Let us put an end to the appearance, to the preservation of the values of democracy, and let us not ourselves distort them, and this has been done here for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U128	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U129	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party who are still here! This isn't about you. We are talking about Marju Lauristin, who did not consider it possible to participate in the discussion of the Estonian Parliament and left in a bitter manner, like the other initiators of this debate, who read their mission to be fulfilled after you had shown up here in front of the microphone. So, where does the end of democracy begin? I hope Marju Lauristin listens somewhere. The end of democracy begins, as I told him in 1989, with labelling. In short, you say 'Nazi', 'fascist' or something, you shut the brain down, and the political problem seems to have been solved. It is a methodology from which Marju Lauristin, the leader of the Popular Front, began, and it has not been reduced in Europe. Let's remember how we greeted the new parties that came here. When EKRE came here, how many people were there who said that boys, welcome, here you can now make a real policy, look and ask if there's a problem? I don't remember anyone telling them that. There were some, including not only the sots of the party, who saw their sworn enemies in them, not political opponents, but enemies. Now let's ask what caused the hysterics. Where do these stupid taggings come from? There was talk of Vao today. Do you remember Vao's fire? Do you remember how you were doing at the time? You all shouted hosianna from the socialist to President Ilves, who then ordered the Estonian people to be ashamed and, as a subtext, to search for a white young man, preferably with EKRE links. And when it turned out he wasn't there, Ilves and you all didn't care what happened in that fire, where it went on, and so on, because the circumstances didn't match the sign that was supposed to be there. EKRE and many other people who share many of the views of EKRE do not come from heaven, but they represent the same views as Austria, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, very many Finns (e.g. the Indigenous Party), Nigel Farage, Jörg Haider, and so on. What is wrong with these views? I ask you again, tagging: do you realize that you are pouring poison? I understand that the current Social Democrats are not Bolsheviks, but at the moment when they start talking about national-conservative and normal right-wing movement as fascism, Nazism, racism or something like that, they are bolsheviks, because that is the Bolshevik method. And the problem with us, probably Estonia, is that, at the moment of bolshevism, we do not have another extreme to oppose the social democrats, because the EKRE is too centralist and too polite a party. One thing that was mentioned here, which I do not understand, and which is a sign of nothing, is European values. I've asked you in the hall and I'm gonna ask you once again, name one. And it turns out there aren't any! No human life, no property, no honor, no dignity. So what's a European value, where do you find it? I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U130	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U131	I'll tell you where these liberal values are. By the way, one of the most immoral people in the world is Erasmus Rotterdam. Well, look how that person lived. It was an apotheosis of European values. Do you want to be a slug like him, Erasmus Rotterdam? European values exist. True, not in life, but they exist in an ideology that no one dared to name on this remote control. (Do they speak up? May I continue? I'll have half a minute, please. I couldn't, because this Jürgenson... I mean, there's no point in telling the wall. )
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U132	Mr. Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U133	These values exist in this single document, which has never been mentioned here. It's not safe to name it because the label isn't right. This is Jesus'Sermon on the Mount, but no one dares to call it, for it is also an expression of intolerant religious fanaticism. In other words, if we do not recognise our Christian origin, if we do not recognise the Christian content of liberalism outside religion, remember that the European value should sound as a warning to you! It is a European bolshevism signpost, litmus paper. As soon as a person talks about European values, open your ears. He's gonna lie, and today was no exception. I would like to address you with a very specific proposal. Parliament is not a place for circusing and European ambassadors travelling around who come to teach us and not to listen are not welcome. We're ready to talk to them in other formats. But so with each other, one extreme party we also have, especially on the left, on the extreme wing of one extreme party, I want to say that you know what: words come and go, love stays, try to understand, try to understand! And what is said in the forbidden book? 'Do not seek the splinter in your brother's sight if you have a reward there. ' But this book is not politically correct. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U134	Jaanus Marrand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start with the criticism of the previous speaker's mistaken speech. There's nothing we can do, it's got to be dealt with. The previous speaker talked a lot about tagging here, but he was also tagging himself. No one in this hall used the words 'fascist' or 'brown shirt' today. No one even talked about European values. The only one who referred to European values in terms of transfer was Toomas Jürgenstein, who spoke about Christianity. But what we talked about here today for a very long time and a lot was liberal values of democracy and liberal democracy. Liberal democracy is not really a word; it is not a fiction or invention of one party or another. These are the values that we all showed very well yesterday in this very Chamber in the case of one vote on the vote on violence against women, where votes were divided, if I remember correctly, either 79: 7 or 80: 7. You could say the King is naked, but that would be too much. The chairman of this group himself said here today that they do not recognise the values of liberal democracy, that liberal democracy is not a value at all. It can therefore be said that, in this one model vote, the goats were separated from the sheep. I'd rather call it that. It's not tagging. It has been tried here to show that liberal democracy is somehow opposed to nationalism. It's not the opposite of nationalism, dears! I would remind you that the Estonian nation state was established very clearly on the basis of the values of liberal democracy, which were expressed in the constitution adopted by the Constituent Assembly in 1920. It is very clear that there can be no public privileges or evil rights depending on birth, religion, gender, rank or nationality. Thus Estonia is in the 1920 Constitution, which is the embodiment or confirmation of the values of liberal democracy. This is, by the way, one of the most democratic constitutions in Europe. Liberal democracy is a way of thinking, a system of values that also fits very well with conservative friends from the Free Party or the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. It includes representatives of liberal politics, but also social democrats. It's a system of values. At these times, when we lost our independence and re-established our country, one of the leaders who excited the people at the time remembers Marju Lauristin, who was here on the floor today. He made references to that time. We also took it as a result of long debates, once again bringing together the various parties, Mr Adams, Marju Lauristin, a well-known liberal with a long political memory, or all those people who were in the Constitutional Assembly at that time, to adopt a constitution that dealt with liberal democratic values. The 1992 Constitution stated that no one should be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, sex, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. This is very clearly a liberal democratic value. And those who deny these principles actually deny the basic principles of the Estonian state in themselves. That's how I see it. I am not saying that liberal democracy is some sort of absolute value system, but here, in our cultural space, it fits very well. And not European values, but precisely the formation of a system of values based on Christianity was very clear here in his presentation by Toomas Jürgenstein. Now, if we go from here... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U136	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U137	The truth is, the world has become very small. As came out of today's presentations, the handling of this world is one click away from the people of the world, different points of the world. Yeah, it's called "globalization." Yes, technology has made this world smaller. We understand very clearly that this means the movement and participation of people, massive, closer communication with each other. And that also means that there will be problems. There are people who don't understand these changes. A hundred years ago, when a circus came into town, a bearded woman and a black man were also shown. It scared some people, some people wanted to kick their ass. Today's world is different and we need to understand these changes. Certainly, this same phenomenon of globalisation, such as the refugee crisis, which is indeed calling these liberal democratic values into question, raises questions in us. It's like fear a hundred years ago. And those people who don't understand these things often show their opinion more irritablely, denying these basic principles. But what are our choices in this small world? Do we really have a choice? What is the result of greater chaos when we realize in our increased association that we have to respect people, universal human qualities, without sharing them in good and bad, beautiful and ugly terms based on some common trait (e.g. race, creed), or when we say that these values are not important to us? On one side there are the values of liberal democracy, on the other side it means nothing to us. In which case is there a greater chance of chaos in this society, in our European cultural space? I think that if we abandon these liberal democratic values, there is a much greater chance that chaos will occur in our cultural space. Perhaps we must recognise other people's differences, we must be able to understand them, and in this understanding these very values of liberal democracy lie in them. That is a matter of principle. It is pretty bad if we start to amplify these fears, which people quite naturally experience, and what Jaak Prince also expressed here, in order to reap political profits. It doesn't go right, like a classic said. I think the winds are blowing and the passions are raging, but the basic values that are already in place in the original Christian documents remain. In this way, this planet, our continent and also the state of Estonia can be a place of residence that is acceptable to all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U138	Henn Põllamaas. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U139	Exploiting the debate on a matter of national importance before the elections to spread its own political agenda and ideology and to dismantle political opponents is extremely low and cynical. But what else to expect from the socialists who tried to make it clear to us here that Estonia and Estonians are no longer concepts that would be appropriate to use. We need to replace them with Estonia and Estonians, to reach a new level. Unfortunately, the representatives of the sots who have spoken here have not read the Constitution, which says literally that the state of Estonia has been created in the undying right of the self-determination of the Estonian people and in order to preserve the Estonian language, culture and nation. This was established by a social agreement at the time of the re-establishment of the Estonian state. Is anyone trying to say it's undemocratic? But we really see that there are a lot of speakers. Political opponents will be tagged. Intolerance against them has become so extreme that the chairman of the Sots even declared at Congress that nationhood is an inhuman and dangerous dystopia from the 19th century that society is full of national vomit and idiots. If this statement, which was approved by the congress on applause, is not contrary to the principles of our statehood, unless it runs counter to democracy, what is it? This is not one example, but we can give dozens and dozens of examples. Only recently, an article published in Sirbis called a song festival some kind of Nazibakhanal and brainwashing young people. And when EKRE, who is the root of all evil and evil in the opinion of the Sots, rose up to defend our national traditions and customs, so did the leaders of the Sothians, Ministers Saar and Mikser, who declared that the EKRE had seriously violated freedom of expression and that they were willing to stand up for freedom of expression even to the death. But where was this stand for freedom of expression when Sirp refused to object to this completely absurd article? Then there were no such things anywhere, then no one defended democracy or freedom of expression. I still remember how in 1988, Marju Lauristin, who was here today with such a patronizing speech, taught us and gave guidelines on how he was free after Estonia's great event in the singing field, what was its title, 'Estonia! ', 'Estonian flag' or 'Estonian song of freedom'? In an interview, he said that he felt fascism was born in the singing field. And if you experience the fact that the Estonian people feel together as fascism, feel elbow feeling, pride in your past, your customs and tradition, that we want to continue and continue, then forgive us! The words were read here earlier that no one can say who has the right to be in the Riigikogu. But I dare say to such statements that such a party who shares such views does not have a place in Estonia. We see every day how the Sots try to redefine value space, how 'true European values' are intended to be given some sort of, completely distorted meaning, and how those who try to hold on to traditions, family, everything that has borne us for thousands of years are attacked. We see how the Socats distribute our taxpayers' money to some kind of non-profit organization, who exactly represent the false values raised by the sots on the shield, how millions are distributed to the LGBT Association, Estonian Human Rights Centre, Feministeerium, Oma Toale, etc. Without public funding, they would not exist. At the same time, these same associations are making homo- and so-called gender propaganda for state money in our schools, taking the country to court for the protection of homo-marriage and immigrants who do not have the right to be here in Estonia, etc. By the way, Margaret Thatcher once said that if you're in government, they usually make a financial loss: they spend other people's money. And that's what we see every day. There was talk of a national initiative today. It was shot down in a whirlwind. This bill was probably only created to channel the tensions in society, the frustrations of those worried about democracy somewhere. All the proposals were rejected, including the extremely important opportunity for a popular initiative in a democratic country, which we had in the 'first republic'. The representative of the Sots, who was involved as an expert and a decision-maker, said that the popular initiative is not suitable for the current Estonian system due to the low level of political culture. Päts once called the Estonian people a low-level sick nation, but it was the same people who created and restored the Republic of Estonia. Replacing today's debate with a monologue is anything but democracy, because the members of the Riigikogu were not even given the opportunity to ask questions. Time's running out, I could talk here for hours. In conclusion, I must say that in this compound word'social democracy' there are two absolutely exclusive words. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-21_U140	Ladies and gentlemen, No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Thank you for this debate! I would also like to thank the main speakers, wherever they are now! I very much hope that we will all be back in this hall on Monday and that the numerologists who interpret the Bible will be wrong, that the world will survive after Saturday. See you later! Closure of the sitting at 1.44 p.m.
