ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will start the 10th working week Thursday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible for all those who wish to submit drafts and questions. First, Jaak Madison has expressed his wish. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Conservative People's Party Group will initiate a draft law amending the Penal Code. In particular, it is an amendment of § 145, 178 and 179; it is a tightening of the penalties for sexual offences against minors. According to the current law, the maximum penalty is, for example, the abuse of a minor, paedophilia, up to three years of imprisonment, which is certainly too lenient in relation to other levels of punishment. According to our proposal, a maximum sentence of up to 10 years in prison and up to 15 years in prison for multiple offences can be imposed for a number of crimes. We also believe that a very big problem is that, figuratively speaking, when a 65-year-old gentleman sleeps with a 14-year-old child, it is acceptable under the law in force if it is done voluntarily, with the consent of both parties. We do not think this is acceptable and poses too great a threat to children who need greater attention and protection. Therefore, we also believe that this paragraph needs to be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U3	Next, please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U4	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I have to hand over a draft law which amends § 381 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure by rewording it. The origin of this case is that in September 2017, Chancellor of Justice Ülle Madise approached us and asked us to initiate a legislative amendment to ensure that the property damage caused by the intentional offence of a local authority official is recovered. In the current legal area, if the local authority does not claim the damage itself, no one else has the right to recover it. In such a case, it may be either stupidity or malicious agreement, in any case it is clearly a corruption-stricken matter. The Chancellor of Justice also pointed out that this would create a situation where committing a crime could pay off. Our proposal is that, in such cases, if the local government does not require the damage to be paid, the prosecutor could do so, and if the damages are found, it would go to state revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. Of course, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing on the basis of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take control of the presence. Checking for presence. 76 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; we are missing 25 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U6	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have an item on the agenda today, which is an important national issue: 'How to deal with crises in agriculture? ' a debate has been initiated and initiated by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, could you listen a little bit to what is going on here? It can affect the course of our day, depending on how much you can ask and how much you can come to this remote control. If other conversations are important to you, you can have them somewhere else. But, on the proposal of the EKRE Group, we are now putting in place the next procedure. First of all, Mart Helme, a member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, gives a presentation that lasts up to 10 minutes, followed by questions and answers that last up to 10 minutes. Then there will be a presentation by Rando Värnik, Professor of Economic and Social Institute of the Estonian University of Life Sciences and Head of Economics, which will last up to 20 minutes, with up to 20 minutes for questions and answers. The third presentation is made by Kalle Kits, the leader of the Valgamaa Farmers' Association and member of the cereal panel of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. This will last up to 15 minutes and the questions and answers will last up to 20 minutes. The fourth presentation is from Tõnu Post, the head of Kõljala Agricultural OÜ and Saaremaa producers' association, as well as the chairman of the rural group of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. His presentation lasts up to 15 minutes, and the time allowed for questions and answers is up to 20 minutes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a member of the Riigikogu can ask up to two questions to each of the rapporteurs. After the presentations there are negotiations where members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. It is proposed that, when it comes to negotiations, the representatives of the political groups should speak first. If we conclude this debate, we will not take a decision. As the day moves forward, we can see whether or not we need to extend today's sitting, we will come back to that a little later. However, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has in any case proposed to extend the sitting if necessary, but no longer than two o'clock. Okay. Mart Helme, member of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, has been asked to speak first. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U7	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, guests and waitresses! I would say that our debate today 'How to deal with crises in agriculture? " is quite pretentiously headlined. If we approach the matter in a Stalinistic way, it can be said that we can manage very easily: we eliminate agriculture because there is no human problem, agriculture is not a problem, nor is there a problem or a crisis. But this, of course, is a failed joke. In reality, agriculture is an area that is not only important economically but also important from a social and security point of view. But, of course, he's also important from an economic point of view. If we look in the mirror, we'll see a representative of the rural people there. The Estonian people have always been rural people. What has happened in the last decades of the 20th century and in the first decades of the 21st century is a huge qualitative change in our national sense of feeling. We have, you could say, become mostly urban people as a nation. We may not have sensed how hugely long and responsible the decisions we are making, among other things, from a rural and more restricted agricultural point of view. I will bring you a very simple but at the same time very thought-provoking thought. It has been acknowledged that we are at the end of the age of the great-grandmothers of the earth. What does that mean? This means that most of the people in this hall have been to the mother of their own country, and if not, maybe to the grandmother living in the country of a friend or friend, and have seen fresh jam boiled there from freshly harvested berries, they have eaten pancakes with this fresh jam, they have been to the barn, they have drunk milk from the milk of a milkmaker, and maybe they have seen the chicken or cock beheaded, they have plucked it and put it in the pot. They saw a pig killed for Christmas and made homemade blood sausage, blood spills, or other homemade food. This era is over or almost over, and its end has largely been caused by the changes that have taken place, but also by the decisions we made 25 to 30 years ago. I don't want to criticize those decisions. I do not want to initiate any pointless discussion here on whether Estonian agriculture was defeated by Mart Laar or by someone else. I just want to point out that the decisions we make today... By the way, this is russicism: kotorõje mõ segodnja rešajem. I'm sorry I use Russian! But I draw attention to the coming into our language of the russicisms. In Estonian we should say 'now'. The decisions that we are making now affect what will happen in 20 to 30 years' time. Indeed, from this point of view, it is extremely important that we do not make the same mistake as we did in the 1990s, for example. At that time, I worked for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and was also an ambassador to the Russian Federation. Then there was, incessantly, the issue of how to eliminate double customs in trade with Russia. It was a topic that was discussed forever in this Chamber, in the press, in international meetings, and God knows where else. Look, it was a pointless discussion. We wasted time and energy on a pointless debate because it was known that Russia would not lose these double bars and we did not have the levers to force Russia and other countries, many of which were among others our competitors in the agricultural field. This issue was not of interest to these other countries or was only interested in the view that we would not be their competitors on the Russian agricultural market. But we spent an enormous amount of time and energy on completely unnecessary debates, fights and accusations. We must not repeat these mistakes now. For this reason, I would like to point out in one of my small introductory speeches that, now that we are receiving agricultural subsidies from the European Union, if we have the opportunity to find markets in the European Union too, we need to think about how our agriculture and farming in the wider rural area are the backbone of rural life even after the European Union. Right, right, you heard right, even after the European Union. Nothing is eternal, nor is the European Union eternal. I am not pointing out here that agricultural subsidies in the European Union are falling because, fortunately, they are not falling sharply, we have a certain period of buffer, although they are decreasing. When we look at what is happening in the world today, when we look at Europe's increasingly declining competitiveness in the world, when we look at rising nations, countries and markets, it is clear that we need to think much further and much more multilayered than we have done so to date. In our eyes, agriculture has become an increasingly economic phenomenon, a phenomenon that must bring in money for farmers, farmers, farmers, people who find work in this area, etc. But it is not that simple, because agriculture and rural areas have many more aspects. I would say that the most important thing for us is our survival as a rural nation, so that it does not happen that we no longer exist as a rural nation at all, and that happens, as some in this Chamber have suggested, that people who have been created in the countryside should drink themselves to death. It is such a Stalinist approach that if there is no human being, there is no problem. There's no way we can agree with that attitude, we can't agree with that. Social aspects and the survival of our rural population are at the heart of agriculture and regional policy. Its second core is security policy. An empty country cannot be protected even in spite of the best will for defence, and an empty country is neither a rear nor a buffer for us in security policy when serious crises arise. Then it's not like you're going to take money out of the wall or stick the card in the machine and pay your bill and take everything you need from the store because the cow milks in the store, the pig leaves its hams in the store, etc. I remind you that I'm already mature enough to remember what I remember from my childhood and what my parents told me. During World War II and during difficult times, my parents rode bicycles to the country and changed clothes for food. There were farms, and even during the most difficult collective farms, it was possible to get chunks of meat, eggs, etc. Would that be possible now? The answer is very simple: this is not possible at the moment. We don't have that kind of security buffer today. It's a place to think. Again, this is a situation that has arisen as a result of certain decisions and those decisions have been taken a certain time ago. I understand my time is up. I was able to make a very brief and far from exhaustive introduction, but I am glad that we have real specialists here who are able to shed much more light on all the aspects that are being discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U8	Good waitress, I'm sure you can further elaborate on your thoughts if you answer your questions. The first question is Laine Randjärv. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U9	Thank you. Good waitress, thank you for this nostalgic field trip to the world of Earth grandmothers! Certainly, many children still have earth grandmothers and thank them. But Estonia is part of the great world. Certainly, the processes that we have here are not unique. What country could set an example for us, or in which country are things in the field of agriculture such as the existence of the great-grandmothers? Which way can we move? What are our examples? How, for example, should we view the agricultural payments granted for the cultivation of legumes? There's beans all over the place. I understand that butterflies improve soil bonite, but how do you feel when a farmer says that 150,000 were missing, all right? How much are these subsidies, and are they still inadequate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U10	Thank you for your question. As far as the other side of the question is concerned, I think that the next rapporteurs will be able to answer it much more effectively, because indeed, I am not an active farmer, I was at the end of the Russian era, but I am not, and I have never written any requests for any euro money. I don't know exactly what those times are. But if it is, like you said, it's just abnormal. That's my idea of this thing. But there is a great deal of abnormal in the European Union, so that does not surprise me. With regard to which country could serve as an example for us, I think that, to some extent, we could look to Poland. Poland has helped its farmers to stay on the Friday; Poland is a very large producer of agricultural products; it exports agricultural products. We also buy a lot of Polish goods in the grocery store, starting with soluble soups and ending with apples. In Poland, however, large-scale farming is not prevalent, as is the case in Estonia. I am not setting up any discussion here that is more cost-effective, which guarantees better quality, etc. I also wanted to say in my speech that the crises in our agriculture, according to my own assessment, would help to avoid diversity and that we currently have too little, and in Polish agriculture, I believe that this diversity exists. But again, maybe one of the best specialists can shed some light on the subject. I would like to stress once again that I made a political introduction rather than an introduction that provides a very thorough and exhaustive light to the field. So if you ask which countries could set an example for us, one of them is definitely Poland. But I've also been to China several times, by the way, and I've seen how effectively Chinese peasants manage their little, little pieces of land there. They not only supply food to China's 1.3 billion population, but they also export food. So obviously there are countries to follow. Those two I just mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U11	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U12	Thank you. Honourable performer! Your approach to agriculture became very broad, still the European Union and internationalism. I want to ask about sanctions. The European Union imposed sanctions on Russia and Russia imposed counter-sanctions. The result is that this year, I don't know if this hall knows this, that Russia was the largest crop of all time, and Russia became the first in the world in grain production, the second was the European Union, and the third was the United States. Russia has put its agriculture on the table, thanks to sanctions. We read in our media how an Estonian farmer suffers from these sanctions. Should we have any influence on the sanctions policy that the European Union has not lost at the moment? Why damage an Estonian farmer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U13	Estonia does not have its policies in general; we all know that. This sanctioning policy that we pursue is not Estonia's policy, it is the vassal's policy. We do not have an independent attitude, we do not pursue our national interests, but we rely on this so-called security interest that we must do as the greats tell us, because 'other than they come to protect us'. When the greats tell us to accept the Cohabitation Act, I take this opportunity to remember, we accept it because 'otherwise they won't come to protect us'. It's so sick thinking that I just can't accept it. As far as sanctions are concerned, I can give, by the way, another historical example. If the United States of America were independent, then the United States was not a superpower, there were only 3.5 million inhabitants, and they depended entirely on Europe's great powers, France, England, but also on the Netherlands, for most groups of goods. The United States introduced very high customs barriers for European goods. With a very simple hindrance: to set up a competitive economy, including industry. They achieved this in a very short period of time, in a few decades, because their goods were competitive in the internal market and businesses were able, perhaps in a sense, to develop production that was able to compete with European countries. This, of course, took place at the end of the 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century. But I also recall the heated debates that were held, among other things, in this Chamber at the beginning of the 1990s on the introduction of protection customs duties for Estonian farmers. They remained unestablished, and the result is, among other things, the final stretch of the land-grandmothers' era. So here's what to argue about. That is precisely what I wanted to emphasise in my presentation: we must think in advance of 20 to 30 years, what the impact of our current decisions will have in 20 to 30 years' time. As far as Russia is concerned, so as not to leave you unanswered, yes, that is well known. After all, Putin declared quite immediately when sanctions were imposed that this would help Russian agriculture to get on its feet. But now, if you look at the sanctions more broadly, they have, on the other hand, been hitting the Russian economy hard, especially finance and industry. So the picture is more ambivalent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U14	Now, one more quick question and an answer. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U15	Thank you. I'm sure I'd like to thank you for this problem. You said there were no policies in Estonia, Mart, but today we are talking about agricultural and rural policy. I will look at one of these aspects in my question and hope for an answer from you. As we know, the European Union's support facility will shrink relatively quickly in the coming years. There are a few sectors where this is not the case, one of them is agriculture and rural. In other words, now is a good time to think about the future, perhaps not so much another 20 to 30 years, but 4 to 5 years forward. What can we do here in the Riigikogu to make these problems smaller or completely disappear?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U16	Trouble never disappears. But thank you for that question. This is actually exactly what we have to do. But as far as politics are concerned, that is why this discussion is being initiated so that we have our own policies. What can we do? It is quite clear that our regional policy is tightening up as a result of the reduction in European Union funding. My personal position has been for years that we can't be a country... What does the state mean? The state, of course, means the government and the Riigikogu. As a country, we can't just stand by and watch some money end and say, "Let's see who's out there in the middle of Valgamaa or at the top of Sõrve's leg, see how they're doing." My view has always been that, in such a situation, the state must become a core investor, a trigger investor, who will later withdraw and sell his participation to co-investors. But I do not see that we have so much free capital that we can only keep things going with the support of private investors. Let us give an example: it is not about agriculture, but it is an example that has been very much yummed. (I am about to finish, so that the Presidency does not get nervous.) This is Patarei Prison. We can't see the investor who would come and take over the whole thing. Here, I think, is a sensible decision to start dealing with it by section. Things need to be viewed in a realistic way and what can be done. In this case, I believe that the state cannot draw itself completely out of regional policy and agriculture, but must be a core investor if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U17	Good waitress, thank you. The President's pulse rate remains low. Next, I would like to ask for a chair of speech by Rando Värnik, Professor of Economics and Social Institute of the Estonian University of Life Sciences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U18	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased to be here before you and to talk about an extremely important subject, agriculture and risk management there. The previous speaker spoke about what this agriculture is and what it contains. We talk a lot about problems in terms of agriculture, but my clear first message is that we should look for more solutions. In fact, in order to reach solutions, we need to understand what we want to solve. I will then introduce some ideas on risk management in agriculture and what risk management as a whole is all about. Let it be said that risk management certainly begins with the fact that the entrepreneur himself must work very hard and take risks literally. In fact, the price of production is influenced by certain activities, demand and supply, and production costs, such an elementary thing a farmer, a farmer should know in order to manage risks on his own holding. Perhaps the first message is that an entrepreneur must also be able to manage these risks himself. There are certainly a number of topics that cannot be personally influenced by an entrepreneur; he cannot so-called give direction or manage these risks. It simply requires these risks to be known and to have a system. As I said at the beginning, it is important that we have solutions. Systematicity is a prerequisite for any solution. I'll show you some pictures. After all, risks can be divided into very different classes. One picture is how risks have been allocated on the basis of impact in the world. We can see that the most important risks of the red circle here are precisely 'financial risks', including any possible risks arising from climate change. They all relate in one way or the other to both financial risks and actually to production risks. So there are a lot of risks that we all perceive and that exist in society. There are economic risks, environmental risks, social risks, geopolitical risks as well as other, technological risks. This means that companies would be obliged to monitor these risks on an ongoing basis. But what is certain is that we cannot predict all the risks, and we cannot look at them in such a way that we can constantly manage them. This means that we must have systems and we must have information. This information must be extremely transparent, comprehensive, so that we can move from information level to risk management. So it is really the responsibility of the owners of the farms to manage the risks. This is the first message. Now, a little risk of typology. It seems very trivial, but we often do not know what risks we face when we talk about agriculture too. This slide shows first the risks of production: droughts, floods, rainfall (these are all the risks from the weather) and the outbreak of pests and diseases (we have heard about the devastating impact that a swine plague has had on the agricultural sector). This includes management risks that depend on how much we know about management as a whole and how we can organise management in order to also hedge risks inside the company. Secondly, there are market risks: price volatility, significant changes in both output prices and input prices, or volatility, currency exchange rate changes, all such changes as result of financial risk through market risk. They all need to be made aware, and the question is how they are managed and whether there are instruments to manage them. The third risk group is literally the risks arising from the business environment: all legislative changes, significant impacts either on the tax system or on other systems, the behaviour of undertakings and the tax burden on businesses, infrastructure risks, such as whether or not there is access to the network, as well as political risks (tax changes, subsidies). What I'm saying is that subsidies are very important and they help to mitigate risks. The grants are still intended to cover the missing part of the income that is missing from the market, but they could also be more involved in risk management than in risk management. Now, a picture that when you talk about weather risks, you would understand what changes have taken place. Here's the 2014-2017. A comparison of the purely monthly rainfall in 2005. We can see that there are very large differences between the same regions in small Estonia in different years. This means that we must have information and comprehensive preparedness to take the lead in managing risks. It's purely linked to the weather. Here's another example. A very long time series, 1960-2017, which shows how input prices have changed significantly in recent years. We can see how prices of other inputs develop through the prices of certain inputs, for example, the impact of oil as a fuel on fertiliser prices is significant. We can see in this figure that in 2008 and 2009 the price of fuel went well high and that prices of all other inputs have come with it. This means that monitoring the prices of inputs and information about them is extremely important and long-term observation of these periods is necessary for businesses, for those who legislate in the country and, in fact, for those parts of the system that are trying to help mitigate risks in the country. Another example is how output prices, or output prices, have changed in different periods. We see how the price of both raw milk and wheat has changed significantly during this period. You can simply look at how many euros this price is per tonne, but if it is converted into a price per litre or per kilogram, you can see that the impact on the company's income is significant. This means, once again, that we must have information about what is happening on the market. We need to know changes in prices, we need to know price trends so that it can manage risks. So both output prices and input prices are important. What, then, are the choices when it comes to risks? One way is simply to talk about reducing risks. These are actions to eliminate the possibility of risk arising. elementary production risk reduction issues have been taken into account here. Firstly, appropriate technologies should be used to mitigate risks within the company. The second strategy is the transfer of risks, i.e. we give the risks to the other parties and they take responsibility for the payment. This is because insurance, as well as other financial hedging tools, could try to mitigate risks and there would be a system (insurance and hedge funds). Coping with risks is the third strategy. These are activities that help to deal with losses from risks. This has certainly meant state aid to farmers, debt restructuring and all the instruments that help the company to cope when risk arises. Now I'm gonna skip a few places and talk about what acceptable strategies are in the business sense if risks are to be mitigated. One research has been carried out at the University of Life Sciences, which identifies specific strategies as well as benefits if risks are to be mitigated. One example of this is the restructuring of production; there are opportunities here. Second, savings for the black days. Similarly, it is again such a simple principle, the question is whether we always use it or not. Thirdly, sufficient reserves, we are trying to predict how much we need and how we can manage our supplies inside our company. Fourthly, the development of management and marketing skills. As I said, management risk is the company's own subject. The more we have wise leaders who can make decisions on the level of information, the better. Fifthly, consultancy services and training, all of which concern the dissemination and availability of information, how we can pass on the information that an entrepreneur needs, modern technology information that helps entrepreneurs cope with risks. This is very important, which means that we must have a good advisory system and a training system that supports it so that we can also educate entrepreneurs. This slide provides an overview of the risk factors in agriculture considered by the subjects. The most important risk that operators themselves have highlighted is the volatility of production and raw material prices. Perhaps the risks arising at the level of fluctuations in the prices of production and raw materials are the most important issues to be addressed by the risk management system. Secondly, adverse weather conditions and natural disasters have been highlighted. Further changes to the system of agricultural payments, i.e. if, in some sense, part of the income is lost, means that if the principles of payment of the aid are changed, this is a risk according to the understanding of the operators. Further, changes in land rent prices and uncertainty caused by political measures, laws and regulations. These are the problems that farmers themselves have highlighted when asked how they perceive these risks. I started by saying that we should look for solutions. I do not mean to say that this is an absolute solution, but there is one document that has been developed by Hungarians. Estonian experts have analysed this and found that it could be a starting point to move forward in order to seek solutions in cooperation with hedge funds and insurance companies, with the help of the state, i.e. the first and second pillar grants, in order to ensure that, once the risk has actually occurred, the damage caused by the risk has already occurred, how to deal with this damage. The Hungarians have proposed a scheme like the one you see on this slide. You would think that this scheme would also fit in Estonian conditions. What does that require? This requires that we have comprehensive information on prices, weather conditions and yields. Here is a very important keyword for cooperation, including joint action. Joint action as a measure also allows for the dissemination of information among producers. All this has to do with how we can jointly develop a solution, or risk management system. Cooperation between the state, companies and insurance companies is important in order for companies to win as a result. Another slide. If we look at the risks that businesses at all should address, for example, the state, then we need to make it clear to ourselves what the foundations are that require state intervention. Let's look at the levels of risk and the financing on this chart. Levels 1 and 2 are considered as normal under this scheme and should be managed by farmers themselves, together with umbrella organisations, producer organisations, also joint organisations, in an effort to jointly manage these production risks. It's all purely private. Levels 3 and 4 present "marketable risks', i.e. those risks are mitigated through a risk system, through insurance companies and through cooperation between undertakings and the State. Of course, it is also very important to have access to information, to the timeliness and relevance of information, which means how this system will operate when, for example, there is a problem of more than 30% loss of harvest, or what is done if the loss is less than 30%. This means that we must have information about harvests and we must have a good and understandable overview of what is happening in different regions. As you have seen, there are differences in Estonia, which in turn means that we must also have information about smaller regions. The system has to work. Or, more specifically, what if there is a reduction of more than 30% in revenue due to the so-called production risk, or weather risk, as well as the price risk? All these issues need to be considered in cooperation at national level, because if the risk is revealed, it is probably too late to look for solutions. The third, the highest level is catastrophic risks, that is level 5. There is an option here to manage the crisis. If all of this has already happened, there has been price risk and there have been problems due to price volatility, the weather has been as it has been, and therefore there have been very large losses, and it can be said that there is a crisis, then the public sector must certainly intervene. This system has been developed by researchers from the European Union. It seems that such a pyramid could also come to a serious discussion in Estonia in order to reflect on these stages of how to achieve it. We are talking about different solutions and what we have to do. I've just brought in some of those briefings here. First of all, yes, risk management in the Estonian agricultural sector needs to be made aware. What do I mean? Agriculture is an area where it is likely to depend very much on the weather and on the prices. We cannot always sell production at the moment we want, and the funds are covered, so we will not always be able to meet our obligations to pay off our debts and invest in time. As a result, there could be a disaster. In that case, we need to have a risk management system in place to prevent this situation. So we need to be aware of it, everyone should be aware of it. Farmers must take into account the risks. Long-term trends in production and its transformation, for example in making choices about which cultures to grow, are important. I will give the same example that we had a loss of 60-70% this year's pea and bean harvest. The question arises as to whether this could be avoided. This is likely to be possible by means of some kind of choice. Awareness of how to deal with the crisis should increase, as I said. The risk management system in the agricultural sector needs to be developed. The instruments of the second pillar of the CAP, the common agricultural policy, could also be used as a tool to shape the risk management tool. The development of a risk management system should be mandatory in agriculture, it cannot be considered freedom, it must be made a commitment, because it saves resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U19	Good waitress, your time is up. Would you like a few more minutes? One minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U20	One important part of the risk management system is information and its comprehensive visibility, as I have already said. Once again, impartiality is very important. Whoever does it or how it is done must be transparent and impartial. Joint action is an important tool in risk management. It can teach people and show them choices. In fact, all investments made jointly should be made to better manage risks. The easiest thing to start with is that we would have agreed to calculate the cost of production at all levels so that everyone could understand it and know it in the same way. Then we can show the country what production costs per unit are, and also apply certain risk mechanisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U21	Thank you for this presentation. The round of questions will be opened by Andres Herkel. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, thank you for this review. You once mentioned grants as a risk management tool. I also think that it is a risk when subsidies go to the same companies and somehow concentrate. There's one of those corruption-scented stories in the Postman today. European Union regulations, I understand, are trying to prevent multiple subsidies and also to avoid circumvention of limits. Please explain to us how it seems to you what this arrangement is like in Estonia to ensure fair competition in this area and to mitigate this so-called risk of corruption, which is not always malicious, but it just goes so badly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U23	Thank you for your question. I think it is necessary that the share of subsidies in the risk management system becomes transparent and some of the subsidies should be modulated into a hedge fund so that, according to the right principles, either insurance compensation or income deficit compensation can be obtained. That's a good thing to do. Does support always go to the right place? I guess that was a question. Yes, the story is that, unfortunately, the production structure in agriculture is such that we have few companies that are large and have a relatively large number of land. This cannot really be said to be bad; it is the competitiveness of production that is behind it. Perhaps if we still want to compete at world level, we should have larger scales so that we can reduce the unit price on a scale. This leads to a higher investment need and, overall, to higher subsidies. Once these systems are clear and clear, there is no problem. Unfortunately, I can't comment on corruption. I just came from Ukraine. There we saw how these things really work when we talk about corruption. But I want to say that it is certainly not the case that there are only small and large companies. We also have average companies. I think that, under Estonian conditions, they are all necessary for rural areas. That's what it means. Measures have also been sought to ensure that producers still benefit from different measures. But, yes, I am not commenting on the subject of corruption, unfortunately I do not know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U24	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, One of the most important key resources for the functioning of agriculture is land and its ownership or rental, the possibility of having physical land at all. In your previous reply, you mentioned some of the land ownership issue. I ask this question: what is the risk associated with land in Estonia and its availability to agriculture, knowing that the world has 144th place in terms of agricultural land? This means that it is still relatively few. Is there a risk or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U26	Thank you for your question. I follow this principle that the land is still important for the state, it must be, and the farmland is a great resource for the Estonian state. In fact, we have much more farmland per capita in European terms than in other countries, a value that we should keep. The question is, what are we gonna do with this country? The answer is that there should be food production. This raises the question of how we can earn all the food we produce in order to pay the rent price of the land and increase the productivity of the land in order to obtain more real value from one hectare and not so much use these subsidies. In principle, reducing dependence on subsidies is an important issue. This is possible if we have more joint action and cooperation and if we are able to take control of the value chain, i.e. we are starting to deserve our own raw stuff in order to get more money. This is what I see as important here, so-called "value chain management" is the key word.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable Professor! You spoke about a number of risks and showed the slides about how entrepreneurs themselves had set their priorities. If we are in a situation of limited resources, what would be the first and most serious risk that we should jointly insure ourselves against if we are also talking here about the possible inclusion of the second pillar in the creation of funds or cooperation with the private sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U29	Thank you. The first such thing that the producer can certainly do is to think about the price risks for itself. It is likely that the impact of price risk will be significantly higher. All these knowledge related to futures and financial transactions, how and at what time to lock prices, how to work together in the sense of collective action, this is certainly a very big issue, which in turn consists of sub-actions. Another issue is production risk and weather conditions. How to put cultures into conveyors or how to think through action if you can't do all things on time, just as the weather-related sowing times were late last year, and therefore the catch was later caught So the existence and awareness of knowledge is also a matter of risk management when we are talking about managing production risk in the so-called weather context. But it is clear that this "large shareholder" is still the weather itself, and there is no way we can buy him.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U30	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Professor. I ask you as a well-known and beloved lecturer at the University of Earth. The assessment of risks, and in particular the management of risks, requires a very good knowledge of modern agriculture, to the extent that there are opportunities in today's agriculture. How do you, as experienced lecturers, assess our current level of agricultural training?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U32	Thank you. That was a really good question. Actually, I appreciate it so it's not very good. It is also part of the system and this system must be created in such a way that we must systematically take these issues up for training, teaching and curricula and move forward from there. On the business side, practitioners who operate in financial markets could also be involved in teaching students and perhaps other entrepreneurs. Such knowledge is certainly needed more, it is not well. I think this is our mission, too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U33	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Professor Rando, for this interesting presentation. My question concerns the European Union's common agricultural policy. We know that it has been working for just three years, but it is already being reviewed and proposals are expected. One message is really risk management. How have you, your team and the producer organisations been able to explain this need to our authorities, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and perhaps other ministries, and how can Estonia protect the need for agricultural risk management in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U35	Thank you. Again, a very relevant question. My team of the Institute, together with its cooperation partners, has been involved in the debate on the future of the common European agricultural policy and risk management has also been an issue. The same pyramid I showed here is from this report. I think that from all countries that have created a system, it is always reasonable to take an example. But I think it is necessary to create a system for the Estonian state. If we are also thinking about subsidies, we can see that it needs an agreement with farmers. We need to put some kind of money into risk management tools to seriously manage risks when they occur. This is the answer to the European Union's agricultural policy and risk management. After all, today we are talking about a new financial period that is approaching. When we are talking about equality on certain principles, we must take into account that we will probably soon be in a situation where we will still receive fewer amounts of subsidies. So we need to think about how this system can be built in such a way that the funds we create, including the so-called hedge funds, would help to survive these periods if the amount of subsidies is reduced by the sum of the amounts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U36	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U37	Good manager, Good waitress! How meaningful is the re-evaluation of the land, should it be done and how would it affect the Estonian farmer? I stress, above all, the Estonian farmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U38	Thank you. I'm going to ask you what this land re-evaluation means. Does this mean giving new assessments in terms of value and reviewing this side? My answer is that if we have an agricultural land purchase price of EUR 3000 to EUR 3200 per hectare, the result is that every operator using the land must take into account the productivity of the land. It would probably not be very sensible if we were to keep a very large amount of land under conditions, even if the conditions of the European Union are simply in good agricultural order, but it would be reasonable to see how we can use it to produce food. Another issue is how to increase the productivity of the land by exporting the product we produce there to other countries. If we don't consume everything ourselves, then the result is that we have to move out too. Now for land valuation. The question is who owns the land. Perhaps we should review who owns the agricultural land of Estonia. There are different ways. It's kind of a serious thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U39	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U40	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Good waitress, thank you for a very detailed and thorough presentation. I have two questions about this report concerning risks. In the table 'Risk mitigation measures on Estonian farms', entrepreneurs themselves place diversification in the most recent place. I have spoken to entrepreneurs who, in the light of recent crises, have said that dealing with multiple areas at once increases the chance that something will go wrong, and then the whole event will go wrong. This is exactly the opposite of what your recommendation or opinion is. The second issue is that the table, which contains estimates of the importance of risk factors, is quite at the end of the labour shortage. I think it is striking, because there is a lot of talk about labour shortages in agriculture, but when we talk about risks, the workforce itself is one of the most stable factors in all of this business. Could you comment a little bit on these two issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U41	Thank you. The first short answer is this: this master's thesis, to which I refer, has been done in 2015, but the data is slightly from an earlier period. Now there is certainly a need for a new study, because the environment has changed. At the moment, this problem is serious because we do not have enough labour, businesses are looking for solutions with technology and they are also looking for ways to bring workers from abroad to solve the labour problem. This means that the conditions have definitely changed. On diversity, I say that diversification is reasonable if we know enough about what is happening within this diversification, i.e. what are prices, production risks and opportunities for sales and how to mitigate these risks. Reasonable peasant wisdom is the key word.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U42	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, first of all, thank you very much for your presentation. Of course, we have little land in Estonia and it must be used as wisely and sensibly as possible so that every hectare can be exploited. The next option is whether, through grants and systems, support large-scale entrepreneurship or move more towards small businesses or small-scale farming, which may provide better diversity. It also depends on how we can mitigate these risks. My question is about hedge funds or also insurance systems. We've been talking about them, I think, since the 1990s, but we haven't had them for any reason. Well, there may be a number of reasons. My question concerns what these reasons are, why we have not created these funds. Is it because farmers want to get the money straight and rather not ready to bet on it? Do we need any major insurance companies across Europe? What's behind it that we still don't have it all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U44	I think the small size of Estonia is a bit of a problem here. Insurance companies that deliver on the private market are not too interested to deal with smaller cases because they do not generate profitability. The solution is certainly to cooperate with pan-European insurance companies at international level. How it all works out is a matter of its own, but we need to develop international cooperation. In fact, the other half is that when you start running risks, the risk insurance companies want to have a system before they start dealing with it. We have a system of yields and trends, we can look at them and compare them, and that is why we can say that, for example, loss of harvest or loss of revenue is 30%, and then we can intervene. Similarly, the State should also know at what point it should intervene with the insurance company in order to mitigate the risks. So smallness is definitely a problem, but I think there's some way to get over it, because I don't think we're gonna make it without the help of the insurance companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U45	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U46	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, thank you for your good presentation. Does the University of Life Sciences handle the deep processing of grain, the enhancement of the protein contained there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U47	Thank you. I know we've just opened a food lab, and we're starting to deal more and more with the subject of food enhancement. But the specific question I'm going to answer is that I should look into it exactly. That is a very specific question. I can find out and let you know.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U48	Krista Aru, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! My previous question concerned agricultural education and teaching. But now I'm asking about the agricultural sciences. I still remember the evaluation reports from my previous job, which were quite critical in the evaluation of agricultural sciences and brought out a lot of problems. What is the state of our agricultural sciences today, and has the country been able to provide sufficient support for agricultural sciences through the central government, as well as through education and research policies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U50	Thank you. That's a very good question again. What can I say? I say that the great problem of all Estonian science is project-based. The basic funding is also project-based. We need such a system that, for example, if there is a responsibility, we need to give concrete money and define responsibility. Responsibility can be taken when there are people and there is money. It's as simple as that. If we make a system that is today and is not tomorrow, it will not be viable. We need a sustainable system, or we need to think through what the areas we need are and strengthen them. I can say that we have the Scientific and Development Council, we have measures through the Ministry of Rural Affairs, there are other measures in the rural development plan for so-called training and cooperation with entrepreneurs. I run a programme myself, it's a knowledge transfer programme for joint action. This, in my opinion, is very important; it helps to move the common sense of thinking forward. But these programmes could be interlinked, less overlapping and should also consider what happens after these programmes and all these activities, how to create viability when these programmes are completed. I'm sure it's not okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U51	Now a very quick question from Arto Asa and a quick answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U52	Thank you. I express my concern that when most Estonian politicians talk about agriculture, they still talk about subsidies and subsidies, all of what the state has to do with taxpayers' money. Competition, development and new markets are falling into the background. Our dependence on euro support has become very massive. As a scientist, how do you see this, is the contribution of subsidies and subsidies to Estonian agriculture so important, even though we were convinced at least ten years ago that the Estonian farmer was so competitive and strong that he could actually do without it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U53	Thank you. The quick answer is that I teach students in the spirit that we must not depend on subsidies. Competitiveness must emerge on the market itself and we must take into account that subsidies can be temporary. But as long as subsidies are paid in other countries and we are in the same competitive environment, we have to pay them. That's it. These benefits must be taken as part of the income, because it is a'revenue deficit' that is missing from the market, otherwise the food would simply be more expensive. It's a complex subject. I think that a number of companies in many areas are already competitive, but support is still needed to maintain competitiveness in terms of investment in order to gain new technology and also to be sustainable in terms of international competition.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U54	Dear Professor, thank you. I'm sorry, I can't ask you any more questions. Let's move on to the third report. Head of the Valgamaa Farmers' Association and member of the cereal panel of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce Kalle Kits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U55	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! Honourable guests! So let's talk about the lessons of plant breeding in risk management. I'm talking a little bit about myself, about the fact that in the 21st century, the crop sector has learned some pretty interesting lessons, and then let's see what we have in the future. First of all, me. I'm Kalle Kits, fifth-generation peasant from Tagula near Sangaste. Reforms have broken the heart of Sangaste's manor and its neighborhood, there are different municipalities. But on a cellular level, I am probably connected to one of the most innovative farmers in Estonia, Friedrich Georg Magnus von Berg. In 1993, I graduated from the Estonian University of Agriculture from the field of mechanization of agriculture, and from the same year I am active at Mudasilla farm. Today, 25 harvests have been harvested from the field. For the first ten years, I dealt with dairy cattle, in the meantime I was a Eurofarmer, and for the last ten years I have worked on crop cultivation on 500 hectares of circa. In March 2016, I am the chairman of the board of the Valgamaa Farmers' Association and a member of the cereal panel of the Chamber of Commerce from the autumn of the same year. The lessons are as follows: For the last ten years, the Estonian crop sector has undergone a pretty impressive development thanks to European Union subsidies. New techniques and new technologies have been acquired, new cultivation systems have been established. By investing in technology and in arable land, producers have mostly suffered quite high loan liabilities, as well as quite a lot of revolving credit. In such a short period of time, you simply cannot, as you can see, be relieved of your debt, compared with your European colleagues. In the cereals sector, we are currently producing half as much as we consume ourselves, and quite a lot of catches are going to be exported. Here's a little scheme of how the market works. [[Display the slide.]] For us, the most important thing is the market, the stock exchange, where prices are made. But I would point out that this slide has a farmer underneath it all. That is for good reason, for it is the farmer who takes all the risks. The farmer has partners for inputs and outputs, and they are mostly cooperatives in other European countries. We're like squirrels on a bike. But this slide also has these light blue bubbles, which I'll talk about a little bit later. The years 2016 and 2017 have been quite interesting for the crop sector. In 2016, there were 40 days of post-sowing drought, resulting in 5 tonnes being wanted, but two and a half tonnes were received, and outstanding invoices accumulated. In 2017, there was a late spring, therefore a late harvest and a wet harvesting period and high drying costs. They say 15% uncleaned, I've got 20% uncleaned. Let's compare these two years' uncleaned space. If in 2016 the circa was not harvested by 50%, we are reducing here that the harvest was half as much as half as it was, then there is even progress. But if you don't clean up 20% or 15%, you don't pay back your debts so fast. Now let me give you an example. 70 days was the cleaning period. The combine went into my field on August 17th, and the harvest ended on October 29th. The harvester was in the field for 31 days. Yes, there was a lot of time to deal with other things at the time, such as playing, reading, meditating. I read exactly what has been said about risk management in Europe within the framework of the new CAP. But my favorite game was a game like Circus. Playing it helped to get away from the reality of the harvest, enabled creativity and playfulness to fly. When several days had been played, this game began to remind me of the full reality of what was happening in our lives. The year 2016 was also beginning to come to mind. This game is reminiscent of the crop season, any setback in the game is like a failure in the growing season of plants, such as drought, hail, too much precipitation. But cropping is a special industry where mistakes can only be corrected next season, but the game can be stopped and started again. It's a game with no risk management. Then I also remembered that we are holding the Presidency of Europe and that risk management has become a subject very close to our heart. I remembered the word "culture," and then I started bringing these things together. We're missing something, we're missing risk management. Now, speaking of games like poker, it's not a game of chance, it's a game of skill, where there are three very important factors that a gambler has to consider: self-management, strategy and money management. Now we've come to the risk. Joseph Stiglitz has said very nicely that the risk is like love: we all know what it is, but we don't know how to define it. Now we're getting to risk management. The cereals market is global, there are certain rules and it requires certain skills. But personally, I feel like I'm playing and I'm kind of a gambler. If we add risk management skills here, this is already a more serious approach to global market operations. Do we operate in a market economy or in a planned economy? The previous performer showed a risk pyramid here. I'm not going to do it again, but I'm going to be based on the fact that the two lowest levels, the private sector, can change quite a bit. We can take action now, even now. The crop sector has quite interesting opportunities, we have a daily SMS offer and you take it or leave it. In essence, today we can sell a new harvest in advance. That is how we will achieve price stability. There are three important components here that need to be known. A little help is needed in order to start, proper market information is needed, and then there is a need for hedge funds, with purchasers quite successfully solving this problem. I can't tell you how many farmers use it, but it's quite popular. If you're going to go through the stock market, you're going to have to use the word "future." We can solve this issue in the same way in three steps. Broker services are entirely available in Estonia, but we do not have a full training package and education. Here is an example of how the price of the wheat has moved on the stock market this year. Those who fixed the price in winter or summer have gotten a pretty good price, but I don't know how much fun the ones who left this harvest period. Now some conclusions too. This issue of risk management is ours, yes, as the title has been very much reflected. We had a meeting here between European agriculture ministers and fisheries ministers, and I read the background information that is not in Estonian. It pointed out that the use of the agricultural sector in creating cooperation has not been satisfactory and should be made more attractive. I have a good example of that. For a year and a half, I have been the leader of the Valgamaa Farmers' Association. We've had a rejuvenation, but we're unknown, nobody really wants to talk to us. Secondly, there is a need for a broad implementation of public-private partnerships. Thirdly, we need risk management instruments that provide comprehensive solutions for managing risks, including prevention, response and planning. Fourthly, risk management needs the current advisory system (?) development to help farmers analyse constantly growing information and make informed choices. That question mark isn't in vain. But we don't have time to discuss this today. What do I want to say in conclusion? The crop sector has been very hopeful of the future, we have a high threshold of pain, but I can't tell you how long we can endure. Two years of financial fasting has been psychologically very difficult to survive. Only by listening to each other and working together will we create new values. At the end of here, I have the references to the sources I've used. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U56	Good waitress, you have questions for members of the Riigikogu. Urmas Kruus opens the round of questions. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! In general, there is a widespread perception among farmers that cereal growers have been quite innovative in their activities, including in collective action and risk management. There has been hope that perhaps they will be the first to be able, on a national scale, to implement the principle of a hedge fund in order to better cope with price volatility. Is that the case, or is it just another discussion that's going down?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U58	No, it is true that the cereals sector is most closely linked to the stock market. Although Europe is on its way to the stock market, unfortunately, there are currently no attractive instruments available in the dairy industry or the meat sector. But I would stress that farmers are highly innovative in investing in technology, but they are relatively modest in risk management. They should definitely take it more seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U59	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U60	Thank you, Mr President. I can tell you, Kalle, thank you! We live in neighboring villages, and I always care about what you do. But my question concerns genetically modified organisms. We know that in the European Union, this issue is regulated by directives and regulations; in Estonia, three ministries deal with it. After all, the aim is to fight against pests, and perhaps it is possible to achieve a different level of product prices. How do you and your related producer organisations respond to this issue - Estonia and GMO?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U61	Thank you very much for a good and topical question. I don't know, I think there was a debate in the Committee on Rural Affairs on Tuesday. I don't know what they were talking about. But farmers want this GMO issue to continue, not ban it. This is where the negotiations are now. That's all I can talk about.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U62	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Since you are a relatively young man, but you are very well aware of this area, I will ask you this question. If you had the power and the power to change something alone, what would you change in this important part of the agricultural economy? You have mentioned here that there is a need for risk management instruments and so on, but consider it a little more personal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U64	Thank you for a very good question. I'm gonna start by changing this very mental world. The farmer has to realize that he's down there, he's the one taking all these risks, he's got to understand them, he's got to know how to run them. Although there are a lot of these risks, the same price volatility is an important component and it is very easy to manage. The Swedes have conducted a survey. It turned out that the price volatility was 74% and 26% were the yield volatility or the harvest difference from year to year. You can see which way the farmer has to go. You can't always expect to come back for grants.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U65	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U66	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You also mentioned a joint action in your presentation. What state do you think, according to your personal assessment, is the joint activity of farmers in Estonia today, especially in the cereals sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U67	Thank you for your question. I didn't really touch on joint action, but there are quite a few sectors in agriculture. In some sectors, these joint actions, I think, remain behind personalities. The cereals sector is slightly more advanced in this respect, but it can always be done better. The direction is that we must have strong central cooperatives, where small cooperatives will be concentrated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U68	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. Have you thought about how cereal producers can cope without PRIA?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U70	Thank you for your question. They'll be fine. Today, too, I am relying on the fact that profits must be obtained from the field, not from subsidies. Grants are now just a means of moving forward when you have big liabilities, loans and leases.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U71	Rein Randver, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U72	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I will specify my first question. Do you and cereal producers support GMO-free Estonia in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U73	Thank you for your question. Probably don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U74	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U75	Good manager! Good waitress! I would like to ask Mr Randver to continue on the subject he initiated. I was at that Tuesday joint session. The farmers were quiet there, no one said anything straight out like you're here right now. But my question is, why are you in favour of GMOs, for what reason? Second of all, what kind of varieties are we talking about? Are you dreaming about the corn variety or maybe the potato that was in our fields for a few years or the rape, or do you have any other preferences?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U76	Thank you for your question. In this area, I'm kind of a layman. But do you want to move the debate forward or support it now? Yes, it was demanded that we make Estonia GMO-free. Personally, I do not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U77	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good waitress, the days of the week ago, found that the average wage in Estonia has risen and the only sector where it has fallen is agriculture. The question about the labour force: do you think that the situation really is that farmers do not have enough labour and that it needs to be imported from outside? Maybe you'll think a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U79	Thank you for your question. Rather, there will be a problem in the coming years when older workers start to retire because young people do not particularly want to work in this sector. And if the local people don't want us to work, then we're gonna have to bring this workforce in from somewhere else. Although the crop sector is relatively labour-intensive, it concerns livestock farming. The livestock farms go to milking robots, and they try to do as much as possible with the machines.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U80	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U81	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned that psychologically, it's been very difficult in the last two years. Has it been easy financially?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U82	Thank you for a good question. This year is psychologically much easier, last year was very difficult. If last year was also very difficult financially, this year is already better financially. Last year, if other resources had to find help to get bread on the table, this year it has come from the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U83	Good waitress! The members of the Riigikogu have no further questions for you. Thank you! The last presentation is made by the Head of Kõljala Agricultural OÜ, the Head of the Saaremaa Association of Producers and the Chairman of the Rural Group of the Estonian Chamber of Agricultural and Trade Tõnu Post. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U84	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was asked to come here today to introduce the situation of Estonian milk production. As the honourable previous speaker said, in my opinion, this is true, agriculture is the backbone of rural life. There is nothing to do, if there is no agriculture, then rural areas are actually relatively inanimate, but if there is agriculture, there may be something else to do with it. I'll say a few words about myself. I have graduated from the veterinary faculty of the Estonian Agricultural Academy. I do my day-to-day work, as mentioned in Saaremaa, in command of Kõljala Agricultural OÜ. I say, for geographical information, that my working and living area is the vicinity of Kaali's meteor craters. If you've been there, you've been to my lands. I have been active in milk production for over 25 years. Today, we have 850 dairy cows and 2,500 hectares of land. I want to talk about why milk production is good for us, why it is necessary and what it could give us. The average milk production per cow this year, or at the end of the year, is over 12,000 kilograms. By way of comparison, last year Estonia had an average of 8833 kilograms, which was the second result among the countries of the European Union; only Denmark was ahead of us. However, if you look back in time for 25 to 30 years, then the average was still 3,500 kilograms. In my work, I have been confronted several times with the question of why it makes sense in Estonia to engage in agriculture, including dairy farming. Perhaps it is good for me to tell you what I see in it and what I consider to be very important here, honourable ambassadors. First of all, there is a very favourable climate and favourable conditions for livestock farming in Estonia. In recent times, the idea that there is a growing decline in the land to produce food has often come to the fore. The real situation is that Estonia has about half a hectare of agricultural land per capita, while the world average is 0.2 hectares. Climatic conditions are extremely favourable to livestock farming. To clarify, the most suitable temperature for a top producing cow is 5 to 8 degrees, which is exactly what we usually have here. The cow is, I still love to say it, the big biochemistry combinate, it's more like it's having trouble giving away heat. What a person feels cold or cool sometimes is a very favourable and pleasant environment for an animal. The main mineral resource in Estonia is soil; we do not really have anything else, as is the case in countries farther away from us. Our soil is most suitable for the cultivation of various herbaceous plants, which the animal can serve as nutrients for human needs. This is how nature has arranged that a person with these herbaceous plants can't do anything directly, but with the help of an animal, it's a very nice thing. In fact, we are at the top of the world in terms of our milk production potential and also in terms of results. Throughout the ages, livestock farming in rural areas has played an important role. Perhaps, for information, the fact that cattle were reared on Estonian soil for 1800 B.C.E. The largest number of cows was before the war, then it reached 480,000 animals, the horses were counted 219000 at the time, the sheep over 600,000. All of this shows that we have the potential to grow a much larger flock. During the collapses, there were 320,000 cows at the peak, and after the reforms, the number of animals began to shrink sharply, especially with each crisis. There have been three crises in my period of work. So the last crisis, which lasted for two years, led to a large part of the valuable herd, 12%, which is one of the biggest losses in the European Union. Now we have 86000 dairy cows. Along with this 12% disappearance, many jobs were lost. Livestock farming is a very important employer in agriculture. The rule of thumb says that if grain is grown on about a thousand hectares, in the current circumstances it is possible to do so with three or four full-time jobs, no more jobs are needed. However, if there is a thousand - head dairy herd, which can be held on a thousand acres of circa, it will employ about 50 people in modern farms. Perhaps in Estonia this average is not yet 50 people. Since we have a lot of small farms, where maybe even the renewal course hasn't been done, it's probably a lot more people. But the current dairy pack, I estimate, employs about 5,500 people. Raw milk accounts for 50% of total livestock value. According to the latest data, the dairy processing industry employs 2,100 people as averages in recent years. As an average for the last five years, a total of EUR 166 million has been received each year from exports of dairy products. To this must be added the export of raw milk, which has received an average of 45 million each year for these five years. The total annual export revenue from milking is EUR 210 million. Now, if you think about these figures a little bit, it is clear that dairy farming is a profitable business for the future in Estonia, all the more so as we can read every day that there is a need to increase food production in the future. According to current FAO data, world milk production is growing by around 1.7% per year, while consumption is increasing by 2% per year and stocks are not enough to meet demand in the future, which again gives Estonia very good opportunities to reap the benefits of dairying. The Riigikogu is also able to contribute to the preservation and progress of rural life and production in the country. Growing dairy cattle is a very long process. Within two years, 12,000 cows were lost and can only be restored in four to five years. It takes three years to think about a cow, a born calf becomes a cow in two years. The rural economy needs stability and equal market conditions. One of which has been said many times today is the weather that always controls us. I have thought about this, and I do not think there is any other industry that is as weather-dependent as agriculture. We love to say that the upper shareholder sometimes takes his part and there is nothing to do about it, so we have to accept the situation. This sometimes causes very serious problems. The subsidies that have been mentioned here many times today are not an end in itself, but, if the European Union has determined that subsidies are an essential part of production, we will not be able to compete in the same market without similar subsidies. Support is for the consumer through the farmer, so that the price of food is affordable for everyone. Thank you! Questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U85	Good waitress! Indeed, you have quite a few questions. The round of questions will be opened by the March Sults. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U86	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress, thank you for your excellent presentation. There was such a contradiction here that when, during the crisis, a very large number of dairy cows went their way, you claim that the future Nokia is a dairy herd. Last year, the average field milk was 8,000 litres, now it has grown to 12,000 litres. What measure is the effectiveness of a cow, whether in litres or by fat content, or are there any correlations between them? Are they somehow measured or simply pumped out of the animal?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U87	In Estonia, yes, there was a loss of about 12,000 animals. To be clear, not all of them went to the tentacle; Polish farmers bought a lot of animals from Estonia because the Polish state had given their farmers help earlier so that they could buy our animals. The Estonian average was 8833 kg per animal and 12,000 kg is the average of our cattle. It was a complement. In the current system, we will definitely get money, yes, for a kilo of milk, but there will be more of both protein and fat content. The percentage of protein and fat may give rise to a mark-up or a discount. It's kind of a system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U88	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U89	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned that milk production in the world is growing by 1.2% per year, but demand is like 2% per year and demand is starting to exceed or already exceeds consumption at some point. How could this affect Estonian dairy producers? How much can the size of a herd of cows grow in the near future? Is there any way you can predict this? The second is the simple question: do you have any explanation for this bizarre or bizarre crisis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U90	The increase in milk consumption is yes 2%. According to FAO, these scissors are likely to intersect in 2025 when production is no longer in line with demand. Estonia certainly has a good opportunity here. I brought these figures precisely because, if there are about 480000 cows in Estonia, but there are currently 86000 cows, it shows that our country can grow a much larger number of animals and that it would benefit both the producer and the state. So it's possible to raise the herd, but it's going to be very slow because, yes, in two years, the calf becomes a cow and half of the calves are bulls, right, but it's a natural herd turnover. So this recovery, or the growing of the herd, is very difficult; unfortunately, in other animal species, it goes faster than in cattle. So that's the problem. Now it's a butter crisis. There were certainly market speculations here and, if there was demand, then the price increased.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U91	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U92	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You just said that a very large part of the dairy herd was sold to Poland. In 2017, there were opportunities to pay agricultural payments and this will continue in the coming years. How do you think those who sold their dairy herd will be ready to start again, or will the burden increase for those who have continued to deal with it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U93	Twenty-five years ago, a lot of dairy herds were lost or agricultural activities were stopped at all and maybe moved away from their previous place of residence. Practice shows that there have been no new starters among those who have stopped keeping dairy cattle, at least I do not know. Everything, however, is likely to set a price. If production becomes profitable in the long run, I will not rule out anyone starting again. If you have the skills, why not? But right now, I rather believe that today's producers are capable of significantly increasing production. That's the fastest solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U94	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U95	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, dear waitress. You already mentioned that there were 480000 animals in pre-war Estonia, and some data show that there were even more. But then, very seriously, breeding development was also brought to the agenda. Estonian breed development was very appreciated, at least in other countries. How are we doing on this day with this breeding development?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U96	The breeding situation, I think, is worthy of the present. Before the war, Estonia's average milk production was about 3,000 kilos. If the average is now at 9000 and it is not impossible that this year the Estonian average will exceed 9,000 kilograms, then actually there is a large proportion of breeding here. Although breeding is a very long-term process and results come in a very long time, I still think that breeding continues to be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U97	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U98	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, If you look back at this sale of cows south of us, would you really have been able to leave good cows in Estonia, save them for Estonia and keep them here for our production, by looking at these good productions and breeding? Maybe you'll think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U99	In some respects, although everyone who stopped production had a personal situation that forced it to do so. Maybe some people found themselves a good reason to stop manufacturing. But I think that earlier State aid would certainly have helped a little. As Professor Rando Värnik said, we do not actually have a risk management or risk management system. In order to avoid such bad situations in the future, it would be good if we could have a risk management system, because there will be more of these crises. I have seen three crises, and I believe I will see a few more. If we could agree on how to prepare for these crises and come through them better, then perhaps at least this situation would not happen again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U100	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good waitress! You're also good as a dairy producer. For what you mentioned, on average 12,000 tonnes of milk per cow, you are also marked in Estonia as a farmer of the year. But if I'm not mistaken, now we're producing 2,000 tons of milk a day, and the dairy industries we have will process it too. Do you think you need a dairy industry built in Paide?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U102	Yes, it is true that the amount of milk produced per day is about 2,000 tonnes. In fact, the existing Estonian dairy industry is unable to process this 2 000 tonnes. We have a lot of relatively old buildings. In my view, it would indeed be welcome if there were one cooperative, large and influential dairy industry in Estonia. That would be a very positive solution for manufacturers, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U103	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U104	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! You indicated that within two years, 12,000 cows disappeared from the herd. This period was a little longer, because the decrease started even before the crisis when we look at statistics purely. Also, given that milk production has an intense impact on the natural environment, it is not a very soft production option, and if we look at the purely environmental principle, how many dairy cows do you think there could be in Estonia to maximise profits?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U105	Thank you for your question. Once again, if we've had a number of times the number of animals that it is today, then I think that three times the number of animals wouldn't be a problem at first sight. This is not so much a burden on the environment, in fact, because we can also make very good use of the resulting slurry as an agricultural fertiliser. Well, that's been an exorcism ever since. All the more so because bioenergy issues are growing. In time, the cow may not be as much a dairy producer as an energy producer. So I think that the number of animals in Estonia would be considerably higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U106	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U107	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The title of the farmer of the year has already been remembered here, but I would like to stress that you are also the head of agriculture in 2017. I read in the article on this subject that your colleagues highlighted your actions in developing cooperation and joint action between farmers. Other rapporteurs today also addressed this issue and were asked about it. I am taking this opportunity to ask you for an assessment of the collective action of farmers. What other options do you see? You already mentioned the need for a large cooperative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U108	Yeah, our farmers are really cooperative, I guess. One very good example is our breeding cooperative, which has worked for a very long time. I also recall the grain cooperative KEVILI, a cooperative that works very well for farmers and farmers. We have, I would say, enough dairy cooperatives for Estonia, but they are small. I believe and hope that, in time, they will consolidate and develop a proper dairy cooperative. Who has said that this cooperative should operate in one economic area? There are quite a number of countries in the world where the cooperative also operates in several directions, such as dairying, cereal and meat farming, all of which take place in one cooperative. Such a cooperative concentration in agriculture is, in my opinion, very perspective and important. It combines these small entities into a force that can also negotiate better terms on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U109	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Many dairy farmers switched to beef farming due to this previous crisis. How do you think farmers would be more profitable now? Perhaps, under Estonian conditions, it would really be more appropriate to further develop meat cattle farming? Or is it more reasonable to think that they will return to milk production in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U111	Thank you! Of course, if there is a transition to meat farming, this decision will probably not be lightly changed. But since experience exists, you should know that some may find a point in it, because milk still gives a daily turnover, but beef cattle production gives a turnover once a year. So there's a point. In order to live out of beef cattle alone, your main herd must be large enough. Other European practices also show that meat cattle are often kept as a'main job'. However, I think it is possible to switch from beef to dairy if the market is so favourable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U112	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U113	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You mentioned the need for a new milk preparation or what we call it. Do we have an export or, let's say, a marketing problem at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U114	Well, marketing is always a problem. At the same time, I believe one of our problems is that we have many small dairy industries, all of them trying to sell the bulk of their production to the internal market and what remains is trying to sell to the foreign market, which is to find a place on the external market. A larger and more powerful dairy industry could produce a decent product in proper quantities, which would certainly be easier to go to the foreign market. In view of this crisis, at that time most Estonian dairy industries were oriented towards the eastern market. When this market disappeared, we had two or three months of confusion and head-on, but we managed to re-orient ourselves very well and found the market in other countries. So I think that our dairy industries will not stand behind the market, but one decent dairy industry, which produces decent quantities, would provide better opportunities for going to the foreign market, even beyond Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U115	Thomas Paur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U116	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! You are the leader of the Saaremaa Association of Producers and also a member of the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Commerce. Tell me how things have progressed with the movement of the common agricultural organisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U117	Thank you. Pretty well developed. Another six months ago, we were represented by three agricultural organisations: the Estonian Farmers' Confederation, the Estonian Agricultural Chamber and the Estonian Farmers' Confederation. Today, the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Agricultural Chamber have merged and formed a common umbrella organisation, including a representative of the forestry and processing industry. So we sit at a table, discuss common problems and try to find solutions to them. I think that the first stage has been very successful.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U118	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U119	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Today, in this Parliament, we are listening to reports that have all been very interesting and, in my opinion, very informative. But to you, I have this question: do you have any wish to tell the legislator or to give advice?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U120	Thank you. That's a good question. I'm sure there's no magic wand. I can ask or say that agriculture does not want sudden decisions, but a stable development. The most important thing is that this whole thing can go peacefully. Because, yes, in agriculture, as Kalle said before, it is unfortunate that if we make a mistake in spring, we can only correct this next spring. In the meantime, there is simply no way. That's all management is. So stability is very important to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U121	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U122	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! The Farmers' Confederation has been complaining for years that large-scale producers are preferred to small-scale producers for the payment of subsidies. What's your angle here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U123	Thank you! I certainly don't agree with that. Small producers have many opportunities to receive grants and much larger grants. Large-scale producers do not have that much support. Big, yeah, they still get half the benefits. To be honest, I do not object to the little ones getting a little more because the big ones have a scale effect, certainly, the big ones are more effective, certainly. But there's a place under the sun for everyone, big and small. Personally, I certainly have no objection if a small producer wants to do his business calmly on his farm, he does not like a bigger venture, and he wants to do everything himself. There you go! I'm sure I don't mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U124	Honourable Riigikogu! There's nothing to do, I have to be guided by a prescribed rule. Thank you, Tõnu Post! The time for questions and answers was over. I beg your pardon from Henn Põllea! I'm opening negotiations. At the request of the initiators, the representatives of the political groups will first receive the floor. On behalf of the Urmas Kruuse Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Very honorable waitresses who performed today! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On the one hand, I want to thank you for this time and for these interesting presentations. We received information directly from the field and the question itself, hedging risks, is very important. Indeed, we very often talk about these things when crises and risks are already in place, but what will happen after this risk has materialised? As the rapporteurs mentioned in their speeches, we have to admit that we are like half-satisfied, we have done as half-satisfied. We can see that some companies who have very well thought through management are better able to withstand crises. European experience says that the greater the share of joint action in management, the easier it will be to survive crises. But as the rumor turned out, the basic source of income for its purpose is actually the price. The volatility of prices literally needs to be clearly taken into account in this sector. As a result, it is a little sad, on the one hand, but on the other hand, perhaps inevitable that we have not reached solutions that would offer a stabilisation of price volatility. I therefore very much hope that this crisis will teach us a proper lesson, so we dare to take these decisions. Indeed, at least in the cost-benefit discussions, we can hear that cereal growers have been the ones who have tried to carry things more for their sector, but I would also be optimistic about other sectors, because this is the only way to deal with this problem well. When we talk about the common agricultural policy and the future, we all know that, in relation to Brexit, four or five billion can indeed leave this sector. If that happens, then the question is how do we manage with these instruments? I agree with those rapporteurs who have made it very clear that they must contribute to profitability without taking subsidies into account. Once this business strategy is in place, we can say that even in the most difficult moments, it is easier to cope. If, in cooperation with the private sector and the state, instruments are in place to survive difficult times, fewer people will probably be able to see those forced out of the sector due to the crisis in the future. I therefore agree with Mr Post, who said that during the milk crisis, some operators left the sector not only because the price was low, but also because their business plan no longer envisaged money for investments. This money may not have continued for one reason or another. But the fact is that when we talk about the price of milk, there must certainly be a decent efficiency to compete on the world market, so the price per kilo and the price of self-production are extremely important. In national terms, how we can link rural areas as a whole is strategically extremely important. If we take up these two pillars and the common agricultural policy, we know that this is not just about economic policy, but about environmental policy and also about social policy. What does social policy mean for us in rural areas? While over 100,000 people were employed in agriculture in the 1990s, there are now 17000 or 18,000 people, while the rest of the people have moved to other rural sectors. But I am certainly the type of person who thinks that the integration of small and large production is absolutely possible and also necessary. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U126	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U127	What, though, has changed or is becoming a problem? It is extremely important that Parliament, too, is able to decide correctly and adequately. To this end, the distribution of money must be transparent and fair. It was already noted in this hall that an article was published in today's Postimees about giving money to breeders. Looks like some of them had bigger advantages because they had better information, and maybe had tricks. This hall certainly cannot afford to have the money that is being distributed in this sector unfairly and to be misused. I very much hope that our Commission, too, will at some point bring this matter up and try to clarify so that there will be no more such cases in the future. Let us look at this discussion and think about the response of the different governments and the previous milk crisis. It can be said that when it comes to applying for exceptional support from Europe, together with our Baltic colleagues, the result was quite positive and good, diplomats and other people did a very good job. But when we look at how these subsidies had an impact on the price, it can be said that, for example, in Latvia and Lithuania, the price that the farmer received was clearly cheaper than in Estonia, but the market felt that those who were alone were the ones who fell the most, because combinates or so-called reception points began to influence their prices most in this sense. From a rural point of view, I think this is extremely important. But maybe I'd be just as optimistic in terms of innovation, it's about what this cow will produce for us once, including energy and heat. It is, in fact, the idea that we should not be very narrow-minded and not be classic in rural and also in agriculture. Everyone can calculate and understand that if there were more than 300,000 cows in the first Republic of Estonia, but the average field milk was two or three times smaller, then it makes sense that if we now had just as many cows, although the field milk is much bigger, then perhaps our environment would not be quite certain that it would all suffer. But it is particularly important to me to think about the export of raw milk, which is happening now, that the completion of this new factory will take away a stick. The wages of rural people will not increase unless we are able to add value to the sector ourselves. This is a clear warning, because we must admit to ourselves that at one point a person's income, salary will determine very much where he is living and in which sector he is working. As a result, the export of raw milk, the production of milk in twice as much as Estonia consumes itself, and the removal of it at a cheap price is, in my opinion, not a criminal activity, at least a similar activity. This is not sustainable in the long term. No matter how we look at it, there is no matter how much production needs to be earned. But personally, I hope that the new CAP, the new common agricultural policy, by its very nature, will mean to the Estonian farmer that he will have a more level playing field. If we look at the current payments per unit or whatever, we can see that we are clearly getting less than this average. If this is the case, then it is important that the average payout increases. But I agree with farmers that an Estonian farmer can manage without subsidies, if farmers from other countries do not receive subsidies. I'm sure they could do just fine. But there is one danger here, because if the common agricultural policy were to disappear and if all subsidies were to disappear, I am convinced that as a small country in Estonia, Estonia would not be able to compete with major countries that find different mechanisms and cash flows in order to support their farmers. Then there might be another situation. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U128	Thank you very much. Monika Haukanõm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U129	Mr. Chairman! Honourable waitresses! How to deal with crises in agriculture has been discussed several times in both the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Riigikogu. But the subject is undoubtedly topical now and will probably remain topical for a while. There are many reasons for the crises, some we talked about today, but some of them we may not have touched very much. First of all, weather-related risks, market volatility and animal diseases, which on many occasions have found a very acute discussion in the large hall of the Riigikogu. After all, humankind has been systematically engaged in animal disease prevention for decades, and we have certainly made some progress in this. Weather risks can also be mitigated and this has been done in Estonia, yes, mostly during Soviet times, with a comprehensive drainage network, as about 60% of the agricultural land in Estonia has been drained. In order to avoid drought damage, however, irrigation systems have been established, especially in gardening. The volatility of markets today depends on a number of factors and, as a general rule, the price fluctuations on Estonia's world market cannot change or affect in any way. In order to cope with these risks in any way, there is an undoubted need to put in place a hedge fund or an insurance system. There are many ways to build the latter, but none of them is easily feasible. This also requires the creation of hedge funds. It should work on the principle that, in good times, resources are collected in reserves and spent at times when risks have emerged, whether they relate to adverse weather conditions, to high price falls in the market or to animal diseases. However, if you look at Estonia's practice so far, it turns out that farmers have often preferred to require the state's loss support in excessive years, as well as support to combat animal diseases (a swine plague is soon remembered) and crisis aid in the case of price falls (the last major crisis was the Russian crisis and the fall in the price of milk on the world market). These grants have been paid from Estonian and partly from European Union funds in Estonia. Perhaps this is also one of the reasons why farmers have so far rejected the proposals and possibilities for setting up an insurance fund. When a rural development plan, or MAK, was drawn up for the financial period 2007 to 2013, the producers took the view that no separate insurance fund would be set up from MAK's funds to hedge risks. This was also the case when the development plan was drawn up for the next period up to 2020, as part of the funding from the budget should have been abandoned for the creation of hedge funds. The fruits of these decisions we're actually tasting a little bit now. Risks are uninsured, losses are not compensated during crises, and there is a repeat of the same pattern as in previous times: politicians have to deal with looking for additional resources, be it from the budget of Estonia or the European Union. It wasn't meant to be a direct charge right now. It is time to do something, but first it is essential to determine what position farmers are now in, to determine what they want and where they want to focus their support money. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U130	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U131	When we are talking about the crisis in agriculture, we should look at the risks associated with food security and the run-out of rural areas. We need to assess them as very important. I am thinking of the important concentration of agriculture and the transformation into an industrialised agriculture. This has been the result of the implementation of the current agricultural policy. If carried forward, Estonian consumers may face an important food security risk. There has not yet been a significant takeover of large farms by foreign investors from third countries, whether they come from China, India, the Arab countries or elsewhere, but in view of world practice, including the experience of certain Member States of the European Union, it has to be said that this threat is real. For example, foreign investors control more than one third of Romanian agriculture. The Free Party considers that a diversified agricultural model based on a wide range of populations is far more resilient to risks than large industrial farming, which is nationally concentrated. The bigger our farms become as a result of agricultural policy, the greater our own risks as consumers will grow. One way to mitigate risks would be to direct agricultural direct payments and rural development aid to the development of broad-based and dispersed agricultural structures, so that family farms are the focus of attention. 'Estonia's Rural Development Plan 2014-2020', which is already being implemented, has taken place in four out of six public rounds of the measure on farmers' investment support. There have always been two and a half times as many grants as there has been money in the grant budget. It would make sense to reduce the aid limits per producer and increase the proportion of holdings in order to allow for an increasing number of farmers. More effective controls should also be introduced to ensure that the same owner is not able to use support limits several times through subsidiaries and associates. Direct payments must also be differentiated according to the size of the holding's agricultural area. Estonia has so far missed these opportunities. To sum it up. In order to move forward with the mitigation of farmers' risks, farmers and politicians need an agreement on which way to go, whether to place some part of the funds from the agricultural policy budget into a hedge fund, where farmers themselves make contributions, or to leave the risks to them in the future. However, in order to mitigate the risk of food security, we need a new approach and changes in agricultural policy. If we want a rural area such as that pointed out by Mart Helme, we need a significant change in agriculture, a shift towards family farms, because the backbone of agriculture is made up of people who are engaged in agricultural production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U132	On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaanus Marrand, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good waitresses! Thank you very much, first of all, to the representatives of the farmers and the country university for their interesting presentations! Economic crises are a very common and systemic phenomenon. Changes in demand and supply ratios on the market are the ones that determine the price. If there are too many goods on the market for which there is not enough buyer, a fall in prices is inevitable. If the price level is long low, it is a crisis. In this sense, agriculture is not very different from any other economic area. Agriculture is made a more specific area of its dependence on climate and weather conditions. It's a facet that doesn't have much to do with it. If it rains too much or not, dealing with such a situation is not in the hands of men, but more in the hands of God, who can also be regarded as one of the farmers' main shareholders. Today's debate might not make sense to focus so much on the difficult weather situations and how to deal with them, as there are relatively generally accepted solutions in the form of an insurance system. However, the Estonian market is too small. However, there is a known interest in harvest insurance by a German insurance company with a cooperative background, which would deal with the Baltic market together. In this way, there can be a bearing market volume that would be satisfied by the insurer and also by the farmer, the premiums would not be excessive. It would only require certain negotiations and the activity of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. We have recent experiences in dealing with the long-term market downturn that can be learned from. Three levels are essential to cope with the crisis. Firstly, of course, the company's own decisions and the size of the risks taken, the second level is the economic policy decisions of the Estonian state, and the third is the measures of the European Union's common agricultural policy. I will start with the measures of the common agricultural policy, because they relate first and foremost to the conditions of competition and markets for which a small country like Estonia is particularly sensitive. First of all, dealing with the crisis and the depth and length of the crisis in the common European economic area are linked to the agreed agricultural policy of all countries. Europe's common market is capable of influencing the world market and at the same time creating stability. During the last dairy crisis, the loss of milk quotas in 2014 was quite an important indicator, leading to a rapid increase in raw milk production in the European Union. As it coincided with Russian policy on food products in the European Union as well as with the fall in demand in China, there were preconditions for a crisis. At the same time, the existence of quotas ensured greater stability for producers, and the European Union's intervention buying-in put the price of raw milk at the bottom. The fact is that the decline in EU market intervention has made markets more unstable and prices volatile. However, I think that the current situation is more acceptable to Estonian producers because it provides opportunities for development and enlargement. Finally, it is a place of political choice for the whole of the European Union: how regulated the common market for agricultural products must be. One thing is clear: the European Union's common agricultural policy is a real umbrella and protection for Estonian agriculture in terms of stability. Speaking of the CAP, the importance of subsidies has always been stressed. These are, of course, important, but more important than subsidies are the common economic space and markets, which would be difficult to access by the Estonian producer alone, and because of the customs barriers, these markets could be inaccessible to us. Speaking of future developments of the European Union's common agricultural policy, it is in Estonia's interest to support its continuation and the conditions of competition that are as equal as possible. As a poor country, we can only lose out in terms of conditions of competition and stability because we can hardly believe that we can pay the same subsidies as the larger and more prosperous countries of the European Union. From this point of view, it is quite right to reach Estonia's domestic measures. It is important for Estonia to open up new markets. In recent years, especially after the so-called Russian crisis, action has also been taken, be it China, Vietnam, Japan and many other countries. It should also be noted here that Estonia's activities in opening up new markets are supported by our membership of the European Union. Without it, it would be much harder, because it is currently being negotiated with a Member State of the European Union. What else could Estonia do internally? I have already pointed out above that I am contributing to the creation of a harvest insurance system. As a second and, I think, interesting proposal, I would like to mention the possibility of creating a kind of stabilisation fund, which has also been discussed for quite a long time. That wouldn't be new. Recently, the Irish dairy association received the Glanbia Innovation Award for the Milk Flex fund. With the help of the State, the cooperative and the producers themselves, this fund helped to add several cents to the price of raw milk, which was very important during the crisis. In itself, it would be conceivable to create a similar stabilisation fund, for example, for Rural Development SA. Rural Development SA is known to be using the amounts of the financial instrument of the European Union. Following the recovery of the loans, these amounts and the interest currently due could be for sowing on that fund. In better times, manufacturers should pay certain contributions for which they would acquire the fund's shares. In a crisis situation, in addition to its own contribution, it would be possible to create a certain leverage with the Fund's resources, and perhaps a period of time would be possible to cope with the crisis more easily. It would certainly be possible for producers to obtain these fund shares for a certain period of time. This fund should be managed by farmers themselves and also by national representatives. It is estimated that some EUR 20 million would be sufficient to launch this fund. If you look at the amounts, they wouldn't be that big. On the other hand, I would like to highlight other options which mean cooperation with the State, as well as cooperation between economic operators themselves. Perhaps the most important thing here is this example of a common dairy industry. This EUR 15 million, which is important to put an end to the transfer of raw milk to Lithuania and Latvia, is the State's contribution, but it actually requires very important cooperation between milk producers themselves, that is, agreements. It is a fact that if this raw milk were brought back home and processed in an efficient and modern industry and exported mainly dairy products, opening up markets as well, producers' impact on milk prices would in fact be absolutely different. However, cooperation is important here. Cooperation should be such that producers can agree on the establishment of a common industry. It would be relatively unacceptable for two producers' cooperatives to compete with each other on the market, no matter what means these industries will be established. This opportunity arises once in the 'century' and needs to be exploited. If it is not used, this failure will be remembered for quite a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, A good crisis must never be lost and every crisis is learned. Estonian farmers are highly learnable and skilled entrepreneurs. They have studied and are learning more, but the most important thing is actually cooperation, cooperation between farmers themselves and cooperation between the country and farmers. It is clear that no crisis can ever be paid for by any country, but to alleviate it, it is precisely cooperation that is necessary to take account of the needs of farmers as well as of real economic policy opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U134	Honourable Riigikogu, the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia has made a procedural proposal and we need to vote on it. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to extend the session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. There were 27 members of the Riigikogu in favour of extending the working time of the plenary session, and there were no votes against or abstentions. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Let's continue the negotiations. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U135	Dear Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Good ambassadors! Good waitresses! First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs today for their constructive and interesting speeches. To be honest, I have to rub my eyes and check my ears when I listen to speeches here and look at the result of the vote, because no one's gonna curse us in today's debate, so something is different. But I will go to my speech. In previous speeches, risks were mapped out and options for mitigating them were discussed. For my part, I would like to add a few more points. The most important thing, especially when politicians come to the remote, not specialists, is to report to ourselves what is within our power and what is not. Without, as the people have said before, we cannot change. In fact, if we acknowledge ourselves honestly, we cannot change the policy of the European Union either, although I know it, all members of the government coalition will immediately protest. There is no doubt that we cannot prevent certain unexpected events, such as swine plague, even though we already have the means to manage its consequences or costs. But what are the risks that we should talk about, what can we prevent, or what can we mitigate? I would like to argue with some of the previous speakers who were here talking about the common market in the European Union, claiming that this will give us access to the common market. In fact, practical life is much sadder, it's a one-way street. We know that Latvians and Lithuanians are selling milk and eggs to our market, we know that Finns are selling pork and other goods, but our exports outside our neighbouring countries are still ridiculously small in this large common European market. This is not a comment on the capacity of our producers, but it comments on the administrative capacity of our country to ensure that there is a common market and we have a level playing field in accessing it. This is very clearly linked to the financing of the European common agricultural policy. After all, it is clear that we have been in a dumping situation for ten years, in fact throughout our membership period, so even longer. Despite the fact that Estonian producers are paid support money, we know that they are not competitive, because older Member States, for example, also those Member States that have been better able to stand up for themselves, such as Poland, receive significantly higher benefits. This means that they will be able to sell their products cheaper and our producers will simply not be able to compete with them. So, unfortunately, the European Union's common agricultural policy is such that, yes, something like that is given, but, as usual, with a spoon given, with a scoop. It's our biggest risk. If we look to the future, the European Union's agricultural policy is the most worrying of all. We know that after Brexit, in the next budget period, there will be no increase in money, rather, on the contrary, the money will decrease. Is it worth hoping that the gap between our support and that of the old Member States will be significantly reduced? I don't believe it. If it does, I will, but I won't. In fact, in the next few years, we will be at a very serious risk, perhaps either a reduction in or a continuation of the European Union's support money at a level where we will continue to compete with dumping. Another very important risk is what was touched by the reports in this section, which is the introduction of cheap labour from Ukraine. Let's say the code word is 'Ukraine', you can also say it's coming from some third countries. But bringing cheap labour from Ukraine is terribly damaging to our regional policy and agricultural production in the long run, as it suppresses wages in rural areas and deprives farms of the need to invest in productivity growth. This means that, in a ten-year perspective, we will be further behind in competition than other countries in the same market. So there is clear economic damage and there is, of course, regional damage, and there is demographic damage. So this is a very important risk for our agriculture, which already exists, and this risk can only deepen. This is something that is clearly behind political decisions and choices. The third important risk we talked about here once, but what I want to stress once again is that property moves to foreign capital. I am sure that the remote control will soon come to Jürgen Ligi, who will beat me for it, but in fact the question is very simple: are the people of Estonia masters or servants? The fastest process is that of agriculture, where the crisis does not result in a reduction in production volumes, perhaps temporarily, but has resulted in a wave of bankruptcies and takeovers of domestic companies. Perhaps this is not always a bankruptcy, but simply an emergency sale of companies to international funds or to large companies operating in the old Member States. We can talk about a free market that does not exist in agriculture, we can talk about the free movement of capital, but the fact is that it turns Estonians into a pop in their own country. This is a trend or trend which must not be accepted and which must be adopted in every way possible. These are the measures to be put in place in this Chamber. So if we ask what we can do, the answer is that, yes, without any change, we cannot fundamentally change the common budgetary policy of the European Union, we cannot prevent a swine plague or any other such thing, but we can make sure that our labour market is not being overslaught by cheap labour from some third country, and we can stand up for our own entrepreneurs to be masters in our own country. That's our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U136	On behalf of the Group of the Martin Repinski Centre Party. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U137	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, This topic, which we are talking about today, is very important not only for us farmers, but it is important for Estonia as a whole and for the Estonian people. I am really glad that we had excellent presentations today. Thank you very much. There were both practical and theoretical aspects and thoughts here. I think that when we put them together, the truth that we have to apply in life is happening somewhere, and from which we can lead agriculture to growth in the future. Let's see what agriculture is. This is a very complex and interesting area. What was the situation in this area when the new government came in November last year? Really, you could even use a word like that, I think, "awful." Clearly, agriculture is accompanied by both rising times and crises. At the moment when the new government took on the development of this sector, there was the deepest crisis. Why is this area even important? One reason is definitely food production, the other is employment, but it should not be forgotten about the security issue. Food production, agriculture and land ownership have a very solid and strong security aspect. When the coalition negotiations started, I can safely tell you, there were a lot of meetings. We discussed very much how to support and what to do in this sector, with representatives of the sector, including representatives of agricultural organisations. To a large extent, I can assure you, what has resulted is this coalition agreement signed by the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica, the Social Democrats and the Centre Party, precisely because of the proposals that we have heard repeatedly. We've received letters, too. I even have one letter, which has been put together jointly by a number of farmers' organisations and which was, in fact, the basis for the formalisation of the coalition agreement, particularly in rural and agricultural areas. Grants are one of the largest instruments with the help of which the government can influence the sector. Why do you even need these grants? On the one hand, agriculture is, in a sense, the same business as everyone else. But if we think that our neighbours, other countries with which we trade in the common market, can support farmers, but if we do not support or support less, we will damage our farmers and other representatives of this sector. In recent years, before the new government came, the top-up was not paid, but at the same time Latvia and Lithuania, for example, have paid it almost in full, and they have also paid breeding premiums. This was one of the fundamentals of the sector, if you could say so, a complaint to the former government, because it was all detrimental to competitiveness. Similarly, there was a major problem and a major crisis in the pig sector. I remember very well that when we spoke to representatives of the sector at these meetings, their specific message was that the pig sector needs to receive EUR 5 million per year of breeding aid to recover, it is possible to quickly bring the sector to the same level as it was before the crisis. I can assure you that the representatives of our group and of our party represented precisely this idea in the coalition negotiations, but unfortunately our budget is limited. The agreement remained that we were able to put only 2 million into the state budget this year in order to pay breeding aid to the pig sector. I honestly say that on the one hand it is sad, on the other hand it is funny to read the accusations against us, as if we had paid the money to our acquaintances or had requested it for them. I can tell you that we are certainly not ashamed that at least this amount has been paid out. Of course, it could be bigger. If you want to attack someone, you can attack me and you can tell me that I have to resign from the Riigikogu because I have protested against the agricultural policy of the previous government in front of the Riigikogu with farmers, and I have always insisted and insisted on paying transitional allowances in full, and now I have received these subsidies on the account of my company, say so. If you look at it like that, it turns out that this is direct corruption, and maybe I have to resign from the Riigikogu if I act in accordance with its logic. Actually, it's really funny. This desire of the opposition or of any interested party to attack the government coalition sometimes transcends all kinds of boundaries. But in fact, we are willing to suffer it and we are not ashamed of it at all because we see what is happening in the sector right now. When we talk to farmers, we understand, and I personally see it within the sector, that life really has improved a great deal. Of course, a great deal remains to be done and a great deal needs to be achieved for this sector in particular. Surely we are not limited to what has been done. But a great deal has already been done: the same transitional aid, the same breeding aid for pig farming, and the next year, the top-up, is coming up with a number of measures such as export development. For this, of course, one can thank the current government in particular, along with Jüri Ratas, because it was always his priority, I remember very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U138	Excellent! Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U139	He talked about it all the time, and he also stressed it during the coalition negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U140	On behalf of the Group of the Helir-Valdor Seeder Fatherland and Res Publica Association. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U141	Thank you. I'm asking for eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U142	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, agriculture has been discussed in particular through the prism of the crisis. I want to talk more generally about agriculture, give a more comprehensive view and talk about our important choices and pains. Land policy first. I am thinking not only of the relationship between foreign capital and domestic owners, which is also important, but certainly also of the concentration of land and small-country owners, and of our tax and subsidy policies, which do not favour small-country owners very much. But separately, in relation to land policy, I want to raise an issue which I do not think has been raised yet and which is a fundamentally important issue in agriculture, because the land is a fundamental pillar of agricultural production. The protection of fertile agricultural land. The laws that exist in Estonia do not protect it. We know very well that forest land is protected in Estonia, that forest land is very precisely regulated, that forest land is and how it needs to be restored. It doesn't occur to any of us that we're gonna take out the forest, make a long way out there and build a home for ourselves. But we can see all around Estonia that houses have been built not on hundreds of fields, but on thousands of fields. These homes, built on fertile agricultural land, cut up our agricultural land masses. A funny agricultural land, as we know from school, is an unrecoverable natural resource. In Viimsi, for example, 25 years ago, there were over 6,000 hectares of agricultural land. At the moment, if I am not mistaken, there are less than 100 hectares of agricultural land in the PRIA register in the municipality of Viimsi. This process is not abstract and far from us, it is very practical. Estonia needs protection of fertile agricultural land at the level of the Act, as is the case in most EU Member States. This does not mean that we need to lock down all forms of development and building up, especially in densely populated areas, but this problem needs legal regulation. Another important issue is definitely the balance in Estonian agriculture, the balance between diversity and specialisation. Diversity also means, in a sense, viability in the event of crises, because if there is a crisis in one sector, then the other sector will make it, but on the other hand, specialization is important where we can build on our strengths. Estonia must take advantage of its advantage in the cultivation of herbaceous plants, their appreciation in the dairy and meat sectors. It is important how much we focus on this, how we contribute to this advantage and concentrate our production and power on it, and how diverse agricultural production is and how we direct it to policy. It is also important to consider how to find an optimal balance between industrial scale production and family production based on farms. Intensive production, organic and ecological production, concentration of production or scattered production, these are the choices. The opportunities we have to guide the process are certainly a very important issue in shaping Estonia's agricultural policy. Thirdly, they are all linked to the creation of added value, joint action and export. Estonia is a small country, our production volumes are actually negligible for the world market. If we want to successfully go to the global market, we need to work together, we need to use joint action much more than we have done so far. There's been a lot of talk about this. This concerns the purchase of inputs, access to foreign markets, and also the quality of production. This concerns the question of leaving work, taxes and added value in Estonia. We have a good example of cooperation and joint action between farmers through KEVILI, but this work will also actually end too early, because if the end result of a cereal cooperative is a ship that is shipped across the sea or across the ocean, it is not the end result that we could aim for ourselves. We could value the grain much more here, not out of it as raw materials. The same applies to raw milk and to a number of other areas. So joint action, which also aims to reach export markets, is certainly an important issue in shaping Estonian agricultural policy. Next, agricultural education and agricultural science, or the people on whom agriculture relies. Their share is very low, but agricultural production is a very specific area requiring more and more knowledge and scientific convergence. Plant breeding, breeding, GMOs, animal cloning, that's actually all part of medical science, I'd say. We know very well that a number of things that have reached medical science and are used to treat people have been previously tested on animals, and not only in experimental procedures, but also in real life. So these same things, GMOs, cloning, are necessary in a wider sense, not just for agriculture and agricultural science. In fact, agricultural science is clearly part of the national sciences because the climate, geographical position, soil and the specific knowledge and work experience that are combined here, concentratedly, are unique, such an association is only in this region. We cannot successfully grow here those varieties that have been bred from somewhere in the south or in another climate zone. We cannot successfully cultivate these breeds of animals that have been bred in other regions. In this sense, agricultural science is geographically local and, I would say, part of national science. This is an extremely important subject. The common agricultural policy has been discussed here today, but I still want to say a few keywords. The extent to which we are able to realise our particularities and interests in the common agricultural policy is a very important issue and will remain for the next few years. Despite the fact that this is a very bureaucratic system, which employs a large number of agricultural politicians, diplomats and officials, I must say that the common agricultural policy financed by the common budget is far better than 28 different agricultural policies in the European Union, where richer countries are able to pay more subsidies to their farmers and thereby increase unequal competition. So here we must definitely be active and represent our interests. The last keyword is the image of agriculture, the attention given to agriculture and rural areas in general. It's very important. Agriculture is by its very nature an area of knowledge-intensive, interesting, innovative and modern technology. The notion that this is a black, outdated and obsolete area is certainly not a reality. I think it is in the interest of the whole sector to develop this positive image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U144	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Not a very large part of this debate today responded to the title. This title is 'How to deal with crises in agriculture? '. In fact, the professor's presentation and some comments on the subject would have sufficed, but everything else was discussed. I would like our debates to be academically more meaningful. Academically, I intervene in those subjects where there are points of contact with my specialties, these are nature and economics. Among them, yes, agriculture does not exactly belong, which is why I do not speak on most of the topics here. All I'm saying about crises is that I didn't mention a thing called a psychological crisis. It still seems permanent, and it can devastate agriculture more than bad weather. We hear statements about how we need to close in a mad way and how Estonia cannot export these two things at the same time. On the one hand, that Estonia does not export anything, on the other hand, that we close ourselves for others, let us not let anything or anyone else in. It's a psychological problem. 'Let's not let foreign owners in here! " Have foreign owners really been some sort of suffocating mass, or have they somehow brought down the quality of agriculture? I would argue that they have rather brought about a good change and filled the gaps that, unfortunately, we have had in our ability to deal with agriculture. Of course, there are crazy exceptions. I would also like to mention, in academic terms, that our food would be more expensive if there were no subsidies. I would have liked to hear a little more about it because I'm not sure that's the case. Besides the subsidies, there are thousands of other protectionist measures that give one edge of the world a huge advantage and take away opportunities from other sides of the world. Are you sure about this? And when it comes to input prices, these prices are going to go to the sky, that's just my academic statement, not my agricultural policy statement, precisely on the basis of subsidies. In agriculture, super expensive machines are used for a very short period of time, and they are still largely pumped there for money. And then they say the inputs are going to be expensive. This is a somewhat controversial argument, apart from the fact that we defend ourselves against regions that are sufficiently capable of agricultural production. But I don't know what the final answer is. It's still a popular old cliché that keeps prices down like this. I'd rather think about what would happen to landscapes than suddenly end these subsidies. I fear that nothing very bad will happen at food prices, at least there are different opinions on this issue. There was this place that specially drove me here. I hope that Mart Helme, speaking after me, will improve his response. The Kremlin's question was why we do not abolish the sanctions imposed on Russia. Mart, instead of rejecting such a claim, began to curse the Republic of Estonia and its vassal nature. To be honest, if I were very malicious, I'd say, look at how the opposites get together all the time in the Kremlin. Actually... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U146	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U147	We don't have to sell everything. In the case of this vassal nature, he gave an example on the subject of customs. On the subject of customs, we can also say exactly the opposite: what we did not do a few years before the European Union may have been a great relief for us to enter the European market. In any case, no serious number indicates that Estonian agriculture was in any way less competitive than Latvia and Lithuania, although it is still the southernmost country and there was also more free labour, even though the labour force is a direct problem. These are the things I wanted to respond to and say more positive, otherwise we will no longer have employees in the country. Of course, to Martin Repinski, I would have liked to say that it's not okay if you come in here and tell me it's funny if someone says we can't steal. It is very clear that in bus traffic, in my opinion in the school network or in agriculture, money is distributed very clearly to its own, discriminatoryly. It's not okay, and it's not worth laughing at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U148	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U149	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to come to the end of the issue, because this discussion and this crucial national issue were initiated by our group here. I am pleasantly surprised that the response in this Chamber was good, participation in the debate was active, the questions were practical and, frankly, practically no turning away. Now, Jürgen, about some of your observations, especially those that touched my person. I have to say, you misunderstood a little bit. I did not call for the sanctions imposed against Russia to be lifted. The fact that Russia's agriculture has made a very good development in recent years is an objective necessity, there is nothing we can do about it. Like it or not, that's right. Sanctions, as I have also said, have been very clearly damaging to Russia's finances, and have very clearly damaged certain export sectors in Russia, so that sanctions work and they have undoubtedly forced Russia into a much more restrained policy than would otherwise have been likely to have been. So on these issues, I think we're in quite similar positions, we don't have any reason to argue here. But the subject is indeed very broad and it can be dealt with from an academic point of view, as was partly done today, from a practical point of view, as was partly done today, and also, let us say, from a national administrative or legislative point of view, which was practically not at issue today. These are the things that should actually all be put together. It is not possible to make any history directly in a single debate. But I don't think it's gonna run down sideways either. I am only pleased when another group comes to this Chamber with the same subject to discuss a crucial national issue, or to find another angle of approach. Undoubtedly, for example, a very broad problem- and theme circle, I have got one small question only on this subject to put to the question of our agricultural products and their exports. I remember that when I was working at the embassy in Moscow, I tried to find contacts to bring Estonian agricultural products to the Moscow market. The Moscow market was already 15 to 16 million people. That would undoubtedly have been very tempting. But when I was asked what your sour cream quantities, potato quantities, carrot quantities were, and I contacted our agencies, and I was told that I couldn't remember from my head exactly how much we would be able to deliver to Moscow in, for example, a month, then I was told that I was sorry, but this is the amount of a few weeks in one city district, but there is a need for continuous delivery guarantees. That's why they went on with the Dutch and the Danes. This is again such a difficult question. On the one hand, we do not have enough production, on the other, we cannot start producing more if we do not have anywhere to put it. Shut the fuck up, open the tail. There is certainly no quick solution. We are not only talking about the Russian market; we are also talking about the US market, the Chinese market and the Indian market. The market is very, very much in the world. As has been said, there is no quick solution to these issues, but this is certainly a vital area for selling and making money and producing enough to make as much money as possible. Today we were practically unable to draw attention to this issue here, but I am only glad if someone comes here with this subject and specialists come and dissect these problems in depth. I won't hold anyone for long, everyone's tired, and the committees are sitting. Thanks, everybody! We'll go on as united as we are today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U150	Jürgen Ligi has the right to object. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U151	Thank you. I must assure you that I did not accuse Marti Kremlin of criticising the sanctions. I just complained to him that he didn't answer the question that came straight from the Kremlin. I would like to say to him on the subject of Russia that it is very wrong, precisely in the academic dimension, to identify Russia's and Estonia's opportunities in protectionism. A large market can sometimes turn the situation in its favour. I do not believe that Russia can do this, but if Russia's agriculture is doing well, the only reason for this is a very large internal market and a very large supply deficit, not that sanctions would be beneficial for Russia in agriculture. They could also bring greater benefits to agriculture by acting smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U152	The Minister of Agriculture, Tarmo Tamm, has also wished to use his say in the debate on this item. Please, Minister of Agriculture! Minister of Rural Affairs, I'm sorry! Oh, my God! That's how long you've been here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U153	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear guest speakers, who made very meaningful presentations! I have to apologize first, there's a meeting of the Government of the Republic on Thursday, and unfortunately I couldn't be here during the presentations, but I'm definitely going to read the verbatim. I already know that there was a very meaningful debate, as Mart Helme said on behalf of the EKRE Group. I would like to thank the EKRE Group for bringing this issue on the agenda of the Riigikogu. I like that agriculture is being spoken more and more in the Riigikogu, agriculture is being spoken of as an opportunity for our future and a very big opportunity. Estonia has great potential in agriculture. I think we're getting the hang of it more and more, and we're taking advantage of it more and more. There will be 9 billion people in the world in just a few decades, and they will need more and more food, 70% food needs will increase, and water will be needed to grow food. We have all met these conditions. If we put science and our traditions here, we'll see that this is our huge opportunity. Once again, this is our huge opportunity. But today's topic was crises. Crisis situations are also very relevant in the European Union. The weather did not cause problems only in Estonia. This spring, vineyards were frozen in Italy and France; in the Council of the European Union there was a summer debate on how to help farmers in Portugal, Spain, Italy and Malta to reduce the damage caused by drought. As you know, we have called on the European Commission to support farmers in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in solving the problems caused by the exceptionally large number of rainfalls. I hope for a positive response from the Commission. As President-in-Office of the European Union, Estonia has given a great deal of attention to crises. While there was an informal meeting of the European Union's agriculture ministers in Tallinn, its main topic was crisis, overcoming and coping with them. A week ago, the European Commission came up with a new communication on the CAP 2020+. I can assure you that the interests of the Estonian farmer are reflected in this communication, whether it be about equalising direct payments, managing risk or simplifying agricultural policy. I can say that during our Presidency, the Omnibus regulation was also adopted, which will be in force as early as 1 January 2018 and will bring the farmer, I think, very much joy, because part of it will be easier to manage agriculture and it will be allowed to pay significantly more subsidies to young farmers. One very positive thing is that Member States are given greater rights to shape this policy themselves, because the Member States are very different. Of course, our chance is to export. Right now, we're selling 36% of the raw materials. There has been a lot of talk here about raw milk, but we also sell other products. 36%! Every day, 600 tons of raw milk goes to Latvia and Lithuania. If we were to deserve this in Estonia, the state, entrepreneurs and also the state budget would be considerably richer, but now we are giving this money to our neighbours. The first steps have been taken in this direction, a winner has emerged who should start to build large-scale production. But I admit that the problems are still in the house with how to find consensus among farmers. The positive outcome of this project comes when farmers finally agree among themselves, but this final agreement, as far as I know, is not today. It is certainly one of the tasks of the state and the government to ensure a more level playing field for their farmers. As I said, our farmer will probably get better competitive conditions with CAP 2020+... I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U154	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U155	... even through a single area payment. But there is a very big role here, and there is also a role for the country. The number of dairy cows decreased by more than 12000 in 2014, while the number of pigs decreased by more than 100000, but the government did not pay the transitional allowance, the top-up, which could be paid EUR 70 million. I ask what a chance our farmers had to survive in the first place. The fact that they survived is a miracle, because the neighbors took advantage of this opportunity to pay for it. This is the main task of the State to ensure equal conditions of competition for its producer. I can tell you that all these falls have stopped this year, dairy farming has gone up, new farms are being built, the pig sector has also gone up a little. I hope that the maximum possible subsidies paid by the government will also help these sectors. We must make wise choices. We must do what the market requires and what our climatic conditions allow. Maybe we shouldn't nostalgize and just do what we've traditionally always done. We need to look at what the market requires and where we can be successful. In the internal market, we do not have enough pork, there is not enough lamb, there is not enough poultry or vegetables. This is our chance to leave money in the country and offer new jobs. We still have a great deal of opportunity to increase milk production and to reward it. Meat beef is one of our great opportunities, too, because we have a lot of grasslands, 110000 hectares, but we just mow the hay and leave it there. There's no way to afford that. Positive steps have also been taken in export markets. As we know, a free trade agreement was signed between the European Union and Japan. This agreement was prepared for about ten years. In any case, Commissioner Hogan has said that this is a good agreement for a European farmer. We are now gaining more and more access to the Japanese market, and this is our chance. At the same time, we have worked very well with the Chinese ambassador, who unfortunately is now leaving Estonia, he went on a farewell visit yesterday, or it was the day before yesterday. A delegation from the Chinese Parliament also visited the Estonian Parliament, the Chinese Minister of Agriculture has promised to visit Estonia the following year, and I met him in Slovenia this year. So, in addition to the immediate markets we have, Latvia, Lithuania and Finland, we need to look further. These large-scale productions are being built for this purpose in order to be very strong in exports. I will also say that there are also financial opportunities for creating an additional large industry, EUR 5.5 million still awaits a good project, a good idea and a proposal to build something that will enable us to be competitive in the export market. There hasn't been a good offer for today. So...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U156	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U157	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Thank you all for putting this on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-07_U158	Honourable Riigikogu, honourable guests, thank you for your participation. The plenary session of the Riigikogu is closed. Closure of the sitting at 1.19 p.m.
