ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will begin the session of the eighth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. If the members of the Riigikogu wish to hand over drafts or enquiries, now is exactly the time to do so. Please, the chair is open! There is no wish for this, which is why we need to carry out a presence check. Checking for presence. 74 members of the Riigikogu are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U2	Ladies and gentlemen, We will begin the review of the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the law on sports initiated by Jüri Jaanson, Hanno Pevkur, Kalle Palling, Meelis Mälberg, Lauri Luige, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Deniss Borodichi, Yoko Alenderi, Laine Randjärve, Heidy Purga, Arto Aasa, Kalle Laaneti, Remo Holsmeri, Aivar Sõerdi and Valdo Randpere. The political groups now have the opportunity to negotiate. Please, Jüri Jaanson, on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U3	Good ambassadors! [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] The Olympic victory has always been special to our little people. Reaching it triggers the emotion of the general public.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U5	For an athlete, the Olympic victory is generally the goal of his career's dreams, to which a foundation is created already in his childhood and for which an alternative longer-term career is often abandoned in another field. The Olympic victory in Estonia is a rarity that we have experienced only 26 times in the history of the Republic of Estonia over almost 100 years, most recently almost ten years ago. The next opportunities will come in the coming winter and then already in 2020. Whether this win comes, it's a question of our own, but let's hope and keep our fingers crossed. We have even less Olympic winners: 21 through all our history, 14 of them among us. These are the people we appreciate because of their contributions, their choices and their attainment and in return for their emotions. A bit of a comparison. Both the first period of independence and the period after the restoration of independence have given us equally five Olympic winners, you may be slightly different, six and seven. Since the occupation, we have 12 winners and 13 titles. It's not easy to get to the Olympics, and it's not easy to pick on your knee. Levels are rising and competition is increasing, and scientific and technical progress is contributing. If we are to continue to enjoy great accomplishments, we must value what we have done and contribute to broadening the opportunities for athletes. Allowing for a double career, securing social guarantees and modernising training centres are a sure way to do this. Regeneration of offspring is ensured by valuing the work of coaches. The assessment of the winners of the Paralympic Games as worthy of public support is also a hallmark and a very important feature of the welfare state. Those who have reached their goals in spite of the choices they make in sport must be assessed and recognised. What else encourages a young person with disabilities to test, develop, and unlock their potential, if not to know about its recognition and importance? 12 years ago, a sports law was passed in the Riigikogu, Chapter 2 of which was dedicated to Olympic winners and winners of the Paralympic Games...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U6	Good waitress, can I stop you for a second? Ladies and gentlemen, We're talking about Olympic winners right now, and there's an Olympic hangar on the remote. I beg you to pay attention to the speaker. If anyone has anything to discuss with each other, it's possible to do it in the hallway. I think we could pay attention to what's being said on the remote. Thank you. Please, George!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U7	I hope I'm not disturbing you here. 12 years ago, a sports law was passed in the Riigikogu, Chapter 2 of which was devoted to the support of Olympic winners and the winners of the Paralympic Games. The law introduced a grant of EUR 650 for the winner (in 2005 it was a public grant of an average salary of one and a half) at retirement age and ten years before that. Unfortunately, the cost of living has moved from year to year along its upward curve and the allowance is now almost already close to the minimum wage. I am therefore pleased that the draft law amending the Sport Act, which was initiated on behalf of members of the Sports and Movement Support Group of the Riigikogu, aims primarily and most importantly to link the Olympic Winner Support to the average salary as a fiscal instrument accompanying the cost of living, has reached a third reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U8	Good waitress, would you like some extra time? Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U9	It can be argued and argued about the amount, adequacy and conditions of the aid, but it must accompany the price increase and the cost-of-living index. It's a question of dignity. I would like to thank the members of the Sports and Movement Support Group of the Riigikogu for their contributions and the officials of the Cultural Commission and the Chancellery of the Riigikogu for their work. With the entry into force of the Act at the beginning of the next year, 2018 one of the current challenges of our sport will be eliminated and the achievements of top sports will be appreciated with dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to contribute to the vote on the end of the third reading of draft law amending the Law on Sport and Sport 426. Finally, I wish successful launches for our athletes, young people as well as for the top, in particular for the title competitions and for those preparing for the 2018 Winter Olympics. Good luck catching the bluebird! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U10	Next on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein. Three minutes extra time, eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U11	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going back in time to start. At first reading of this draft, I mentioned that it is a highly emotional draft. Today, I would stress, alongside emotions, the practicality and the fact that the draft calls for further reflection. I'll explain later what I mean by the final statement. Emotions are offered by sport of course, of which none of us doubt. I myself grew up in a home where the newly bought TV was used to support Jaan Talts' achievements. I believe many will remember that in 1968 Talts missed the Olympic victory, but in 1972 the victory came relatively firmly. The new olympiads also offer emotions. We can only imagine how patient competitions in archery and cheapness took place in 1948 at the Ludwig Guttmann Clinic, a doctor responsible for spinal injury, which was the first step in the development of the Paralympic Games. However, I do remember, emotionally speaking, the wheelchair ride planned as a model area at Seoul Olympics in 1988. I would like to express my satisfaction that the support of Olympic winners and Paralympic winners is the same. I believe that we will be very pleased and proud of such a decision in the future. The practicality of the draft is also evident, as only a few Olympic areas have the capacity to be at the top for decades and to secure themselves for life. The reality is that every Olympic winner comes at a moment when he has to live a routine day-to-day life. The Olympic winner would probably feel a little more secure if it were working as a coach in the sports world. Life, however, does not always offer such an opportunity. We also have warning examples of how the Olympic winner has not been able to cope very well with the changed circumstances. The draft we are discussing today gives a certain degree of certainty. Now, to the aspects that I have mentioned that the draft calls for further reflection. I'll name some of them. I'm not denying that I'm looking at Jüri Jaanson sitting in the first row, that I think a lot of the silver or bronze medals won at the Olympic Games are brighter than some gold. Maybe someday we'll get to the point that we can also create support for the silver or bronze athletes who won the Olympics. Secondly, I'm looking at a few lines backwards, Andres Ammas right now at an empty spot, and I admit I'm really sorry that chess was left out of here. After all, the athlete of the Estonian century is Paul Keres. Jaan Ehlvest, who, as far as I know, is a citizen of the United States of America, has been chosen twice as the best athlete in Estonia, in all areas of competition. But it's true that chess isn't an Olympics, that means chess Olympics is another Olympics, and a line had to be drawn somewhere. Thirdly, the coefficients of 1.3 and 0.65 were examined on several occasions during the procedure of the draft. Maybe it's more obvious that these coefficients eventually fell to 1.0. However, it is certainly possible to discuss further whether this 1,0, the average wage, has been set in stone. In summing up, it seems to me that with the draft we are debating today, we are following in the footsteps of the decision we made some 80 years ago. The second Olympic winner, Kristjan Palusalu, was given a farm by Konstantin Päts, then a state elder. At the time, it was not usually very rich with the farm, but it was an opportunity to live at a good average level. The idea of the gift was that the farm would provide the Olympic winner with work and bread for the rest of his life. We also know that this was not the case with Kristjan Palusalu because of the twists of history. However, this thinking is similar to the principle of today's draft, in order to ensure that Estonia is honoured and famous and that the young Olympic winners who have set an example are calm as well as older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U12	Next on behalf of the Centre Party Group, Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U13	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, With everything the two previous speakers said, I'm sure I'll agree. But I can bring in some names. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and myself, I thank Jüri Jaanson, who took this tow! I agree with Thomas that all the Olympic winners, if not at the very nearest time, would certainly deserve recognition in the near future also in order to receive public support while they are away from their main job and have not yet reached retirement pension. The Olympic winners and, in fact, all those heroes who make Estonia big in the world are very important; they offer a lot of emotions. Not to mention Erika Salumäe, whose Olympic victory in 1992 in Estonia was crucial to all of us, because our flag was pulled in the wrong direction in hot Barcelona. Maybe it symbolized this victory even better in some ways. In this Chamber, I was somewhat embarrassed during the debate on this bill, and I did not feel good when we opposed the traditional Olympic winners and the Paralympic winners. I think it is good that we have now returned to the idea of this draft 12 years ago and that the two Olympic winners, who are actually both extremely important to us and both compete in the Olympic Games, also in the Olympic Games of the same year, will receive equal recognition. I also certainly think that this bill will bring one important thing to today and eliminate the backwardness that has arisen in 12 years. There is, of course, further thinking and looking at how to increase these coefficients and bring in other Olympians. So the Estonian Centre Party invites us to vote in favour of this bill together. Surely this is one place where we can all vote for one good thing in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U14	The political groups have no further requests to speak. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote on 426. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. I vote on the draft law amending the sports law initiated by Jüri Jaanson, Hanno Pevkur, Kalle Palling, Meelis Mälberg, Lauri Luige, Andres Ammas, Monika Haukanõmme, Deniss Borodichi, Yoko Alender, Laine Randjärve, Heidy Purga, Arto Aasa, Kalle Laaneti, Remo Holsmeri, Aivar Sõerdi and Valdo Randpere. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. Bill 426 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U15	The second item on today's agenda is the second reading of draft 453 amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (amending the treatment of juvenile offenders). I would like to ask for a chair of the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Karilaidi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U16	Thank you to the manager. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft act took place on 20 September and the deadline for the submission of proposals was 4 October. No proposals were made from the Riigikogu. The Committee on Legal Affairs prepared a second reading at three meetings: 16 October and 6 and 13 November. A representative of the Estonian Bar Association, a representative of the Ministry of Justice and officials of the Ministry of the Interior and the Public Prosecutor's Office took part in the committee meeting. The Commission decided to propose ten amendments to the draft, in cooperation with the initiators and practitioners. All the proposals have been distributed to the members of the Riigikogu in precise wording along with explanations. I would particularly highlight proposal 3. The draft is supplemented by a new § 3, amendments to the Courts Act. The proposed changes give the Court's Administrative Advisory Board the power to confirm the more precise bases for the judges' work-sharing plans and the principles for the specialisation of judges. It is specifically stipulated that the work plans of the courts must ensure that judges specialise in cases relating to minors. Well, all ten proposals are not important, but I've just made such a highlight. The proposals were not voted separately in the Committee on Legal Affairs; all (Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Taavi Rõivas, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Valdo Randpere and Jaanus Karilaid) were consensually in agreement with them. It was decided to send the draft to the third reading when the second one was closed and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U17	Good waitress, members of the Riigikogu have questions for you. First Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The policemen from the city of Võru visited the Riigikogu yesterday and we also discussed this draft. They were basically very supportive of the state taking the approach that we do not have young criminals, but we have young people or children who need help. But the big concern is that if we start looking for the reasons why a minor has gone into the way of an offence, it turns out that there is a need for specialists to deal with these young people, but there are really few specialists. The police told stories where young people have been in line for six months before receiving the help they needed. Did that raise the issue in the committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U19	Yeah, the topic was raised. With the signature of the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the corresponding letter to the Minister of the Interior, Andres Anvelt, went on to answer this letter, where it was pointed out that it is important to have these support networks all over Estonia, which deal with prevention and the whole issue. So it was dealt with, but today there is not yet a very clear plan as to whether it can be moved forward and given more resources. We are working to ensure that the existing network is not broken. However, this has been the subject of debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U20	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U21	Thank you, good manager. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I'm asking about the practical side. If we can use socially useful work as one of the levers in the future, what will it really look like? Who will be assigned this task? Who will control it, and what kind of work should these minors do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U22	In itself, this list of means of influencing minors really gets longer and wider. In addition to a warning, a social programme and compensation for damage, it is a matter of behavioural control, community service and the application of restrictions on freedom of movement. The toughest measure is to be placed in a closed childcare facility. But the use of this 5 to 60-hour community service takes place in cooperation. We know that there will be no more juvenile committees from the new year. As I mentioned earlier, very many of the grounds for decision-making go to the judicial system, the administrative court. So this will be done in cooperation with the child welfare specialist of the municipality, teachers at the school and the court of first instance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U23	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question concerns Amendment 3. I consider it very right to specialise in judges, especially those who deal with children's issues. Liina Kersna said that we have few specialists with the appropriate skills and knowledge. My question is whether we have such judges. Some exist, some courthouses deal specifically with these issues, but what are we going to do to ensure that we have specialised judges in each courthouse to best protect children's interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U25	Thank you. I'll be sure to be more specific. Indeed, this specialization exists at the district court, but I have already mentioned it once with this proposal, but I would also like to mention that the courts of first instance specialise in dealing with minors and amend the law of the courts and give such a task that the court administration council lays down these principles and principles of specialisation. In the future, I think, we will be able to carry out parliamentary scrutiny of the implementation of this proposal to see how the Courts of First Instance specialise. However, as far as dealing with minors are concerned, when you look at proposal No 3 on the list of proposals, you will see that there is a very long explanation, very thorough, reference has also been made to the UN Convention on the Protection of Children. I am not going to read all this here, but if, let's say, more resources are found through the police department or the local government can find more from its own resources, then there is now a guideline that the courts of first instance must specialise in it. How will it work in practice, will it improve the reality of the situation? I believe it will, but let the law enter into force and then you can see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U26	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U27	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I'm sure there's a change to make something better. When we think about children, we want their path to be fully law-abiding and ultimately no one will be severely punished. But was it also a discussion about whether and how many of these changes could trigger the improvement compared to today's situation? I am thinking here, even if a young person reaches adulthood or if we are forced to send a young person to a certain institution that is certainly not free by its very nature. Was that what we were talking about? How much hope is there if we can compare the situation in, say, five or ten years?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U28	Thank you. Of course, what is the purpose of this law was dealt with at first reading. The noble purpose of the law is, of course, that we wish that a young person who has erred at some stage of his or her age and has gone wrong would not remain on this label forever if he or she has shown that he or she wishes to improve his or her behaviour and has improved it. That is why this package, § 87, which is supplemented, has been made more diverse and focuses more on prevention, dialogue, communication, specialisation, compensation and redress and less on punishment. I think this approach should certainly improve the situation in the future, but it is difficult today to measure exactly how much with a ruler.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U29	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U30	Thank you. I will come back to implementing leverage or leverage measures. I understand that we, at least the legislator, do not have a very clear understanding of how this practical side will work. Would it still not be reasonable for the implementing bodies to have legal clarity in the explanatory memorandum to explain what should be done by one or another institution or who should cooperate? Then it would be easy and understandable how life goes on. It seems to me that those implementing the law may have serious questions about how this practical side works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U31	There could always be cooperation between local government and central authority, between police and school, between child protection specialist and courts. I don't know if excessive formalisation will help. But I can say so much that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not come up with a proposal to put this chain of command or communication in place so rigidly. If it turns out in practice that there are problems with the imposition of sanctions on minors, this can be changed in the future, but this problem did not arise in cooperation with practitioners from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U32	Good waitress, the members of the Riigikogu have no more questions for you. Thank you! Members of the Riigikogu can take the floor in the negotiations at second reading of the bill. Does anyone have such a desire? No, it's not. We will examine the amendments that have been received on this draft. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The third amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the lead committee has taken full account of it. The fifth amendment has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The sixth amendment has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The seventh amendment has been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The eighth amendment has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The ninth amendment has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The 10th amendment has also been taken fully into account by the Committee on Legal Affairs. No further amendments to draft 453 were received. We have examined all the amendments. As the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs was to conclude the second reading of the draft 453, the second reading has been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U33	The third item on today's agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and the Vocational Training Institution Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. On behalf of the initiators, please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu as a member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to present to you a draft, the starting point of which, in my opinion, is the feeling that a certain balance in society has gotten out of hand: the dignity of teachers has been damaged in the course of great freedoms and just an increase in wages is not enough to increase it. I have enough personal and family contacts to claim it. That is why, as Minister of Education, I have initiated this draft. It is said that although the author of this draft and, how to say, the developer is officially a Reform Party, this draft is almost entirely completed in the Ministry of Education, in coordination with interest groups and other ministries. This also applies to the explanatory statement. This has helped to develop a draft that technically meets our best standards. There is certainly no party dimension to this, which should result in an automatic clicking of a button simply because of the name of the performer. I don't know why this bill has stopped. In fact, I know that the procedure for this draft has been suspended without the Ministry of the Interior giving coordination, but also, of course, that the initiator has not been fit for party. This has been the reason why this bill has not moved forward from the Ministry of Education. Starting teachers is a conscious choice for me, because it is the custom of politicians to bow deeply to children and pretend that children's rights are something different from those of teachers or that is somehow in conflict with them. No, I think that's what this is about. Security and discipline are things of common interest at school. There's no contradiction here. This draft can only achieve a win-win situation, on the one hand it will be won and on the other. Just extreme situations are resolved by ensuring that students are trained and concentrated on what is needed and also secure. But I will begin by quoting my more detailed explanations by quoting the support letter of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers. On this draft, they say this: '[C]ol as an institution must have more rights [than at present] to ensure the safety and well-being of everyone and a pleasant working mood in school. ' I would add that the great independence of teachers and schools, the decision-making power, is something that is considered to be one of the key issues of our good educational outcomes. This means that teachers and schools have very broad opportunities to decide what to do, but amazingly, it is quite the opposite in situations where there is a need to ensure the attention and safety of students. There's no way. I will now continue to quote: 'It would be possible to do so by increasing the authority of the teacher and the school by giving the school additional rights. ' I would point out that this is rather a clarification of rights, because the most important thing is that teachers at the moment do not know what they are allowed to do. There is a lawyer's assessment that the regulation of law enforcement at school is not suitable for this, and that has resulted in a legal vacuum that can and cannot be done at school. It also says that there is a need to increase teachers' and school's ability to respond to possible situations of danger; at present, there is virtually nothing that the school can do to ensure the safety of the teacher or student without involving the law enforcement body, which is unreasonable because it reduces the authority of both the school and the teacher, is time-consuming and not effective, given that situations need to be responded to in the event of a situation, not in the form of hours. One of the fundamental objectives of this draft, which is also the answer to most of the criticisms, is that things must be tackled proactively at school and not with the help of the police afterwards. It must be something that really draws the difference between law enforcement and education regulation. The child's right to safety is also enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Child Protection Act requires that risks to the well-being and development of the child be prevented in order to ensure the rights and well-being of the child. Prevention shall include as early as possible awareness of, and response to, situations and events which endanger the child, including the development and behaviour of the child, the detection of problems and abuse in the growing environment, and the enhancement of protection factors conducive to the well-being and development of the child. Pay attention! The school has a duty to ensure the safety of children at school and the protection of children's health. Now I come to the bill's own text. This draft bans items which may endanger the safety of the child himself or others or which have been adapted for the violation or destruction of property. The draft provides for the right to deposit these items at the school and for security checks in the form of student observation and examination of their items. To this end, the draft provides for a protocol to be drawn up and, where necessary, that the person applying the measure must be of the same sex as the student who has completed the relevant training and who has been authorised by the Director. So not every teacher is going to have this right in the spirit of a great compromise with this draft, which may not actually make sense, but we did not have any other way of reaching agreements. In my opinion, the part of the teacher's qualification is that he can decide what to do in a dangerous situation or in a crisis situation. But all right, well, let's at least have someone like that in school. Direct coercion can be used provided that the student has previously been offered a voluntary assignment of the subject or substance and is proposed to be subject to security controls. Direct coercion can be used for as long as and to the extent necessary to achieve the minimum and unavoidable objective and can be considered proportionate to the danger to be avoided. Where direct coercion is to be exercised, this indication shall also be entered in the minutes fixing the removal of the article. There must be a description of the implementation of direct coercion and a statement that after the immediate coercion has been applied, the reasons for the direct coercion have been explained to the student. If this measure is used, the parent of the minor student shall be informed accordingly. I think I should thank the members of the Committee on Culture for this meaningful debate, where I saw only unanimous support and confirmation that this draft is very much needed. That is why I also mention these names because there has been some misunderstanding with the protocol. I would like to thank Aadu Black, Heljo Pikhof, Toomas Jürgenstein and Toomas Väinaste, who expressed their support for the draft during the debate, and, of course, Viktoria Ladynskaja, Heidy Purgat, Yoko Alender, Maris Laurit and Krista Aru. Why am I doing this? I had to go away before the decision of the committee was taken, and the board of the Riigikogu, the sacred institution, called me, and I read after the minutes that there was some sort of vote, and some of these people voted against this bill without making any argument at the hearing. I would like to thank those who did not vote against, and I hope that this was a typographical error in the protocol. I am, of course, disturbed by the fact that, when it comes to decision-making, the main focus is on the author and his party membership. It was also the case with the government that I received preliminary information that the government did not make a decision or make an assessment, but afterwards, a non-supporting decision was sent afterwards. Maybe it was information noise. But what I said about the Commission was certainly not information noise. Secondly, the Ministry of the Interior is like the judge of this bill. I think that there are completely different cultures of dealing with dangerous situations here, just as the essence of the Education Act and the Law of Law Enforcement is different, which I was talking about at the beginning. We must ensure that things are not solved by the police at school, except in extreme cases. The police can only intervene afterwards and it is still a mental shock for the educational institution as well as for students and teachers and often it will be too late. We should ensure that educational people decide what is happening in an educational establishment proactively, avoiding danger, not reacting afterwards and calling the police. These cases, if the police are needed, are rare, of course, but they shouldn't exist at all. They should be preventable. The training of these people, policemen and teachers is very different. I'd say the kind of thing that a security guard at school is an indication that the teacher's authority is in the background. We probably don't want anyone back to a despotic school, but the balance is out of place enough to put forward this bill and, I hope, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U35	Good waitress, colleagues would like to ask you some specific questions. Let's start with Urve Wing. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U36	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, The desire to achieve a clearer balance of rights and responsibility at school is reasonable and understandable from God. The explanatory memorandum to the draft act is accompanied by a list of articles and substances prohibited at school, which is impressive. There are, of course, tobacco products and alcohol, but also pyrotechnic devices, harpoons, cables, steel balls, swords of wood or other materials, pepper spray, etc. The removal of these pupils or the imposition of coercive measures in order to obtain them requires the professional skills of those working in power structures from school staff. How will this preparation be ensured in all Estonian schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U37	Thank you. These are, of course, drastic examples, but they are examples of life itself. Life itself is also used to take more innocent examples, such as mobile phones, which can actually paralyze the ability to study the whole class, because one interesting distraction is enough for the whole class to lose attention. After all, attention is a fundamental basis for learning. By means of an extraneous object, it is probably easier to attract interest than with mathematics. We have no doubt about the professionalism of teachers in these matters. On the IT issue, studies make teachers feel worse, but we cannot say that they cannot cope with children. However, we can argue that they do not have regulations on situations that would give them the courage to consider different options. This, of course, is not an obligation of any kind. Indeed, as I mentioned, the answer to this question has been written in this draft: these people receive separate training. The conditions for this training will, of course, be laid down by the Minister of Education. These people also need a mandate. They must also be of the same sex as the student, which means that there must still be several people after school. I would not mind accepting the professionalism of a teacher in the sense that all teachers have this right, because the teacher makes more difficult decisions than whether the student can have a sword or smoke. Why, then, should he not be entitled to order, security, and discipline in this matter as well? The training is written in this bill. I'm not sure it's already guaranteed in teacher training, but let him be here. Unless we do otherwise, let's do this text.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U38	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U39	Good manager and waitress! We could think today of the people who accepted the Declaration of Sovereignty in this very hall in 1988. Without them, the ESSR could have continued, so today it would be with gratitude to think of these people. But that's my question. How many more drafts do you have in the Ministry's drawer, and what are you going to come up with now? How do I find this absurd practice, that somewhere in the drawer of a bill will remain and then it will come out later, in Estonia at all, and how could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U40	Thank you. In my report, I tried to point out that practice could be such that the text discussed for years, supported by specific situations, explained in the long explanatory memorandum and agreed in coordination circles, to which there are no substantive objections, could be submitted to Parliament by the government, regardless of the fact that it was initiated by the previous government. The country should be consistent and we usually have a consensus on educational issues. You've estimated that this is an absurd practice. I think it pierced your conscience a little. There have been no substantive arguments against this draft, but it is an argument that the party that made it is not suitable. That's it. You are a great supporter of teachers when it comes to money, but when it comes to the dignity of the teacher and the coincidence of his interests with the student's interests, you call it absurd. The question was also specific: are there any other drafts? Yeah, there's more. At least one more I intend to present, I will wait until it is technically ready, and then I will essentially defend it like today's draft. I hope you don't say it's absurd anymore. This is about the quality of education and the dignity of the Estonian school; that is why I do these things. The reason why I and my group are doing this is not the hope of cutting political professionalism. I'm counting on your support. I received this support from the members of your group, Aadu Black and Toomas Väinaste, for which I have just thanked them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U41	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Very respectable waitress! A secure learning environment and the focus of students' attention on teachers are undoubtedly a very important prerequisite for the quality of education. I think they are not much less important than teacher's salary and teacher's qualifications. In this sense, this bill is excellent. The balance is really out of place. I remember when I went to school and I was late for class one minute or two, I felt bad, my heart was pounding inside, and the reason was not so much fear, but respect for order, discipline and teacher. I am not convinced that this is the case today at school. But you mentioned another disturbing fact about the students' attention, namely the mobile phone. I know countries and schools where mobile phones aren't allowed for students in class. Is there such an opportunity in our society, in our country, and do you consider it reasonable or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U43	Thank you. I've been visiting schools where it's in the rules of procedure. One of them, I remember, was a Waldorf school. I asked the students how it would feel. They said it was okay. Actually, you don't have to be on the phone everywhere, even though we're all used to having someone on the phone all the time. I don't think that's a bad idea. We've grown up without the possibility of a mother or a friend calling us for an hour. It can actually be very paralyzing for a work routine if someone has sounds and a picture all the time. These are things I don't think I need an hour. In itself, such things are recorded in the school's internal rules. The final decision on how these things are going to be is made in the school's internal rules. Here's a little nuance. We have set out to provide e-learning as an alternative and smart devices are already part of the learning process in some ways. Here again, a schoolteacher has a place to consider the circumstances in which phones may be kept or asked to take them with him or to deny them, it may even be necessary to ensure that such a device exists. If it is not a smart device, it is a computer because obtaining information and solving certain tasks visually are in the service of teaching or learning. But yes, the phone can also be very devastating at any adult meeting, let alone students.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U44	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The opinion of the Estonian Student Association on this bill is negative. They believe that the options currently available should be analysed and evaluated and a number of impact assessments carried out. At the same time, you said in the Commission that this attitude was positive in 2016, at your meeting with the board or management of the student representatives of the Union at the time. Would you mind commenting on that a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U46	Yes, thank you! I'm a little too reckless now, but I'm still saying that what's in the text of the student representation is an old-fashioned child story. With the last student representation, I believe, I met in 2015 and asked them what they thought such considerations were. I am convinced that this is essential and in the interests of the students themselves, especially the interests of more advanced students, who are more active and want to learn. I got the head nods, maybe they asked me a question or two, but they were happy. I don't know exactly if they submitted anything in writing, but I think something came in writing too. Anyway, at the time, I was able to communicate directly with them. In my opinion, there must be an apology with the children, a way to communicate with the students in essence and explain things to them. After all, no interest groups have veto rights. I don't think we should get our hands up if there's any interest groups against us. Right now, I think the whole question is explaining. What I called an old-person child story is very common in the text of interest groups: if there is nothing to say, it is said that there is still a need to consider and analyse and that it is done in haste. To be honest, first of all, it's 15 years late, I think. Secondly, however, I would argue that the process of initiating the draft is only a visible part of this process. Certainly more ideas have been exchanged in society or in the relevant circles, not to mention specific schools and situations. For a few years there have been coordination, discussions, there has been a final touch. If that means that the bill is done in haste and without thinking it through, then I can say that this is a polished bureaucrat's old-fashioned baby story. That's too bad! Fortunately, the teachers whose text I quoted here do not think so. Still, I've been told in private to do something. We tried to do more, but these legal obstacles and general freedoms came up. We must not be authority pushers, but rather enablers. Society certainly does not go back to the time when, as one of the questioners called, the heart beats for authority. No, you can't beat anybody's heart. But you have to be ashamed if authority disagrees with you or gives you a bad opinion. It kept us in our time, at least in our school.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, That's right! I fully support both the law and what you said a little while ago about the delay. Thinking back to my previous life, I could say that I had missed such a law in my time. But the question is that it does not concern most students, but concerns some of the individuals who need to be subject to the measures that the law will allow. I see these little places where it's impossible to enforce the law. The question is, this person must be of the same sex as this student, but there is only one such person at school. Often, this teacher, this woman, is sent to the place where she has come from in her own time, is simply turned around and not subjected. [[???J. Ligi: 'Koju saadetakse.'???]] The question is, the power doesn't go too far to correct the student. So what happens now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U48	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U49	Thank you. I think the teachers are verbally sent home often and to worse places, too. But for the most part, only authority can help against this kind of violence. There is no word violence against everyone. It is difficult to decide in specific situations. The teacher must be a professional, and according to this bill, he has also completed a separate training course. I think there could be several teachers of the same sex after school to always have someone to take. In my opinion, this restriction could be removed at all, that there must be a mandate, that could be part of the compulsory training of all teachers. But I will not come up with this proposal, as you can see, simply by preventing objections. I'm sorry, I should still say 'we', because this is not my personal text. But how do you describe it now? Yeah, there are options for consideration. You don't always have to get in the teacher's way. It also says'reasoned doubt', so sometimes he can't interfere. If there is no reasonable doubt, he must not intervene, if that is clearly the case, I believe that this procedure should indeed be put in place. But I'm not a teacher. Sometimes it's safer to land something else and to deny it, maybe call 112 because there's no other safer solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U50	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, First of all, I would like to say that I very much support this draft. I would also like to give an example and, in part, a parallel from the Committee on Social Affairs, because we also introduced the subject of the right of a service provider to search a child or to touch clothes by technical means to see if he has such prohibited things. But we added one point. I came up with the idea that it might be reasonable if the laws relating to the child and the so-called review had said that the child would be controlled by a person of the same sex as the child by a touch and, if necessary, by a person who is not of the same sex as the child, and the child could be checked by a person who is not of the same sex as the child. Maybe you could add that to the laws that concern children.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U52	Thank you. I dare not say yes to that right now, because otherwise this criticism will be ripped up again. There is still a great deal of building up this argument of conflict of interests, which the union of student representatives clearly seems to share or a limited number of its leaders seem to share, that if the rights of the teacher are fixed, the rights would be taken away from the students. No, in fact, it is designed to guarantee students' right to the learning environment and safety. In my opinion, it could be appreciated by people who are more in contact with the social sphere. After all, in regular school, the risks are lower. I wish we could set the rules I put in here!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U53	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I think it is very reasonable to give the teacher such a right, because safety and a pleasant learning environment are in the interest of all students; it is not only the right of those who may come to school with prohibited substances, but also the right of students who want to feel safe at school, that is, everyone's right. Why do I like it? One nuance is maybe it's like a preventive method. If the student knows that the teacher has the right to search him, maybe some things will go unscathed. But schools are very different. There are probably schools where you never have to take such a measure, but there are schools where it is perhaps everyday, unfortunately. It came to mind that it was only recently a case in the College of Education in Marymaa. Did you also consider the possibility that maybe some schools need to have a slightly different set of rules than others?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U55	Thank you. I think that schools such as the Marjamaa College, or their own, should perhaps have more than one, should have a reason to introduce them. I understand that the question of Helmen Hunter and this draft deal with such different schools. Maybe that difference between schools should be written in the law. But a second-sex person as a law-setter does not necessarily, in my opinion, have to be regulated separately, as I said, in different types of schools. This could be a minimum promise for all schools or their right. But I'm not afraid to kiss you here, and they'll find a reason to say no to the whole bill. We need to negotiate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U56	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! As parents, we know that children attend school very much, sometimes more than at home, so the synchronisation of certain educational discipline, and within it, of development and knowledge, is very important. Am I right to understand that the initiators are actually hoping to provide a certain general framework that would encourage schools to use their independence in a number of positive keys, including to ensure the necessary and reasonable discipline in the learning process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U58	Thank you. That's what gives some kind of decision-making frame. It does not impose any obligations on anyone except the obligation to ensure safety and the learning environment. What kind of methods does someone do that is a question of teacher professionalism. I think it could be part of the teacher's general training, but the bill doesn't quite accept it. I am criticising this bill on this point, but it is, as we know, a compromise text. So, yes, these frames are for implementation, for making specific choices in a particular situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U59	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U60	Good manager! Good waitress! I like this bill. Indeed, the teacher must have greater opportunities. But when I asked and you said in your reply that I used the word 'absurd', I meant this practice, that if some sort of draft happened to have come from the opposition, it would be run over. But I'm asking now as a beginner's politician. The Reform Party has been in power for a long time. How many things have there been that you have run over the intelligent drafts of the opposition? With a view to the future, what should be done to ensure that these intelligent drafts, whether they come from the opposition or wherever they come from, can actually be put into practice as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U61	Thank you. I'm sure I'm going to review the verbatim, if I was really wrong, that this "absurd" was about this practice. I heard with my ear, which is certainly weak and deceitful, that you accused the government of presenting a prepared bill on its behalf a year later, because this bill had stopped. I myself started it in the government, in the opposition myself, I stand up for it, and I don't think it's absurd. Indeed, it is absurd that good and sensible drafts are automatically voted down. In my opinion, today was almost the first time in a year when one of the drafts initiated by the opposition went through Jüri Jaanson's. I'd like this bill to be second. You asked me if I hadn't done such things myself. I have deplored such a statement that if there is a opposition bill, it will go automatically. As a minimum, I have called for constructive criticism. As Minister of Finance, I vetoed mostly... You asked about the internships, sorry, I got personal! But the job of the Minister of Finance is largely to veto certain points at all times, or to show that resources are being overexploited or not. I say that this opposition is very different from the opposition that was before, just as this government is very different from the government that was before. We are not putting forward drafts of contention, technically weak drafts, as far as possible, but such drafts as we would have liked to have put forward when we were in government, but which we did not get to sooner or which we did not think of earlier. One of the educational ideas began to germinate at the end of my term of office, but I did not come to realising it. This is the uniting of the Estonian and Russian education systems into one. We came up with this in the context of Tallinn, and I intend to stand up for it. Some things are late, some things don't make sense, but some things you come up with and wonder why others are blocking it. But we have not taken these initiatives because of spite, but because we would have liked to have done them anyway. Perhaps the veto of coalition partners is now away from our opposition, and then it will be easier to do some things. But it is not really the practice of the opposition, as is often the case, that we are putting things in the way of spite and unreal things. I'm saying that the previous opposition did this a lot. Just as the government did sometimes or the coalition: put forward false arguments referring to a coalition treaty or something. Criticism must always be substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U62	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U63	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You have certainly been familiar with the practice of other European countries when preparing this draft. Why don't you introduce Nordic practice, for example, Finland, Sweden, Denmark, Norway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U64	Thank you. I definitely don't have a full list. These examples are given in the explanatory memorandum, and I am not going to follow the explanatory memorandum right now. But the big picture is that we are very much in Finland with this bill. Finland has been our great role model in education, and the starting point here is that almost the wording of the Finnish law has been used and then other things have been written here. The explanatory memorandum also speaks about Germany. In my opinion, the Land of Brandenburg has similar regulation, but one of the weaknesses of the German education system is considered to be fragmented and different practices, which have had a huge negative impact on quality, as assessed. I've been talking to these educational people. There is no generality for the whole of Germany, it is difficult to talk about the German education system in general, but in the middle it is that there is no immediate coercion. At the same time, the example of Britain, which is also written here, I think, once again, allows it. The immediate instrument of coercion and security was the subjects that lawyers loved to chew on. There was a discussion in the Committee on Culture. Here, the terms that one or the other means began to be blamed. It's easy to talk about a search that's not really in here, is it? But since there are similar words in law enforcement, it's kind of a temptation to find an analogy. However, in further processing of this bill, which I hope is possible, we can also reduce these fears. Although, in my opinion, it has been said with sufficient clarity what security controls mean and what is a direct coercion within the meaning of this law. Just here are the words of this other culture. Estonian legalism does not have many legally suitable words to choose from. There might be a feeling that maybe we're still keeping some kind of police action or rights in mind here. No, we don't. If anyone finds wiser words, why not, though it has been shaken so long that those words would probably have been found if they existed. I think that the logic that these words in this law are within the meaning of this law, could be the pride of educational people, should not be afraid that in some other areas they have a different meaning. In legal matters, this is a common dilemma: whether a matter defined in one law must be defined in the same way in another law. It doesn't have to be that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U65	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U66	Thank you so much for the right thing, good waitress. For the last eight years, I worked in the Committee on Culture in Parliament's past and overnight, and then this issue was raised from time to time. When we look at the general picture of society, we see that the problem is getting worse. I have been actively communicating on these issues with my brother, who has been a teacher for the last 15 years, and also in the School Sports Association, where we are in contact with teachers every day, has come up with this issue. Really, it's a serious problem. I would like to see this bill, above all, sound like it aims to protect students and, on the other hand, to protect the dignity of teachers, not so much that someone has to be controlled or punished at some point. This, in my opinion, is, above all, a draft for protecting students. Very much, I think, depends on the teacher himself. There are teachers whose class has no problems, but there are teachers who are soft and who have problems in their class. In my opinion, this begins with the preparation of teachers. You mentioned that once. Maybe you're just thinking out loud, is there anything you can do better in the teacher preparation process, teacher training?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U67	Thank you. I would like it not to be about student rights, as is customary, and, of course, it would not be about what you mentioned, but about what would sound like a match between teachers' and students' interests on this subject. I think there's a hundred percent of the coincidence here, maybe even more, over a hundred, maybe two hundred percent, they overlap. I know little about teacher training, because mine was such a co-training in the Russian era. Right now, I think it should be a direct practical task already in the relevant courses. I can't describe the current situation. I know we have a very high requirement, a master's degree. Why should training for those who have not received training in these situations not be part of this, or, at the very least, further training for those who have not received training on this matter? In my opinion, it could be a universal teacher's skill and only increase the prestige and dignity of this profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U68	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U69	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I am also very sympathetic with the broader and more general aim of this bill to increase the dignity of the teaching profession. This is at least one of them, all of these distant goals are very correct and sympathetic. However, when preparing this draft law, you probably also wondered more broadly whether the legislator could still have an obligation or be able to do something to increase the dignity of the teaching profession and the significance of the school as an institution and extend their rights. Or do you think this bill should adequately improve the current situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U70	Thank you. Of course, I'm a spoiled, old-school man, and I can't impose my thoughts, but I keep asking. This is also the case when I was in other offices or other ministries. Above all, I will ask and I will ask the experts. This explanatory statement is a little central to security. I think the part about this issue of dignity or authority was a little weak in the explanatory memorandum, but the indirect background is that. I've been asking, and I've been asking afterwards, if there's any idea, if there's been any discussion, if anyone hasn't come up with it in the form of an article. The lawyer's answer has still been that it cannot be done. The opinion of those people whom I had great respect for as a colleague was that, and I stuck to it. Maybe that's not possible. In any event, this draft relates indirectly to authority. The atmosphere at school. I wouldn't want to make it sound like the students are really bad at school. I've seen a very human and warm relationship that didn't exist in the old days, especially in high school, already like the warmness of full people. The question is, there will be so many tar drops in this honey pot that there will be a problem. If it gets messy, figuratively speaking, the teacher is relatively helpless, as their community says. Someone here was talking about his brother, it was Lauri, my mother was a teacher, and my sister is a teacher. I've always felt that this profession was under attack. In the rush of freedom, the teacher's freedoms have gone off somewhere. Freedom to decide, freedom to be a professional, to be an authority, and to ensure learning, it's gone somewhere. How do we write this section? I'm looking forward to suggestions, really. I think everybody's waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U71	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, This is certainly the right draft and must be supported. But was such a thing discussed in the Commission? Only student-teacher relationships have been touched today. But the law will also apply to the school's other employees. There are many other employees in the school: coaches, cooks, cleaning attendants, etc. Only the relationship between teachers and students has been touched today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U72	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U73	Thank you. I still wouldn't let a chef get around students to deal with these issues and those other service guys. Let's keep everyone on our grids. As far as the issue of relationships is concerned, raising authority in one area will in itself have a positive effect on the attitude towards adults at all (if you can say 'adults' as a generalisation of the officials you have called). Respect should have survived a little in a generation. It used to be more automatic, now it's more random. I hope that all the debates on this subject will also have an indirect effect on the wider picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U74	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U75	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, Let me put a somewhat more philosophical question. Listening to all this talk, I keep in mind Joseph Toots, the irons of the Tamasser, and Oskar Luts. Where is the reason that students are bringing more and more cold weapons and all sorts of harmful substances to school? Is there a root cause for this, and can it be dealt with? After all, such prankers as Joseph Toots have always been in school, but we don't all consider them Toots anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U76	Thank you. Someone said he was awfully disciplined, but I was a prankster, but I never did big shit. You shouldn't think I was an asshole at school. No, it wasn't. When it comes to bringing things to school, there are more things, there are more freedoms, there are already more things being handed to the student at home, and there is no shortage of things. I can't statistically assess whether more or less things are being brought along right now, but the students have more wealth than mobile phones. They are something that can be devastating, and there must be some way to decide whether or not they need to be in school. Sometimes they do, sometimes I don't think they do. I guess everyone knows things like that and better than me. I don't think I should be here to comment on every area.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U77	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U78	Thank you, President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! With our school arrangements, we are moving increasingly towards inclusive education, which means that there are many children with special needs in the classroom, including children with behavioural and mood disorders. Do you see any connection between the draft that you are presenting now and inclusive education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U79	Thank you. And how! But the question is, I don't know how these things are handled in a particular case. It is a question of teacher professionalism how he can make the choices he has been given in the case of special children. That's what he knows, but these situations, of course, may come up with more. I rather think that special children must also have special delicacy. Life has become more complicated in the sense that there are different special needs: there are also refugees, there are other languages. Classes have become more complex, the treatment of students is more individualised.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U80	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Perhaps the problem also has such a broader background that in the society in which we live, the teacher is like a customer service attendant and the doctor is a customer service attendant, and this customer service provider mentality has also widened to students. I remember that when I was a teacher in high school, the younger female teachers were especially afraid of parents. They feared that if they called the student's order, told him to put the phone away, or took it away, a trampling parent would arrive at the school, figuratively speaking, who would force them against the wall. How should we look at parents? Should schools start signing contracts with parents? After all, the parent is primarily responsible for the minor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U82	Thank you. I wonder how these parental regulations are applied, how to view his artifacts, how to apply direct coercion and security controls. The question is self-evident, after all, the slogan that the client is always the king, i.e. the student is always the king. The special rights of students have also been emphasised in this hall. I am saying that there is no direct relationship between the client and the attendant, but there is cooperation between partners, one of whom must gain authority. The problem of parents is certainly greater than that of teachers, if I may say so, because there are more fools, villains, etc. in society in the middle than there are teachers. These situations certainly exist, and they also need to be resolved on an individual basis. True, the teachers are under pressure, I know. They used to be under pressure. Still, one part of authority is that not everyone should come and tell the teacher how he must teach and how he must raise. The other part is that everyone must be able to communicate with the teacher on this subject, which I think is happening. We have very nice collections of care in schools, and such forms of communication have already been automaticized, so in themselves today, the school is a bit like a self-governing body. There's a way to express your will or your opinion about teachers, but extremes, ugly, yes, shouldn't be part of our lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U83	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U84	Thank you, manager. Good speaker! The representatives of the Ministry who took part in the meeting of the Commission found contradictions and certain shortcomings in the draft. Their support for this draft was not very clear. Can you please explain what is the main reason for their lack of full and comprehensive support?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U85	Thank you. I already tried to touch it. I'd rather have seen the embarrassment than have to say anything at all, it was kind of a gag of hands and mouth. I was in the debate when an official of the Ministry of Education was there. We have a rather catastrophic situation where officials are in Tartu and the minister is mostly in Tallinn. I don't know most of these officials personally, unfortunately, but I think I spoke or we talked to the author of this bill. If he did not fully support his draft, as you said, then this was the result of a political decision which he did not dare to criticise. But the other side is here, of course, what was also mentioned here, the difference between the cultures of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Education. I know that Minister of Education Maris Lauri and Minister of the Interior, Hanno Pevkur, hopefully that the names came up right within the few months of their cooperation in these roles, found some kind of wording that is more or less reflected here. The agreement between the ministries was oral and could not be formalised in writing. The Ministry of the Interior had consent in the form of goodwill, but since this political will, in my opinion, distorted the party's denial, the bill was put to a halt. The need for this did not come out of this debate. But the truth is that an authority trained by law enforcement logic should not be a dictator in school or education system, nor should a dictator in relation to this particular bill, its vetoer or critic. The result of rejecting this draft is that it is the police that take the place of a teacher. It shouldn't be. I'm very surprised that the Ministry of the Interior has such a weak sense of criticism. This must be avoided, not imposed. The result of the launch of this bill is that the telephone number of the police is what the teacher needs to think about in crisis situations. This can, of course, be done mostly afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U86	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, In your statements, you indicated that perhaps this bill is 15 years late. I remember when there was a discussion in the schools about whether the school was still a parenting institution, and when the discussion was held about the first security guards coming to school. Then it seemed like it was two schools. You have been the Minister of Education and Science; you also have personal experience in the pedagogical sense through the pedagogical activities of your close relatives. Does it seem to you, as has the Alliance of Educational Workers in its letter of support, that the notion that education is part of education and that ensuring discipline, understanding and respect for each other are essential for children to succeed in the future has changed a little? Can you estimate that what once happened was just a transitional period?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U88	I guess things change all the time. It is difficult to determine exactly when this transition period was in different areas. Yes, the tendency has gone towards increasing freedoms and blurring rights, I mean blurring teachers' rights. After all, the paragraph must now contain all that was natural in the past, and if the paragraph is inaccuracious, then there may be trouble, because rights fighters can do a lot of harm to the teacher and without justification. This bill is late, but better late than never. I'm not saying there's some kind of disaster at school, but the balance has shifted from optimal. It should be eliminated, not only for security, but also for authority, learning quality and commitment. The interests of teachers and students are, in my opinion, completely coincident here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U89	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U90	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The teaching profession really needs to be valued. This bill supports this appreciation a little bit. The questioner already said that maybe this bill is a little late. But the question is this: are there any other places where you think it is necessary to intervene in the relations that you have at school in legislative terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U91	Thank you. There's a bill that went through here. It's about the directors. This is a different subject and I do not know what this text or regulation will be, but I will probably come up with it. But in relations, of course, the key person is the teacher, no one else, by relationship I mean, of course, relations with students and society in general, parents among others. I have no further ideas to add to this, but the correct point is that this draft somewhat values this profession. Just a little bit!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U92	Maire Aunaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U93	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Mr. Ligi! I have such a funny story to finish up on this subject. I was recently in the Republic of Ghana, where we visited a comprehensive school. There were quite a few Estonians there. A former female prison officer came across such a scene in mathematics class that every student who gave the wrong answer got hit in the head. The Estonians were silent as stockings. How would you have behaved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U94	Hmm... What if I got hit in the head? It happened to me from time to time that I gave the wrong answers, but I couldn't get in the head. There was nothing very wrong with school in the old days. I think most of the wisdom from that time could still apply now. It is widely believed that we live as well in the education system as we live, precisely on the basis of our good traditions. Often, new educational initiatives are brought to mind by the legacy of old and Peter Põllu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U95	Maire Aunaste, please again!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U96	I actually wanted to ask you, if we're in a foreign country, how do we act? Is it appropriate to say how we feel about their behavior, knowing where we have come to ourselves? We must protect the teacher, but it is still as before the October Revolution that the students are completely defenseless. We even told the UNICEF official. He shrugged his shoulders because he lives in Accra, the capital, and he's never been across the country. They are completely powerless, and they also have the involuntary willingness to do or say something. If you'd seen that hitting happen, would you have dared to say something to that teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U97	Thank you. No, I wouldn't fall for that, that's right. But, of course, in another culture, the way of saying always requires consideration. I wouldn't have hit you with a stick, that's clear. But you can also give a very categoric signal in the form of a question or a communication of your experience. So the form is different, but the learning outcomes are also different in Ghana and Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U98	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U99	I'm gonna keep talking about Maire, but on the exact opposite side. In the early 1950's, I asked a teacher who taught me how the school was disciplined in these difficult times. The teacher said yes, there were problems with discipline. I asked you which ones. He said, "Look, Igor, they used to talk in the back. " Please tell me, how do you assess the discipline situation in our schools as a whole today, and does discipline guarantee the student's fundamental right to study?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U100	Thank you. It seems to me that those words belonged to my mother. [[Shout from the hall.]] Yeah, and he wasn't an evil teacher at all. But what about discipline at school now? It's different. It is linked, on the one hand, to a slightly more open communication between the student and the teacher. But once again, knowing something about your mother's career, if you can say so about a teacher, that word is kind of very businessy, then you could still hear ugly and incredible things and literally be known as a sympathetic. Schools are different, students are different, teachers are different. Older teachers sometimes have more authority, but sometimes they are also the weakest in situations where they are under attack because they are not used to such a thing. It is difficult to make a very large generalisation. However, I think that there are very many examples in Western education that the chaos in school, such as the United States, has a measurable impact on learning. Freedom in many schools is quite devastating and many schools in the United States do not receive proper education because freedom is too great. But I haven't been to U.S. schools, I've only heard these stories.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U101	Good waitress! Your colleagues have no further questions for you. Next, we look forward to the speech chair Krista Aru with the presentation of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U102	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! A good introduction to the bill! The Committee on Culture discussed bill No 505 at its meeting on 9 November. The draft law had already been received by the Commission and the Commission had previously requested an opinion on the draft law from the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, whose opinion was received from us on 25 October, the Association of Estonian Students Establishments, whose opinion was received at the end of September, and the Government of the Republic. Indeed, as Jürgen Ligi stated here before, the Commission was initially informed that the Government of the Republic did not give a very clear position on this draft law, but this position was nevertheless received by letter of 19 October. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft law, in particular for the reason that the letter has been drafted by the Minister of Education and Research, Mailis Reps, that a bill of the same nature is currently being prepared at the Ministry of Education and Research, the draft law submitted has not found final coordination with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and new discussions have now been launched. Maris Lauri took part in the Commission meeting, replacing Laine Randjärv, Heidy Purga, Heljo Pikhof, Krista Aru, Toomas Jürgenstein, Toomas Väinaste, Viktoria Ladynskaja and Yoko Alender. Member of the Riigikogu Jürgen Ligi was invited as a draft author and lawyer of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Education and Research Indrek Kilk. Jürgen Ligi introduced the draft law in depth and emphasised in particular these larger and broader objectives, with emphasis on both teacher and school authority and, if necessary, restore this right balance. The aim is not to take away or reduce anyone's rights, but to add more rights and opportunities for teachers and schools to keep the school environment comprehensive and friendly. Indrek Kilk, as a lawyer at the Ministry of Education and Research, Jürgen Ligi, replied that the Ministry of Education and Research was currently coordinating a bill with similar content and that new analyses and discussions were under way, involving the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. The questions followed by the members of the Commission, and their issues were largely the same as those we heard here today. Viktoria Ladynskaya focused on a number of issues about how it is with this touch, when it is right to apply, and whether there is a risk that allowing it would lead a teacher to exceed certain limits of tolerance. In reply, Jürgen Ligi once again touched on the possibilities and the way in which the person who received the relevant training is still able to apply this measure and that the touch is not a search, is used in extreme cases, only when the oral warning or prayer is not responded, and only the person who has completed the special training is allowed to touch. The Commission also discussed in greater detail the possible future course of the draft law currently pending or initiated by the Ministry, when it would come here and when it would be ready. Indrek Kilk of the Ministry was neither able nor likely able to provide very precise answers. We have received a general answer that it is in the debate circle. In particular, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior have issued an opinion. The Commission also discussed further the role that the Ministry of the Interior could play in deciding on the draft law on school and school environment and on the reputation and authority of teachers and how decisive it should be. Indrek Kilk of the Ministry emphasised that the Ministry of the Interior sees the school as a place that is not a public space in the sense of law enforcement law. We also clarified with my question how it was then with the coordination of the Ministry of the Interior that there would be no dual interpretation between 2016 and 2016. We had a great opportunity because both Jürgen Ligi and Maris Lauri, both ministers in the Commission, had worked on the preparation of this draft law. It was clear from both of them that this was not done in a hurry, but that an oral consensus was indeed found, as Jürgen Ligi mentioned here earlier, even with the involvement of the Ministry of the Interior, only this consensus and coordination were not fixed in writing. What other questions were there? Toomas Jürgenstein was interested in the possible consequences of a touch. Jürgen Ligi's answer was very clear and good: rather, this touch is meant not to have to deal with the consequences. The fact that the school should be in order to establish a police force could still occur only in a more extreme case. Thomas Väinaste was very supportive of making the school environment safer and of trying to restore the rights of school teachers as legislators. Maris Lauri, explaining the work he had done during his ministry in preparing this bill, also stressed that in fact the broader assessment of the school as an environment, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior, had been achieved and that the disagreements with this bill were no longer present. Heljo Pikhof asked the Lawyer of the Ministry of Education and Research to clarify when this draft law could still be reached in the Riigikogu, but we did not get an exact answer to that. So the debate was meaningful, very diverse, and generally took place in a positive mood. All the members of the Commission were unambiguously convinced that this problem had to be resolved and that a solution had to be found quickly. We went to the vote. Aadu Must, chairman of the committee, proposed not to stop reading the draft, and Maris Lauri and Krista Aru proposed to stop reading the draft. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act, we started voting. Mr Black first put to the vote to reject the draft proposal he had tabled at first reading. The Commission voted. Aadu Black, Toomas Väinaste, Toomas Jürgenstein and Heljo Pikhof were in favour of rejecting the draft. Heidy Purga, Yoko Alender, Maris Lauri and Krista Aru opposed the rejection of the draft. Viktoria Ladynskaya remained neutral. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Commission did not take a decision. Aadu Black, the chairman of the committee, put to the vote the second proposed proposal to conclude the first reading. The Commission voted. In favour of the first reading of the draft should be completed in the large hall, heidy Purga, Yoko Alender, Krista Aru and Maris Lauri voted. Aadu Black, Toomas Väinaste, Toomas Jürgenstein and Heljo Pikhof voted against it. Viktoria Ladynskaya remained neutral. The Commission did not adopt the decision. According to § 38 (6) of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, if the commission does not support either of the proposals, the first reading is considered closed. The first reading will take place today in a large Chamber without the Commission's closing proposal. The following decisions were consensual: the Commission proposed to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 16 November, i.e. today, and to propose to set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 30 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U103	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions for you. Now the representatives of the political groups have the opportunity to speak. Mr Sults has asked for the floor first on behalf of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U104	Mr. President! Colleagues! An extremely long time ago, a sentence has been said that respect and respect cannot be bought; it must be earned. It's been a long time since they said you know how much they hate you, but you can't imagine how much they respect you. I agree with Mr Ligi, that is precisely what I agree with; it is, of course, funny from my mouth to hear that money is not what increases respect and respect. This reform of education since regaining independence has squandered absolutely every understanding of all things, whether about teachers or about something else. Teachers have developed an idea of a whining company that whines from morning to night, that they have a small salary, a small salary. Everyone keeps praising, be it a newspaper, be it a parliament, be it a council, no matter who: the pay of teachers must be increased! The salary is being raised, but the purchasing power is actually falling. You tell your teachers it's all about raising your salary, actually, real pay is falling all the time. Master doesn't understand. He's either a literary teacher or a history teacher, he doesn't need to know what the cross product is. At the same time, the cross product is a permanent size, Jürgen knows very well that within one equation, the cross product is a permanent size. The worse the level of educators, or teachers, falls, the more it needs to be determined by law. I just can't imagine what the law must be for when class rages, puberty rages. It's a normal thing, things like this happen at school. There's a guy who's been throwing an eraser at somebody's head in the back of his head, another guy who's right on the back of his head, a third guy with a chair, a fourth guy going off, everything's on the table, waving his hands. As Jürgen said, American-style stuff, it's unmanageable. I can't imagine what kind of law would put this thing in place so that a person without authority, without education, would be able to bring this class back to normal. But to correct this class, nothing more is necessary than an accepted teacher, director, head of study or head of study to come to the class, there are two or three minutes in peace, the class calms down, everyone sits in their seats and asks where we left off. That's it! Respect and respect must be earned! It is not a one-day story; it is not a 100-euro story; it is not a 50-euro story; it is a story of time. Our history is so long that the teacher should be a teacher. I mean, kids may need to know who the teacher is. But they know that a teacher is a jerk, and a teacher can be told no matter what. The student goes home and says, "That stupid mathematician asked me for this quadratic equation! Fuck him! " Mom or Dad will say, " Of course, go to the rooster! I don't know anything about this equation, I've been through my whole life, I can do my job very well! What the hell do I have to do with this multiplication table or this quadratic equation? ' The worst thing about it is that the heads of school are talking about Google and don't need to know the multiplication table! If you know how much is 2 by 3, but you don't know how much is 3 by 2, is 50% filled and the grade three received, or? That's the line! The heads of education are politicians. Where the fuck is this going?! The Minister of Education should be an apolitical office at all, and he should be a professional like a public prosecutor. The term of office should last 12 years, one cycle, from 1st grade to 12th grade, then you can ask him what you, old devil, are responsible for and what you screwed up or what you built up. As long as there's no such thing, there's no point in leaning around. I would give Tara that there would be people in the local government who had ever worked at school and knew what was going on at the school. There's, uh, I'm sorry, guys who have come out of school, and who say now I'm turning back on the teacher who screwed me. That's all we're talking about! This is education policy: we will increase the salaries of teachers by EUR 100. Go fuck yourself! Let's give 'em the batons! Are you kidding me? You give the teacher the right to search the HEV student! HEV student hits a teacher's teeth! Do you understand? May I have an extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U105	It's okay if you ask me to! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U106	With the face of the dull cod! I have a million examples, I'm sorry, a million is a little too much, let's take all six from zero and put one back to zero, I have examples if the police are invited to school just because a seventh grade student has punched the teacher in the face. And who's to blame? Not a student, but a teacher, because he couldn't talk to the student! A parent is invited to school, a parent says that the teacher is just stupid. That's all we're talking about! I mean, this cross product is valid. Ladies and gentlemen, we regulate and keep talking about giving the teacher more authority by law. The law doesn't make any kind of authority. The law does not even set the monetary rate; the money rate sets the market: whether money is liquid or not. That's all we're talking about! It can't be done like this. The teacher must have authority, the students must accept him. If the coach is not authoritative, the athlete will not obey him. And the student doesn't obey the teacher either. Once, a Madrid Real coach was asked what was the hardest part of his job. He said, "Wouldn't you try to get these millionaires to run! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U107	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Tarmo Kruusimäe will be speaking.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U108	Good President! Good folklore! The easiest thing would be to say, as usual, that we like the procedure in force. I would remind you that in addition to freedom, teachers, students and parents have responsibilities and responsibilities. Does this law currently restrict and restrict obligations to some extent? Does this law currently restrict and limit liability to some extent? It is possible that we are going to hurrah now to break through an open door and we would very much like to determine which classes of disruptive means students should not take with them. But I do not recall that the Riigikogu has taken the decision that students must not take Tamagotchi to school, specifically Tamagotchi. That was good 17 years ago. Today we may not be talking about MP3 players either. Maybe time will change, and we won't be able to write all those things that can make noise in school class, into law, because there's a new trend. I would like to stress that today is an exceptionally interesting day in Estonia. It's a late Thursday, which means it's like you don't have to work. On the other hand, I have not heard here that today is a rebirthday. I wish you all a happy day of Estonia's rebirth! However, I have been a member of the juvenile commission for 12 years. During this time, I have learned quite a lot and seen how often and how easily the teachers are, instead of complementing themselves and coming out of this problem politely and with dignity, directed these young people immediately, without the involvement of a school psychologist, to the juvenile commission. The juvenile committee is not a repressive body. I want to welcome my good comrade Marek Wheat Ma, whose lessons are so interesting that the students dare not miss his classes, and there will be no action in his classes. There are many teachers, however, who simply do not listen. I'd like to wait on the position of the Ministry of Education and Science. Although I can also tell you, for my part, about those people who should be dealing with troubled young people, the topic of NEETs is extremely popular, i.e. those who are not involved in learning or working, that I managed to take all those specialists who came back to work and started to advise on how minors' committees should work, for the first time in their lives, to the juvenile committee, so that these specialists would also know what to say to all of Estonia's juvenile committees. That's right: God gives the job, gives the authority. May God keep us from these people writing us draft laws, how to do something, and how to do it. I think the initiative is good in the same way, but it is not convincing. One of my acquaintances once said that when taxi drivers start dealing with real estate and liberals restrict student rights, it's a bit of a foul situation. I welcome the schoolgirl, and I think their teachers are good if they can figure out where to behave with dignity. My own children, who go to school, also respect their own school. I've made it clear to them through lifelong learning. I have taken my children on soccer trips and explained how important it is to have a sense of belonging, how important it is to have a school uniform, how important it is to have a football ball or the flag we carry with us. These are our colors. After you've finished school... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U109	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U110	I can do with a shorter time. Maybe it's the company you spend more time with than you do at home with your parents. This is your future entourage you're going through life with. These colors are the ones that stay. If you can't respect the school where you study, you don't respect yourself. So, I guess it's all in the hands of the teachers. But I am still asking whether there are serious shortcomings in today's law that limit compliance with obligations and limit liability. I don't see it right now. However, I will say that I have educated myself on my own personal wallet and went to Poland to get to know special youth work. Our Committee on Culture could take a training trip and see how it is done there. There has been a small step: before becoming an adult and going to a real prison, there is a special project for young people, or pre-trial prison, where the young person can actually improve. As a result, when he turns 18 and goes to the courtroom, he can be released immediately because he has actually improved his behaviour. So I'd be happy to wait for what our Ministry of Education and Research thinks. The initiative itself is good, but writing the law does not change the reality. So, teachers, find this inner calling! You're the authority! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U111	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U112	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! Honourable Tarmo Kruusimägi! Have you still read the bill and the explanatory statement? I am, unfortunately, starting with this, I would not have wanted to do this, but unfortunately I have to start with this, that the text of this bill does not restrict anyone's rights, but it gives the school and the teacher more opportunities. Nothing else. This is the draft law on seeking balance and, in my personal view, it may rather be too diluted during the general debate. But the points you mentioned here in the Riigikogu speech chair, I cannot read out of this. I would like to say to the honourable representatives of the people and also to Mr Sults, who have left, that this draft law, of course, does not deal with authority. The right thing is that authority should come with work, and teachers in general still have it. As with any profession, there are different examples among teachers, but this is the case in our society as a whole. The Group of the Estonian Free Party supports the draft law and says that it is one stage on this road, which has several major, broader objectives. I also said yesterday in the debate on the state budget that what is happening in society is that it is the social idea or the vocation that has borne us so far that the foundation of everything in Estonia is a good education, a school, a schoolmaster who has authority and who is able to raise and teach. We have this happening right now, precisely because we are only talking about money, how we are giving money here and there, that the overall appreciation of education is disappearing. This bill is trying to shift this balance. The fact that the police are setting things right at school can't be a purpose. But right now, it's really like the police are gonna come clean up at school. After all, as a society, we should be able to look at the school itself so that children can be protected at school, feel well and learn well. Of course, the draft law raises questions in several places, including wording, which can be discussed and where the text can be amended. This is a perfectly normal process, and it is part of the work of this hall. What may have amazed me most about this bill, knowing that the Free Party Group supports the draft, is that perhaps more acutely than any previous draft law, I felt how to stand up for the right and good thing, and also the pleasure expressed in words of the overall direction will change into something else when voting begins. Excuse me, but education, children's well-being and the future of education cannot be the playground of the opposition and coalition. This vote by the Committee on Culture, which showed that the Commission was unable to make a decision, should make it very serious to think about the values of society as a whole and the ways forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U113	Maris Lauri, on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U114	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I will start my speech on the same subject as Mr Aru. Very many people have not read this bill. In doing so, it is precisely those things that are dangerous that have been referred to here. This bill does not deal with the command that there must now be authority, because authority does not really arise by law or by order. The bill solves certain problems. I hope that these problems will not actually arise and these situations will not have to be resolved, but we must understand this just as many times today it came out of the questions that, unfortunately, there are young people who do not put into school order anything that receives support from their parents and who, for some reason, maybe the rest of society cannot understand the internal functioning of society, probably because of their own selfishness. But now I come to this bill on the substance side and I will talk about why we submitted this bill. As Minister of Jürgen Ligi, this draft began to be drafted, completed and carried out a coordination round. While I was a minister, I went to settle with the Ministry of the Interior, who didn't give me any coordination. As came out in these questions and answers, we have found a drafting solution, but it has not been written. When I handed over to the new minister, I also spoke about this draft and hoped that this important draft would soon reach the Riigikogu. We've been waiting for this for almost a year, and it seemed like this thing wasn't going any further. That was why this bill was initiated. As the debate in the Committee on Culture has shown, all political parties understand the need for this draft. I'm sure there's a lot of questions. Perhaps this wording is not perfect, perhaps there are other options and perhaps there is an opportunity to clarify the wording. But that is why there is a procedure for processing Riigikogu drafts. We take up, we make amendments, we discuss it again and we refine it so that it becomes better. I think that the desire that I, like my colleague in the Committee on Culture, amazed me that the draft should be rejected was due to the spite caused by the fact that this draft came from the opposition. If such a draft is really being clarified, refined, improved, in the ministry, why has it not been presented so far? Secondly, as I said, the Ministry also has the opportunity to present its views and proposals during the procedure of the draft. If there is a bill, we will have the opportunity to move forward faster than we would if we waited for it to come from the government. So I hope that this bill we will discuss here in the Riigikogu seriously, we will make it good and in the future we will also adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-11-16_U115	The political groups have no further requests to speak. Since the lead committee has not proposed to reject the draft, our only option is to proceed with this draft, which is why the first reading of draft 505 has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 30 November. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in 1988, a declaration of sovereignty was accepted in this Chamber. Let us remember that. And if anyone sees colleague Kalvi Tough in the hallway, wish him luck because it's his birthday. I'll see you here on Monday. In the meantime, force to work in committees and special committees! Have a good day. Closure of the sitting at 12.21 p.m.
