ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Let's start the briefing. Incoming check, please! 50 members of the Riigikogu are currently present at the plenary session. The prime minister Jüri Ratas, Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, and Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, will be in briefing with the members of the government. In view of the requests, I am today giving two additional questions to both the questioner and the whole House.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U2	The first questioner is Andres Herkel and the question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you for coming. We would have liked to have discussed with you on Monday, but then you had long discussions on the budgetary strategy. I understand that these discussions have not yet taken place. But we also understand that you intend to come up with a number of tax changes. You also intend to amend the basic law of the budget in such a way as to allow for budget deficits. My first question is this: with what legislative changes and when will the government come before us? This semester is about to be exhausted for the proper handling of the drafts here. Are you making a clear promise that these drafts will come before us correctly, not as a cluster change as you rushed at the end of last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U4	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good questioner, thank you for your question. I guess I also sensed a little criticism of what a member of the Riigikogu did towards the government in this respect, and I think that is justified. I think it's justified. Guess that's the point of this week's Monday and the questioning. It is true that the Government of the Republic was tensely considering when to discuss the country's budgetary strategy. We wanted to discuss it this time in a slightly different way than in previous years. The point was not to sit until half a night every Thursday or even more at the meeting of the cabinet, but to try to discuss more meaningfully and at a faster pace. I think it worked pretty well. We were at the beautiful Sagadi Manor in Vihula municipality of Lääne-Virumaa, where we discussed the country's budget strategy. We were seriously considering other days, but it turned out that was the only way. In any case, I accept this criticism. You asked when the Government of the Republic would come up with its proposals and whether it would do so correctly. Of course, it's done correctly. You asked if there were any draft cluster laws coming up. I think there should be as little draft cluster laws as possible. Personally, I certainly do not support them. We want to pass on the tax changes resulting from the country's budgetary strategy as quickly as possible, on the one hand, but also, on the other hand, very seriously considered. As you said, they must be properly prepared. I am absolutely sure that the Riigikogu will be able to process them in the spring session in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U5	The first point to be specified. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! I didn't get a very specific answer, but with your permission, I will take it as a promise that there will be no cluster bill and we can deal with tax changes one by one. However, my specific question concerns this missing part of the administrative reform, i.e. the issue of the municipal income base. The Centre Party itself has, in the past, strongly criticised the fact that the legislation accompanying the administrative reform law has not reached us. And they haven't gotten here yet. We'd really like to know how these things are gonna happen. How do you intend to take into account the last audit of the National Audit Office, which says that increasing the income base alone will not solve the problem that local governments are very different from their capacities?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U7	Thank you very much, good questioner, for pointing out this very serious issue! If you will allow me, I will start with the second part of the question where you spoke about the National Audit Office. The Government takes the audit and report of the National Audit Office very seriously. In my opinion, in parallel to this, the Supreme Court ruling, which has been made almost seven years ago, must also be looked at in March 2010. At the time, the Supreme Court stated that a clear distinction should be made between the income base of local governments and the state income base, as well as between the tasks performed by local authorities and the tasks of the state. In this sense, I think that the audit of the National Audit Office and the Supreme Court decision speak one language. You rightly said that the Centre Party has strongly criticised this, that the functions of local governments and central government have not been specifically and precisely distributed. And the desire of the current government to do what has not been done for many or many years is to resolve this issue. In my opinion, the solution has already reached an almost final stage. First of all, in terms of the division of tasks, because it also applies very strongly to the fact that when the rural governments disappear, how the responsibilities are distributed between the municipalities and the central government. Now your question about the revenue base. I think you mean the revenue base model, according to which in 2018, 2019 and 2020 there are really 30 million in the budget each year, which this government coalition has decided to add to the local authorities. In addition, according to a previous government decision, the country's budget strategy will be EUR 15 and EUR 25 million in 2019/20 respectively. I think this particular formula will reach the government office no later than the end of this month.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U8	Andres Herkel, a second point of detail, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U9	Mr President! Prime Minister! I come back to the budgetary strategy and I ask this question: what changes in the priorities of the budget strategy are being made compared to those of the previous government? What is the effect of having an economic forecast going down by 0.1% on today's data? Since we have just had one meeting here, I will ask whether there will be more to the protection of the population, to the security reserves and to broad-based national defence, which is your own responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U10	Thank you. If you ask what has changed, it is certainly a really important economic growth for the current government coalition, which was also highlighted when discussing the country's budgetary strategy on the last two days. All economic measures, fiscal policies must be implemented prudently so that we can see the economic growth that various economic indicators currently show in Estonian society. Our potential is greater than the growth of the economy in recent years. Defence is certainly what we prioritised when discussing the country's budget strategy, as well as health issues and a model of sustainable healthcare funding. Of course, we cannot get over or around education and research and development. This year's GDP growth is known to be projected as a percentage of 2.4 compared to 1.6 in the previous year. I think that we should now come to this gap in GDP, which unfortunately is still negative. And this is a place that the government really wants to change. We know that this year's potential is 2.8%, for example, but we can only do 2.4%. So here, these economic and fiscal policies must be tackled diligently so that our growth figures improve. You also asked about a broad-based area of internal security and defence policy that is subject to the Prime Minister through the State Chancellery. It has also been approved by the Security Committee, which must be resolved by the state, is still a matter of unsolved strategic communication. Point two: additional investment in defence, 60 million in defence policy. Point three: Internal security concerns both regional police officers and high-speed responders.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U11	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! Your Excel-Free Coalition Agreement now seems so bottomless that this cascade of tax rises is like an endless sequence, there is no end that is inevitable on the one hand. It is absolutely amazing to hear from the members of your government, however, that in the future the opportunity to balance the budget will have to be achieved and the greatest benefit will come from the current government. How have you ever been able to convince the current Minister for Finance, who represents the IRL and who has been prepared to draw the budget balance into the Constitution? Doesn't it seem a little unfair to you to let the budget out of balance with the interests of the Estonian state and to use it only in the interests of the current coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U13	Thank you for this question. I'll start with the tax increases you mentioned. Tax increases are the ones that were very seriously discussed during the coalition agreement. And not only the representatives of the economic and business sectors that have been discussed, but also those that have been heard. Let me just give you a few examples here. Take, for example, the increase in VAT for accommodation establishments. True, this was decided not by the current government, but by the previous government. It was supposed to rise from 9% to 14%. The input of the representatives of the accommodation establishments was such that it will certainly have a negative impact on the Estonian tourism sector and reduce the arrival of tourists here, which is why the new coalition did not consider this increase to be right. We'll continue at 9%. Another thing that the previous government had also signed up for was the increase in excise duty on diesel from the beginning of the next year, 2018. This concerns the Estonian economic environment very widely and was also seriously under discussion. The current coalition said no, we do not agree with the increase in excise duty on diesel, which had been agreed by the previous government. If you are asking about budgetary balance, I think there are three main keywords. The balance of the budget will certainly not change; the balance of the budget is not only important to the IRL. But I can assure you that the IRL will also stand for this in the current government. The second keyword is that the budget needs to be made more flexible. And the third keyword is the same GDP gap, which is negative. This is the best indicator of the economy, for which national specialists say it needs to be changed. This is how we want to become more flexible in the budgetary strategy in order to stimulate the economy and increase economic growth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U14	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U15	Thank you. If we look at the view published today by the Ministry of Finance on the budgetary policy of your government, we can conclude that you really want to make a very strong and very clear change in the fiscal policy that has brought Estonia a great deal of success and to have a large budget deficit. To this extent, even after six new taxes that you intend to introduce, the deficit of the central government is greater than was at the height of the economic crisis in 2009. If this is a balance, then our perceptions of the budgetary balance are still very, very different. As I see, in just a few years, your government plans to spend nearly one third of the national reserves of Estonia, i.e. the cost of defence for a year and a half. How do you justify us now living at the expense of the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U16	Thank you. I repeat, the government union has the following words in the so-called 'wood' and'red' coalition agreement: 'We keep the state budget in structural balance as an average. ' That is certainly not what we are changing; it is the common desire and interest of all coalition partners. That's point 1. Point 2. You are asking what will be done in the state budget over the next few years through the state budget strategy to really overcome this gap in GDP, from this negative situation. What are we gonna do? For example, in 2018, the country will have the largest investment volume of around 1.4 billion. Very many economic specialists, as well as honourable Eesti Pank, have said that we actually have a problem with investments now. If you are talking about this rate of 0.5%, this order of magnitude is approximately 110.115 million, and exactly this 110.115 million, today's coalition wants to put it into strategic investment. Let it be said that no cent of what the coalition wants to borrow will go to cover fixed costs or running costs. We are only talking about strategic, very important investments that would improve the Estonian economic environment, which would ensure a better living environment for the people of Estonia, whether they are better and safer roads, faster rail connections, whether they are investments in the field of information technology, so that people can also get faster internet connections in scattered areas, or whether it is an international conference centre of symbolic importance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U17	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U18	The next question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Kristen Michal. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U19	Thank you, Chairman. Good Prime Minister! The last time we met at a big event on Friday was in a patriotic spirit, and that's why I'm asking you a little bit more friendly than usual. Last week it turned out that the King of Tallinn's propaganda apparatus, or Tallinn TV, has been able to help Russia's well-funded reality change apparatus in the meantime. It has already been achieved on Tallinn TV that life in Crimea is better than in Estonia. The host has been interested in why Estonia is not as enthusiastic about this. In addition, it was found jointly that Yana Toom was reminded that, in the meantime, she called the Estonian Foreign Minister a fool as an excellent example, because she goes to visit Syria, probably in Assad. Moreover, it is also time for Estonian politicians to go to Crimea. Good Prime Minister, this is a matter of a culture of governance. It is not compatible with a European culture of governance that the party of the Prime Minister does propaganda in this way. In addition, you are the leader of national defence in Estonia. We both know that we need central TV just as much as a drowning Sangbomb.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U20	Question, please! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U21	You will have the opportunity to tell me if you are disgusted by what comes from Tallinn TV and when this channel will be closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U22	Thank you, honourable Member of the Riigikogu, for this question, which you have asked in very essence within a minute and ten seconds. First of all, congratulations to you on this important course! There was a really nice meeting last Friday, and I think it's good to move on from here. I didn't see anything malicious about it. As you said, these are very substantive, analysed questions that you are asking. After all, you know very well, having been the senior manager of one of the important parts of Tallinn, or of the district of Tallinn, and published in the newspaper of the district of Tallinn the information that your district is currently doing, that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia is not, for example, the editor-in-chief of the messages of Central City or the manager of Tallinn Television, is not the chief editor of any newspaper either. However, I do think that the concern that you are already expressing here in several briefings and also in enquiries is correct. This concern is, in fact, that Tallinn's living environment would be better for the residents of Tallinn as well as for visitors of Tallinn. All the more so, this discussion must be held before the local elections. I don't know how right it is to do this in this briefing, but it's up to you. But if you raise these questions, what should be said about Tallinn in the context of the elections? I think it is important to talk about whether the residents of Tallinn are satisfied here or not, whether or not there is an increase in the population in Tallinn. Let me give you an example. I'm taking completely arbitrary dates, for example on 1 April 2005, by the way, then my party in Tallinn was not in Tallinn under the authority of the number of residents of Tallinn in the order of 401821. If we compare it as of 1 April 2017, when this figure was 444591, the increase will be more than 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U23	Kristen Michal, first question to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U24	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, let's continue on the same subject. On the abuse of Tallinn TV as a taxpayer's wallet by the Centre Party, the opposition has expressed a strong opinion in this hall and elsewhere, as well as Eesti Päevaleht, Postimees, Delfi and all the other channels, unfortunately, to deaf ears. At the same time, I read how the last leader of Tallinn TV hopefully speaks proudly in Eesti Ekspress that there was a show where there was no middle party. Last week, in my opinion, the new threshold of pain was exceeded and it was done not from inside Estonia, but from Finland by our good tribal brothers. The Finnish Ambassador asks why, under the leadership of the Centre Party, there are broadcasts for taxpayers' money, where, among other things, Estonia's occupation is denied. George, you're the Prime Minister because you're the leader of the Central Party, and the leader is responsible. Are you able to tell your Tallinn disciples that the occupation was a real suffering, not a myth? When will the embarrassing Tallinn Television channel for Estonia and Finland be closed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U25	Thank you. I agree that the driver is responsible, and I fully share this view, one hundred percent. I also share the principle that local governments are autonomous in Estonia. Next, when you referred here to newspapers and this television, I say for sure that no municipal newspaper or, I don't know, television or any publication of any kind can be abused by any party. It can't be! You also spoke, and rightly so, about the embarrassing story where the Ambassador of the Republic of Finland in Estonia had to react. It's embarrassing. But as far as I know, the Tallinn Television has also finished showing this programme or this program further. You said you wanted to continue conversations about Tallinn. If that is the wish of a member of the Riigikogu, I will certainly continue to discuss these issues. You asked when one or the other thing in Tallinn would be closed. This is the decision of the City Council, in fact it is even the decision of the residents of Tallinn. And if you want to change the management of the city of Tallinn, this decision can be made by the next city council, which will be elected in the middle of October this year. However, I would suggest that if you are coming to the elections in Tallinn, it is not my right to say whether you or Hanno Pevkur or who exactly is, keep the focus on public transport so that it is faster, more frequent and that public transport will continue to be free of charge. I recommend keeping the focus on the international dimension as well. Tallinn is running for green capital in 2019, with 12 classifications of green parks, water quality, noise levels, etc. Today, Tallinn has reached the final finals of five European cities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U26	Kristen Michal, a second point of detail, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U27	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for these suggestions. I will then ask more about the culture of governance and the choice of direction. I spent two years in the government minefield, as reported in the press, doing the work of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. This time included the founding of Nordica, the barges, the expansion of Tallinn's Tartu highway, the intersection of Haabersti and Russalka and many of the things already mentioned here. One idea was to simplify business and cut red tape, and Taavi Kotka, Keit Kasemets and many others we got it started. It was called zero bureaucracy. We were actually quite tough to break the bureaucracy of MKM as well. Now I'm going to open the paper and read that in the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, there is a need for an additional deputy secretary, a high-ranking official. Good Prime Minister, what is the reason for this position? If MKM had done things before, can you justify it in such a way that the real reason doesn't seem to be why this new job needs to be created?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U28	Thank you for this question. Since it is a good practice for us to cultivate and improve political culture here, I say we are talking about ferry ships. You said the ferry, but you meant the ferry. Ferry traffic, Nordica, zero bureaucracy, all are commendable things. All the praiseworthy things you did, and certainly these good things were prepared before you. The current government will continue to do so. There is nothing to do, even emotionally it is really nice to sit in Nordica and drive home to the home of Tallinn Airport. The same thing is the ferry you mentioned. I think the giants and the islanders will enjoy the new ferry. The final phase is always important, and I think that Kadri Samson and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications have resolved this issue very well. It's practically traffic now, isn't it? In a few weeks there will be a better ferry connection between Hiiumaa and Saaremaa, Sõru So these are all the correct observations you mentioned. Zero bureaucracy. I cannot name any political groups here in the Riigikogu who would oppose cutting red tape. I'm sure it's not the Centre Party. Now that you're talking about the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, you know very well that at the time, one of the Vice Chancellors had two areas, energy and construction together. Now we have decided that there will be a geology service under one of the Deputy Chancellors, and we really want to bring out one of the important sectors of the Estonian economy and Estonian life, which is construction, even stronger. That's the main reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U29	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! In answering my question above, you said that you are taking the National Audit Office very seriously. The National Audit Office has carried out one audit on how local governments use advertising and communication money for the purpose of elections. This was done after the previous municipal elections. This particularly affected Tallinn, partly Tartu and other cities. In order not to say that what is happening in Tallinn does not directly concern you, I ask you this. What are you doing as Prime Minister, for example, in the context of administrative reform, so that local governments do not abuse public money in the way that the Centre Party has repeatedly and very blatantly done it in Tallinn in the past?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U31	Thank you. What am I doing? The easiest thing I can do is very clearly and unambiguously condemn any such exploitation of municipal newspapers or other media publications for the benefit of one party. It certainly can't be. Those matters that it deals with still have to, I would say, inform the people of this municipality or city. There must be adequate information about what is happening in the municipality. I guess that makes them necessary. You ask about informing the National Audit Office and the residents whether or not this municipal newspaper is needed. Well, that's kind of a subjective assessment. If we try to go to a slightly wider, more objective level, then, as far as I know, a serious assessment and analysis was commissioned in autumn 2016 from Facetum & Ariko, a company for social and market research. The aim was to get an overview of how the residents of Tallinn are satisfied with the city's public services, how they value them. Definitely important feedback. The results and facts speak for themselves. With Tallinn as a living environment, the same living environment, which Mr Michal wants to improve and develop through our debate, is very pleased or rather satisfied with 95%. That's a little less, I'm sorry! In the event of the election of the last Chairperson of the Board of Directors of EKRE. Congratulations to you here! So, the satisfaction is 95%. 93% of the population are satisfied with their district. And the interesting thing is, this trend is growing year by year. For example, in 2006, satisfaction was 69%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U32	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U33	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! My question concerns the culture of governance and compliance with promises within the coalition. In the Special Committee on State Reform, we have constantly asked when the Riigikogu will receive drafts concerning the income base and tasks of local government and the reform of rural governments. On the days of towns and rural municipalities, members of the coalition, such as Kiisler, Padar and Sarapuu, have said very clearly that the agreements will be reached in April and will also be handed over to the Riigikogu in April. The last meeting of the special committee said that on 17 April the legislative package on the reform of rural governments would be handed over. In April the Riigikogu will be sittings this week and next week. You could have done things at the beginning of this week, for example, during a week without sitting, when the MPs would have been free to work in their area and do your own estates. Who is lying, are the coalition ambassadors in the Riigikogu? When will these drafts still be here? Will they be here in April?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U34	Thank you. I dare not say that someone is lying, not about the opposition or about the coalition. I think everyone's working for it and hurting the heart about what this important new revenue base model is gonna be like. What was done in 2009 was unfair, but then there was really a recession and an economic crisis, and then it was necessary to make these cuts back then. Unfortunately, we have not yet overcome this negative gap in GDP. The year 2017 is now, and so far the request of the local government associations has not been responded to, I mean, both the union of cities and the association of rural municipalities, if they have wished to see the revenue base taken away restored. I think it is also good that the previous government coalition provided additional resources of between 15 and 25 million for 2018 and 2019 in the country's budgetary strategy. You also asked about the reform of rural governments. The meeting of the Cabinet has taken a fundamental view and a decision that it will be conducted in a calm manner, analysed by the end of this year. Once the municipalities have joined, there will be 2.5 months left to help and support the municipalities, and as of 1 January 2018 the rural governments will disappear. If you ask about the time perspective, it has really been the idea that, according to the timetable, in April the Government of the Republic could decide on the county governments and the revenue base. There will be serious consultations in the cabinet on this matter. I believe that, at the moment, the Minister for Public Administration is keeping to this schedule.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U35	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U36	The next question is for Kadri Samson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U37	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! On 31 March, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications prepared a single-phrase bill for the ratification of the Rail Baltic Treaty. It happened to be on the same day that the National Audit Office announced that by May it would prepare an independent review of the previous decisions and contractual obligations relating to Rail Baltic. Moreover, on 3 April, an explanatory memorandum to the draft ratification law was prepared, which refers to an erroneous AECOM study with justification. There are no references to a new cost-benefit analysis. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications sent the draft to the coordination circle. Here's the question. Why was it decided, under your direction, to send the draft together with the explanatory memorandum to the coordination circle if the results of the new feasibility study have not yet been received and it will be about a month before the independent National Audit Office carries out its analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U38	Thank you, Mr Madison, for your question. I say first of all that the Government of the Republic decided to send the international agreement signed by the Prime Ministers of the three Baltic States to the Riigikogu for ratification only after another feasibility study was completed. Its results will be published in Riga on 24 April. If we wanted to move forward at the usual pace, we could have sent it to the Riigikogu immediately after 31 January when the Prime Ministers signed the agreement. Looking at your usual pace of work, it would have been ratified already in March. But we found that we were going to take our next step, we would only submit the draft to the Riigikogu after the completion of another feasibility study. We didn't have that obligation, but we thought it was appropriate. I would like to reiterate here that, unfortunately, the approach that you have put forward was misleading. The international agreement signed by the three prime ministers was already in the interministerial round of coordination in January. What we now sent to the coordination circle was a sentence. This one sentence reads as follows: 'Ratification of the Rail Baltic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, signed in Tallinn on 31 January 2017. ' Let us acknowledge that ministries can also take 15 days to coordinate this sentence in 15 days if necessary, as the agreement reached the interministerial round of coordination already in January. We will present it to the Riigikogu at the end of April, and I already have an agreement with the Chairman of the Economic Affairs Committee that it should be taken into account as soon as possible that the Riigikogu will then have a free week of sitting once again, the results of the feasibility study will also be presented to the Economic Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U39	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U40	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I still remember very clearly how critical you, as a member of the Riigikogu, were in this Chamber about AECOM's studies, which are more than suspicious and do not rely on serious facts. Nevertheless, the explanatory memorandum to the draft on 3 April refers only to AECOM's studies and cost-benefit analysis. However, for what reason are you now presenting the studies of AECOM both in the coordination circle and in the Riigikogu as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U41	Since the agreement between the three Prime Ministers contains all the previous agreements and, as we know so far, the latest feasibility study, which is the 2011 AECOM study, it is also based on it. It says this: a European railway with standard width, where the speed in passenger train traffic is 240 kilometres per hour and 120 kilometres per hour in freight traffic, it makes the most sense to build Rapla-Pärnu on the route in Estonia. The following study has improved the project in some respects and includes objects that were not yet included in the AECOM study. In particular, these sites are located not in Estonia, but in Latvia and Lithuania. If you have a few here, there is an airport connection for Riga and there is also the Kaunas-Vilnius route. So the new study, which will be completed in the spring of this year, simply improves the feasibility study carried out so far, but does not disprove the choice of route.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U42	Jaak Madison, the second question to be specified, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U43	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You mentioned that this bill will come to the Riigikogu with an explanatory memorandum at the end of April, but the National Audit Office will only complete its independent analysis in May. Why does the Riigikogu have to deal with the draft ratification of the Rail Baltic Treaty before we have obtained the results of our analysis by the National Audit Office?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U44	As far as I know, this is the date the Government of the Republic has decided to send an international treaty to the Riigikogu for ratification at the end of April. We have agreed with the Chair of the Economic Commission that the first debate will take place in the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu on 2 May. This is due to the fact that in the last week of April, when the new study is introduced in Riga, the Riigikogu will have a session-free week and 1 May will be known as a free day. This is why the Committee on Economic Affairs is discussing ratification for the first time on 2 May. After that, there will be discussions in the big Chamber, because the international agreement needs two readings. I have reason to assume that by then the National Audit Office has also carried out its own research.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U45	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U46	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I remember one of our conversations when the government had changed, and I asked you as a fresh minister what would happen to Rail Baltic. Then you said that Rail Baltic is not needed by anyone but the Reform Party. Turns out it probably is. I also remember that, as a member of the Riigikogu, you used to criticize Juhan Parts very strongly for sending things to the government as always urgent, whether it be Rail Baltic, Estonian Air or other matters. Is there something going on in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications that all the ministers who go there are going to be quick to want government coordination?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U47	Thank you, Mr Helme. If I try to remember this conversation that Rail Baltic has the sign of the Reform Party, there really is no political party in the government at the moment trying to squeeze water out of stone. We are reasonable about this choice and we have agreed that the development of Rail Baltic between the three Baltic States will not be made at the expense of local rail connections. We must have sufficient resources in the state budget to develop rail transport on the current gauge, which allows passenger transport towards Tartu, Narva and Pärnu. Now for the rush. As I mentioned to you, the international agreement between the three Baltic Prime Ministers was signed on 31 January. If we really had rushed, the government would normally have decided to send it to the Riigikogu for ratification, saying that the feasibility study to be published at the end of April, 24 April, does not matter, because the international agreement repeats all the agreements that have already been made on behalf of the Estonian state. On the contrary, in order to prevent any further questions from the Riigikogu regarding new pieces of information, we took a time-out. The fact that the Government of the Republic is expected to decide not until the last session of April to send this Treaty to the Riigikogu for ratification is a very moderate choice of pace. Like us, Lithuania has chosen the same pace. In the Riigikogu, as in any international agreement, it is possible to hold a debate and, at the end of second reading, an international agreement is either ratified or not. This has been the case with other international agreements. Surely this is not a matter of haste. This is a long-term project, which we can talk about in the next nine years until the route becomes possible. Any discussion and criticism is absolutely necessary in such a large process. So thank you for your critical help.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U48	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The answer was long. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U49	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! We participated with you last night in a television show on the subject of budgetary balance and, among other things, structural balance. The structural balance, as is known, does not include certain high one-off costs. How will the spending on Rail Baltic be addressed, whether or not they enter the structural balance of the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U50	Thank you! In the case of Rail Baltic, it is known that the total cost of the Estonian route will be 1.3 billion, of which 250 million is Estonia's own financing. It is appropriate to say that so far expenditure has been very low. By the end of last year, there were 2.8 million expenditures. This year, our own budget is EUR 46 million, in particular for the tram line at the airport, the planning of Muuga multimodal terminal, also for archaeological research and further design of the route, including the design of the Ülemiste and Pärnu passenger terminal. And those expenditures that come from our own budget are also included in the balance of our budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U52	The next questioner is Krista Aru, answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U53	Mr President! Prime Minister! A meeting of the Scientific and Development Council was held on 22 March. One of the decisions of the Council was that the state's support for research and development should be maintained at a minimum level of 2017, which is around 0.83% until 2021. Does this decision mean that the R &amp; D Council I conclude that the government has made corrections in the current strategy 'Knowledge-based Estonia' and also in the competitiveness plan 'Estonia 2020'?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U54	Thank you for this question. I think that the percentage with which it is right to operate is actually 0.75, just as it is this year. Indeed, different percentages have gone through, and the TAN meeting in March was one of the topics of what is the correct percentage. Point one. Point two is whether there has been a change of purpose to reach 1%. Definitely hasn't changed. It certainly hasn't changed! I think you said that if you raise today's level to 1%, it's about 50 million euros, a little more. Of course, this is a very serious budget line, I do not want to say that spending line, because I think that R &amp; D will always bring more back in the future. Indeed, the decision of the Scientific and Development Council was that it should not fall below the current level. That's why the word 'at least' is there. But the goal has not changed. You asked if anything else had changed. I think it has changed that, on the one hand, it is always important how much the public sector puts into R &amp; D. In fact, it is equally important that the public sector must contribute, support, subsidise the private sector in all respects. The input given to the government at this very meeting of the Scientific and Development Council was to seriously consider joining the European Nuclear Research Centre. This proposal was approved at the Council meeting and was one of the inputs in the preparation of the country's budgetary strategy. I cannot say at the moment that the country's budgetary strategy has been decided to the end because the discussions are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U55	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! I will return to the fact that the Scientific and Development Council will say in its decision that it must be maintained at 0,75%. In earlier times, we have clearly observed that at least 1% of GDP is achievable. Why has it now been corrected so that it does not fall below the level of 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U57	Thank you. Once again, no, the objective has not been changed. After all, we also have the objective stated in the Estonian R &amp; D &amp; I strategy 2014 just as 2020 'Knowledge-based Estonia', which provides that R &amp; D funding from the state and local budget will be increased to 1% of GDP by 2015 and will be kept at this level in the future. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the current state budget laws, as well as the current state budget strategy, have not been in line with this objective. The actual volume of funding is below the target set in the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy. And as I said in the previous response, we are currently about 50 million short of this level. This decision was now made in order to be sure that this is also the wish of the current government coalition that R &amp; D funding cannot fall below the level in 2017. This is the minimum confidence to give, and also the input to the government coalition, the input to the Riigikogu so that it cannot go below this level. The target remains the same 1% in the public sector. But coming back to CERN for a moment, then joining CERN, which, according to the country's budgetary strategy, should take place once and for all in 2019, will certainly provide the framework that the state must create for the private sector: the opportunity to participate in high-tech procurement and send our engineers there, to gain better knowledge. That's definitely what the government's guaranteeing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U58	Krista Aru, please, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In all important strategy papers, including the Government Union Agreement, it is very clear that more private capital needs to be involved in R &amp; D and that the Government Union will develop further incentives to do so. Are they real and what they are? When do they work? With the current funding of R &amp; D, Estonia will lose all the advantages it has gained from its earlier work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U60	Thank you. Certainly, these advantages must not be lost and there must be more growing ground. Therefore, the Scientific and Development Council also decided to join CERN, which was discussed in the last TAN. I know that this was also discussed during the preparation of the country's budget strategy between the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of Finance. I believe that the country's budget strategy will reflect Estonia's contribution to the European Nuclear Research Centre (European Nuclear Research Centre) as well as in the coming years. As I answered your previous question, it will certainly give our companies the opportunity to participate in these procurements, which are very high and research-intensive. This will provide better preparation and more knowledge for our engineers. I am convinced that procurement through CERN will improve the transfer of technology and knowledge to the Estonian economy. So this is one very real step that the current government has taken to increase the share of the private sector in R &amp; D. The other side, which I do not think is best organised at the moment and which could and should be better organised, is the way in which they report their R &amp; D investments and their results. I think that the share of the private sector in Estonia is more than we see in statistics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U61	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U62	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! In fact, it is sad to hear that the government does not even plan to increase R &amp; D money, despite the fact that the sugar tax is intended to add a great many millions to the budget. Aren't you worried about the fact that a country university's veterinary education, which desperately needs hundreds of thousands more, could lose its international accreditation? Have you invited the Minister of Education and Research, as well as the Minister of Rural Affairs, to your office to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U63	Thank you. You've got it all wrong. I'll go over it then. On the contrary, firstly, the government has not abandoned one ounce of its target of 1% of GDP of public R &amp; D funding. Secondly, at the level of the government office and coalition, we have made an analysis of the decision given to us by the Research and Development Council, or TAN, that joining CERN will increase the potential and capacity of the Estonian private sector to contribute more to research and development, to gain more knowledge. Coming to veterinary training, yes, this topic was on our table when we were at Sagadi Nature School and discussed the country's budget strategy. The Minister of Rural Affairs will certainly stand for this education. As I said, the country's budgetary strategy has not yet been fully agreed, discussions are still under way. As regards the issue of funding, I would also like to mention that it is important to contribute more to the government coalition in other areas that are directly related to R &amp; D. What do I mean by that? I am thinking, for example, of doctoral studies, doctoral scholarships. The government has also said in its coalition agreement that we want to provide additional funding for this, and this additional funding will certainly come. For R &amp; D, it is also very important to support teachers. Supporting teachers, teachers' salary increases are still in the budget. Making science more attractive for more young people to come, and professional and learning levels would rise to all of this the government plans to do and keep the focus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U64	Thank you. The Prime Minister has spoken warmly, the answers are getting longer, and it is difficult for me to finish them. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U65	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! However, when you were together at the Sagadi Nature School, why did you prefer various infrastructure sites or the renovation of the City Hall to this option in order to channel more resources into R &amp; D? I understand that there are choices before you, but you are always talking about boosting growth. The new economy in the world is developing at an impressive pace. If we don't run along very quickly, we'll be behind. Freeze is actually going back. I do not understand why your preferences do not include research and development, compared to any other option you choose to borrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U66	First of all, thank you very much. No, it certainly cannot be said that R &amp; D does not have such a weight or proportion that we are somehow opposed to R &amp; D, as you said, the City Hall or other infrastructure objects. It's not like that. On the contrary, I know that the Ministry of Education and Research, for example, has specifically requested additional resources for R &amp; D for next year's state budget. And as I said, there was no final discussion of the RES at the Sagadi School of Nature, and that was not an end in itself. The aim was to have a serious debate and we have moved quite strongly towards agreeing on a country's budgetary strategy in the near future. We know that by the end of April there must be a budgetary strategy in place. So, no, I wouldn't contrast these things. On the contrary, we are trying to find additional resources for research and development so that the level does not fall. It must also be said that the government is currently discussing this country's budgetary strategy, which the previous government has approved. And if we come back to your benchmate's question for a moment, there is a real situation at the moment that R &amp; D funding will decrease if we stick to this budget strategy. We do not want this funding to fall. The Scientific and Development Council provided the government with a very strong input that it should not be reduced. As regards the infrastructure sites you mentioned, whether it is Via Baltica, whether it is rail traffic or an international conference centre, I think they will definitely boost the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U67	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U68	Jürgen Ligi's question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U69	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Mr Hansson has called your monetary policy self-serving and detrimental to the growth potential of the economy. That's what you might call a robbery. You have taken the reserves collected by the previous government and the structural surplus buffer. You are taking six new taxes from the taxpayer and raising the current ones and forcing the next government to make cuts. Tell me, is that what you want to do with history, or do you have another dream?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U70	Thank you, good questioner. I repeat over what I said earlier when Mr Herkel asked his question about the budget. There is one very clear common position, which is that the government coalition maintains a structural balance as an average for the state budget. This is certainly what we follow and where we do not give in. When you talk about what the current government has taken over, it is true that we must face up to the negativeness of the GDP gap that has been in recent years. The GDP gap has always been negative. This means that we are not actually able to exploit our economic potential. It is clear that measures such as those that have been in recent years cannot go ahead. Our wish is, firstly, that the GDP gap must narrow, that negativity must disappear. Secondly, serious investments must be made to this end. As I said earlier, next year, the country plans to make the largest investments ever made, amounting to approximately EUR 1.8 billion. We really want to make certain differences in the economy in order to boost the economy, for example, in the maritime sector. You have outlined tax policy. On the contrary, we have lost many of the tax increases that would have been in some business sectors, I would say, inhibit or threaten, for example, the increase in VAT on accommodation establishments and the increase in excise duty on diesel next year, which the previous government planned. So today's government stands very firmly for the economic environment to improve and recover.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U71	It's 2:00.56. Question Time is over. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, members of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U72	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. If anyone has a desire to hand over any drafts or inquiries, please give a signal by speech. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U73	Good chairman of the sitting! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the members of the Reform Party Group, I will report an inquiry to the Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Ivala. This concerns problems or, rightly, the crisis in social security, where the money for rehabilitation has run out in a few weeks. In such a situation, many people have lost support and opportunity to improve their health, i.e. their health is actually starting to deteriorate. The Minister has given answers to various situations in the press, but we do not believe that these answers are sufficient or adequate. The references that we take from one place or another and we can see that maybe there's something out there that's not satisfactory, because there's no specificity. We also point out that European Union funds cannot be used for fixed expenditure. We therefore want to know why the budgetary planning did not take account of last year's experience and the real need. Where, then, will these additional resources be found, and will they even be found? When will they be made available? What are the costs planned for next year and where will they be covered? We also ask who is responsible for all this and how such a failure could have occurred in the first place. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U74	Honourable Riigikogu, please keep it down! Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U75	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Seven members of the Reform Party will submit an inquiry to Minister of Defence Margus Tsahkna. This concerns the European Centre of Excellence for Hybrid Threats just established in Helsinki. The Treaty was signed this week and the founders are Finland, Sweden, Great Britain, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, France, Germany and the United States. Everyone is close friends and natural allies. It is extremely remarkable that Estonia is not on this list. Hybrid threats are what we are constantly talking about in defending our security and what we emphasise. Finland has now decided to join a group of NATO countries. It is in our interest to involve Finland and Sweden in NATO to the greatest extent possible. So our question is why Estonia did not join the European Hybrid Threat Centre established in Finland. How does this passivity fit in with the strong security policy and initiative announced by the government? We also ask to comment on the statement that this exclusion of Estonia will inevitably place us in a group with those Eastern European countries that do not necessarily share our understanding of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U76	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U77	Honourable Riigikogu! Today 100 years ago, an Estonian woman received the right to vote. This happened as a result of the February Revolution in Russia, but it was preceded by a demonstration in St Petersburg with 40,000 participants organised by women's lawyers and a speech meeting with thousands of people in Tallinn. So we received the right to vote in 1917. The declaration by the Interim Government stressed that the freedom and equality of all citizens and the right to take part in elections to local government bodies would be ensured. But let us come to this day. During the 25 years of the period of independence, there have been only one fifth of women in the Chamber of the Riigikogu again and again. In the Nordic countries, as we know, there are certainly more than a third of them, in Sweden, men and women are in half. If we want the Riigikogu to represent today's Estonian society in the truth and spirit, i.e. to be worthy of the 21st century, then a striped tiger jump must be made. That is why, here and now, we are putting forward a bill that aims to give voters the opportunity to choose equally between women and male candidates, because men and women are on the electoral lists in turn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U78	There's no more calls. I have adopted one draft and two inquiries and we will continue to process them under the Home and Working Procedures Act. Incoming check, please! 90 members of the Riigikogu are present in the plenary session, none 11.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U79	We'll pick up where the job left off yesterday. We will continue to read the first reading of the draft law on supporting local democracy initiated by the Free Party Group. Jüri Adams, waitress from the originators of the speaker's stand, please! Just a minute, George. Can I ask everyone who wants to talk to each other to do what they do a little faster? Thank you. The debate was interrupted at the moment when the initiator answered questions from members of the Riigikogu. Have the questioners changed their minds for today? Thank you, George Adams! No further questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U81	Helmut Hallemaa will make a report on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U82	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present the position and summary of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on bill No 388 on the draft law on supporting local democracy. Both the Commission and I have two points of view and, in fact, we were divided. Yesterday's debate in the Chamber, which lasted quite unprecedentedly for a long time, also showed that this topic is attractive. On the other hand, a number of things, questions and their answers showed that this bill poses certain problems in terms of legal language, as well as in terms of technical regulations. The draft was discussed in the Commission on 21 March. The Free Party submitted the draft law on 8 February and the Government gave it a position on 9 March which did not support it. In the committee sitting, I would like to mention these people so that I will not have to read the names for consensual decisions later on, Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Jaak Madison, Kalle Laane, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits. The committee was chaired by Ken-Marti Vaher, chairman of the committee, and Lauri Luik was absent. Mr. Erle Eneveer, Head of Advisor-Secretariat, and Mr. Karin Tuulik were present. Külliki Kübarsepp, on behalf of the authors of the draft, carried the draft from the invited side of the committee, in Jüri Adams' hall yesterday. The Government was represented in the Commission by Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission had, like Saalisk, quite a wide-ranging debate, which went beyond the draft law itself. During the debate Jaak Madison, Helmut Hallemaa, Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott and Arto Aas took the floor and Külliki Kübarsepp answered many questions. As has been said, I myself supported the Commission and I still support local development, local life. I also support local democracy, although, as it turned out yesterday, this animal needs to be defined and can be defined in many ways. However, all measures and steps to support local life are certainly important, both in cooperation with the state and local authorities. According to the government, the draft law is later I will bring the government's position to the longer term with the technical problems. In fact, this bill is contrary to quite a number of laws and does not solve these contradictions. There are certainly no changes to the law by party law or by state budget law. A good colleague in the Commission, Külliki Hatter, also said that this is a political issue, a political document. This was actually demonstrated by yesterday's debate. In yesterday's debate, there was one thing that perhaps should be emphasised more. The fact that political parties who are not members of the Riigikogu are now also receiving allocations from the state budget in accordance with the Political Party Act: if the 2% threshold is exceeded, i.e. the votes are between 2% and 3%, it will receive EUR 30000, between 3 to 4% it will receive 60000 and between 4 to 5% it will receive EUR 100000. The new draft law, which, according to the initiators, is intended to equalise or equalise opportunities, provides for restrictions. According to the draft, the new institution, or local democracy support measure, will only extend to lists that have been elected to the council. Actually, there's another limit, which is essentially 50 votes. As a result of the administration, or technical solution, the EUR 100 limit is set and the so-called 'voice price' is offered at EUR 2. It means 50 votes when calculating. If there are few 50 votes in Tallinn, there are quite many 50 votes in many other parts of Estonia, there are hundreds of them in all over Estonia. So there is no and there will be no equality with the draft we are discussing in this sense. This was also pointed out by Jaak Madison, who said that the bill does not treat candidates, does not treat the lists equally. The Commission found the same thing that came out of the hall yesterday, which is the so-called Ansip and Savisaare case, which can receive a lot of votes in different places and has received a great deal of votes and thus receive a great deal of support. I myself raised the question in the Commission, which I still have, that political parties can operate and operate in the same way at the moment and receive the same support under party law. According to this draft law, the same legal entity will have a different legal rule under another law, according to which so-called local entities in political parties, which are not directly defined, should receive the support of local democracy equal to the electoral lists if this draft becomes a law. This issue certainly needs to be resolved, because one legal entity cannot operate under two laws, especially not to obtain financial resources. Arto Aas also brought the issue of the so-called cases to the wider agenda in the Commission's debate. In fact, many of the major parties already in power, as well as the electoral federations, receive more support because they have a larger base of votes. As a result, the aim may be to expand the possibilities of electoral lists to narrow down. The parties, who also have the opportunity to apply, have an interest in going on the ground and getting another resource from there. Finally, I will also bring away the government's position, which, as has been said, does not support the draft law. One reason was that according to the draft text, the funding of political parties should be reduced. In fact, however, this cannot be done through another law, but it should have been done through the law through which funding is currently governed by the law of the party. The Ministry of Finance drew attention to two specific points. The contradiction with the State Budget Act is that pursuant to the Budget Act, we give money for the activities of political parties and now it is planned to allocate the same money for another purpose under the Second Act. This money was estimated at 1.25 million compared to 2013. One of the problems that Jaak Madison pointed out in the Commission is certainly: there is a relatively large, disproportionate need for administration in the case of relatively small support. It is clear that, whether the amount is small or large, the use of the funds allocated by the State must definitely be properly controlled and, according to the Ministry of Finance, it should be provided for the financing of the same measure. The Commission finally took procedural decisions. First, it was decided, by consensus, to put the draft on the agenda of yesterday's sitting, to propose that the draft be rejected (by 6 members of the Commission, 1 against and 3 abstentions) and to appoint a rapporteur before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U83	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U84	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, thank you for your review. You spoke about the technical problems that had been the subject of the issue and other complaints to the draft. But I did not fully understand what you were saying about whether the idea of the initiators of the draft, that local electoral alliances could in any way be supported alongside political parties, had any discussion at all and did the Members of the Commission express any views on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U85	Thank you for your question. I think it really did not mention that the Commissioner, Mart Nutt, mentioned that electoral alliances could have very different permanences on this subject. Yesterday I asked a question here on this very subject. I find it relatively incomprehensible to myself that electoral support or the rights and movement of this local democracy operating grant after electoral alliances disband or people move on from there. In essence, this is, after all, like support for one person. I think that the issue of electoral alliances needs a much more serious debate and cannot be dealt with within the framework of this law. Yes, there are many electoral alliances across Estonia. However, in the context of the draft under discussion, it also received the Commission's mention of a much bigger problem for me, too, that the party is one legal entity that has been registered, formed and operates under one law, and now the right to apply for a grant is granted to a local entity that is actually very different within the parties. Clearly, it is also unthinkable what this local unit means. After all, the municipalities are completely different here. If you think about it within a single municipality, many units within a single municipality are much larger than local units. So I think the question is, in paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 3, where this movement is, I would say, very politically worded. In fact, it would need a clearer legal wording.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U86	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U87	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Did the Commission also mention that if the electoral union, this local unit, is given this amount and, for example, the two people who received the most votes think that the money belongs to them as if it were their own? So if they discover that they are still party members of some kind, and choose the path to the party, will the money move with them, or will the money remain in the electoral union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U88	Thank you for your question. I don't know how to answer that. I think this is a serious circle of problems. This was pointed out in the committee and from yesterday's questions quite nicely, the topic was that people who are members of political parties, including members of the Riigikogu, are not specifically mentioned in any political party or any person standing in election alliances, in any case, in a number of roles. From that time of day to that time, they are party politicians, and from that time to that time, they are the people of the electoral union. The Political Financing Monitoring Commission has also already pointed out that such problems may arise in the context of these elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U89	Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! There are no further questions for the Commission's rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U90	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, above all, the Free Party Group. I am glad to be able to begin with a direct compliment to you because this law can be read as a fictional work. I had this feeling that Campanella's "Suntown" or Thomas More's "Utopia" or the story of Socrates, where she talks about how Plato imagined a perfect country. It must have been where everyone is equal and every citizen has two slaves, such a fabulous country. I very much like the title of this bill, 'The Law of Support for Local Democracy'. It's as mysterious as the concept of local democracy. I would point out that if I came up with a law called the 'Law on Righteousness Support', it would make you wonder what law it is, that it is actually a penal code. So we must be grateful that you show us an example of how such things can be viewed with fantasy. There are also some very loose things that really leave democracy where we have the right to decide and where democracy is, if not the right to decide. Paragraph 3 (1) (2) and (3): An election union whose list of candidates has received at least one place on the local government council has the right to apply for and receive operating grants. The question remains that if this person elected from the electoral union enters a competing list of political groups, will the electoral union still receive this money. That's great. Next: a local unit of a political party whose list of candidates has received at least one place on the local government council. It has become, not that it is in this group and represents the relevant party. I had a case like this in Narva where I helped the Reform Party organize the elections and one person got into the council, but momentarily after that, it crossed the Central Party list. There's no such case here. Paragraph 3 of the same section states that the issue of the grant and its amount are decided on the basis of a separate law in these cases. This is one very novel and beautiful thing, not to mention the law with which it is done, not to say that there is a regulation by the Minister, etc., but to have a separate law. Unfortunately, a separate law is initially missing from our legal vocabulary, but it will probably have to be added. Let's look at § 4 (1) where there's a very interesting thing. Only the use of the operating grant is allowed. Remember this word 'only' for the policy work of local government council ambassadors and ambassador groups with residents of the same local government unit. And the policy is to make articles, publish them, etc. If a person now writes such an article and reads it randomly, maliciously, through someone next door, the writer violates the rules, for the article was read not only by the inhabitants of the municipality to whom all these political efforts should be directed, but also by someone else. Since this is a violation of the rules you have formulated, he might be able to take back that money. According to this law, you cannot inform others. Here, of course, there is a need to extend this text to see how it is technically possible, but I think it can be done. Paragraph 2: One of the starting points for the operating grant institution is... Normally, when A is said, B.I also read the paragraphs carefully to the end and I would like to know where the other views I did not find. Unfortunately, I have to say it's a minus. But there are also pros, because the Free Party supports popular wisdom that if you can't, but I really want to, you can. Paragraph 3 of the same section states that operating grants are not allowed for other purposes, etc., and then there are seven cases when they are not allowed to be used. However, subsection 4 of the same section states that the Political Financing Supervision Commission is entitled to allow individual specific exemptions from the prohibition listed in subsection 3 (1) (7) of this section. It means you can't, but if you want to, you can if you want to. Paragraph 5: In order to determine the annual amount of operating aid, a sum of EUR 2 shall be taken into account for each vote. If I take part in the elections and go to the council, I get two euros for my own vote, and that can be interpreted as buying my own vote. I know for a fact that I'm buying, and I know for a fact that I'm getting this great money. Second story, specific situation. 17 people will be elected to the compound. Well, there are 5,000 inhabitants, 4,000 voters, 2,000 will be elected and 16 people will be elected, each of whom will receive 49 votes. The annual amount of their contribution is less than EUR 100, i.e. they are not paid, they are not receiving anything. One person gets 1216 votes, i.e. 2432 euros. We have such examples enormously in different places. Democratic, I like it personally, there's something suspicious out there, but it's okay. Paragraph 6: A person must apply for something properly. The question is, where are these requirements, where are these requirements? Paragraph 7 again raises the question that if a member of a party leaves a party, whether he still has the same authorised person who is going to make the money, or if someone else is. Colleagues, the draft will awaken fantasy and be happy to support it, but unfortunately it must be said that this is not the way we support local democracy. Finally, in a purely personal way: Jüri Adams said that I was once advised by the IX Riigikogu to come down from the tree. I'm a very benevolent person when I told Jüri Adams to come down from a tree, which means there was a tree and you, Jüri, were sitting on a branch there somewhere. I don't see any other way I could have said that. Check, please, the verbatim! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U91	Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U92	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am very pleased that Mr Stalnukhin has already highlighted the shortcomings of this draft to a large extent. I'd like to repeat a few things that really caught my eye. If a Commission protocol is to be drawn up, the rapporteur at the committee by the initiators of the draft has said that electoral associations operate under the current law under the partnership agreement and have no legal liability. When operating grants are implemented, it is important that electoral alliances also have legal personality. And now that we're talking about this support, it's actually double support. Political parties will receive a so-called operating grant from both the state budget and the local cash register if they stand as candidates for local elections, and so would the electoral alliances. When one party says that there is a law to support local democracy, I can safely say that it is, in fact, a law to restrict local democracy. A representative of the initiators of the draft act has also said in the Commission that the drafters expect electoral federations to have the same legal status as party lists and this will also increase accountability. The question arises as to whether electoral associations at local level are currently not responsible for anything. This is, in fact, I think, a violation of the basics of democracy, when we say that we can no longer have electoral alliances, everyone must have legal personality, etc. And that's just to get these two euros per person. If we go further from here, if these electoral alliances are to be legal persons, we will take a bold step forward in the creation of utilities parties. In any case, associations must remain, people have free access to the electoral union, whether or not to apply on the electoral union list. And as far as the question of financing is concerned, banks are not currently known to give money to partnerships. I have a question as to whose account this money will be transferred if it is an election union. Let's say the first number gets 3,000 votes, he's entitled to 6,000 euros. He brings in a number of other people who have received fewer votes, and they agree among themselves, for example, that the money will be transferred to the account of the person who received the most votes. But the person who's been getting the most votes may leave the council after a while. The question arises as to whether the Commission for the Financing of Political Parties will then pursue this money. Also, if those people who have been nominated and elected on the electoral list are unable to agree between themselves, whose account will this money be transferred to? Is it again the Committee on Financing of Political Parties that will become an "arbitrator"? There's a whole series of questions. First of all, I repeat, electoral associations should also have legal personality, otherwise they have no responsibility, as the draft rapporteur in the committee said, and as the draft explanatory memorandum points out. And secondly, whose account is this money still transferred to, and what does it add to the protection of people's rights at local level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U93	Please, Küllike Hatter, on behalf of the Free Party Group. Three minutes extra time, to the maximum extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U94	Good Chairman! Good Riigikogu! It is our role, the Riigikogu, to create the conditions for the self-realization of our people. Our role is not to live a real life for anyone; our role is to create opportunities. We in this Chamber must not share the misleading information provided by the previous speaker. Our right is to use perhaps the humorous approach represented by the first speaker on this platform. The draft law on support for local democracy presented by the Free Party Group creates a new state independent support measure, which is support for the policy making of successful lists at local government level. This is neither an independent nor a descending type of cost benefit. Local democracy action grants provide opportunities for more people to participate in politics, whether electoral alliances, party lists that are more independent of central offices, or even successful individual candidates. It is a natural process for a democratic society. The role of the Republic of Estonia, the soon-to-be 100-year legislator, cannot and must not be to close the front door to democratic opportunities. This is definitely not appropriate for a free and open country. In a democratic society, voters must be treated equally and have equal opportunities. On the basis of the current law and in the light of the practical experience of life, I dare say that electoral alliances and individual candidates at local level are not equal to lists of political parties. The funding system has only focused on political organisation of the party. The philosophy of the free party is that local living arrangements must be based on local needs and opportunities, less party politics must be done. And it is those who are able to do this more competently every day at home. It is incomprehensible why local policies are not publicly supported, but are being enslaved through parliamentary policies. The financial support of party self-government policy depends on the decision of the central offices and the generosity of the leading politicians. The electoral alliances are under- and ridiculed by not giving support to them and, instead, by convicting the activists. This is clearly a social castration, where some are more equal than others. Successful lists and candidates must be treated in a uniform manner by granting operating grants to develop and raise awareness of their policies. Our draft is not about introducing or growing the political food chain. Nor is our aim to provide funds to cover the debts of the electoral campaign, which dispels political responsibility. Our aim is to encourage direct and immediate political action. In addition to the independence of the electoral alliances, the draft Free Party also grants independence to the local lists of political parties. Those in this Chamber do not want to admit this, but the influence of the parties' central offices on local cells must be reduced. Good political leaders! It's a positive effect. Independence and financial independence create a prerequisite for making decisions in the interests of the community. The community in today's sense is my people in my place, whether it be a village, a settlement, a parish or a city. I very much believe that the independence of the local lists of parties, as well as the financial independence of the central office, will raise more responsible and self-thinking people in the political parties. A small country, as we are, needs people who can handle themselves and who are free from addiction chains. It is quite natural that if we create more opportunities for people interested in more politics to participate in politics, we will do so at our own expense. We are using EUR 5.4 million to support local democracy, which is now coming to the political parties' cashiers on the basis of the results of the parliamentary elections. We are talking at first about EUR 1.25 million, which is not a lot of money if we divide the six parliamentary parties. It is beneficial for all political parties to have more and more people in Estonian society who understand what an animal this policy is. Politics isn't like I'm just gonna do it and that's it. It's more than that, it's work, it's communication, it's responsibility. That is why our draft offers operating support to the local level. The Free Party Group calls on all MPs to think and untie themselves from the typical political party funding system. It's gotten in the way of time. Social models have changed and are changing even more. More cooperation is sought, more trust and economy is sought. More people are needed who are active, entrepreneurial and responsible, especially after the administrative reform, where decisions that have been made dirty give rise to discouragement. For example, the same subject that the Free Party has addressed in this Chamber and in several committees, the issue of self-determination of villages. The government coalition recognises the problem, but does not want to seek a solution. But we offer solutions! We have at least one political group working in the Riigikogu to find solutions. Our draft offers a level playing field between local government policy players. Yes, the solution of the Free Party to support local democracy at the expense of the current amount of money for political parties requires the same principle of budgeting as any other civil society organisation, but that is our aim. It is a strengthening of democratic governance through equal and uniform opportunities for policy actors. The current legal space does not guarantee this. Good ambassadors! I invite you all to get rid of the pseudo-terror in front of the electoral allies and your local party associates. They won't have to take power from you when this bill comes into force. You can only lose your current power as a result of your own inaction. I call on you to support the draft law on supporting local democracy submitted by the Free Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U95	There is no further wish for negotiation, I will conclude the negotiations. What, then, is the proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs? The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to reject the draft at first reading. This proposal needs to be voted on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Constitutional Committee 388 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 56 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the Constitutional Commission proposal, 8 against and 1 abstention. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was supported and the draft 388 falls out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U96	Third reading of the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Hard Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U97	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good fellows! There are two reasons why I came here on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party during the negotiations on the third reading of this bill, and these are the following. If we adopt laws in this Chamber, there is certainly one aim to make something more flexible, better, as a result of these laws, so that our people's lives can change for the better. But in doing all this, we need to keep in mind that we do not violate the rules, practices, agreed principles when dealing with these laws. In the process of processing this law, we almost broke one agreed practice. Dear friends, we should never change the Employment Contracts Act without the social partners first agreeing, arguing and agreeing to each other and then bringing the result of the agreement to our hands. It would then be our job to turn this agreed change into a law. I am pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs did not allow the so-called social partners to enter its door as a lobby group, i.e. by not talking about the agreed topic into the law. So, on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, thank the Committee on Legal Affairs for this. Another reason to come here and talk maybe it's a little more personal. I think we've all been to work from a young age and earned our first salary. I had this job, maybe in the beetfield, in the beets hoes, some other people maybe in the herd, and so on. But we all remember how sweet that first salary was, how sweet it was, or how desirable the bike we bought for our first salary. I know that today our young people have become more smart people, but the will to work during the summer, to earn their first salary, to understand not only the value of this money, but perhaps to prove themselves, is also unspokenly great for these young people. And when we think about it, we all have the thought that maybe we have been more holy here in Estonia than the European Union as a whole, that our laws are perhaps even more rigid than in the European Union. I am therefore pleased that we are now taking a major step towards making young people's employment opportunities more flexible. This is needed not only for our employers, but also for our young people. So the Social Democratic Party Group supports this bill and invites all of you to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U98	There are no more requests for negotiation. Let's get to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act and other laws, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 356. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the bill 356, no one opposed, with one abstention. The Act amending the Employment Contract Act and other laws has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U99	Third reading of Bill 361 of Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Aivar Kokk Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U100	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say a few words about this very important draft. If you remember, at first reading, I started by saying that smart doesn't rush. As my previous speaker said here, we sometimes comply with the directives of the European Union with German precision, without thinking what the result is. In the case of this draft, I think we can say for the first time in Estonia that, if all the other European countries have adopted this directive and the summer fuels have passed on to bio-diluted diesel, we will postpone this transition for one year and do as the directive requires by 2020 these requirements will be met. This year, however, we will leave all car drivers, fuel consumers, a chance to save on every litre. It's a small amount of money, a few cents, but it's quite a lot of money a year for both entrepreneurs and families. I hope that all members of the Riigikogu will support this bill in a consensual manner, as the Committee on Economic Affairs did with the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U101	There's no more calls. The proposal of the Economic Commission is to put the draft to a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on Liquid Fuels, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 361. Please take a stand and vote. There are 74 members of the Riigikogu in favour of adopting the Bill 361, with 7 abstentions. The Act amending the Law on liquid fuel has been passed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U102	The third reading of the draft law amending the Youth Work Act, the Special Schools Act and the Law amending the Interest Schools Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Toomas Jürgenstein, please! I'm sorry, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. The manager was half blind. This is a law amending the Law on Youth Work, the Private School Act and the Law on Interest Schools. One letter went wrong. Please, Toomas Jürgenstein!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U103	Good Chairman, who you benevolently robbed of 20 seconds of my time! Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is, the bill in front of us has gotten a little attached to my heart. I also dare say this about the other Socialists in my group. It seems to me that there are other fans of this law in this hall. I also understand those who are moderate doubters. Once again, as a reminder: if everything goes as planned, there will be an additional EUR 6 million for recreational education and recreational activities from September this year and almost 15 million for the next full year. I will once again try to highlight why this bill is still so important. First of all, it seems to me that with this bill we are creating prerequisites for a young person's comprehensive education. For example, when we look at the student's day, home and school have so far clearly dominated the education side. Usually in the afternoons, an education of interest has been left a little behind. To remind you, it seems to me that almost everyone has also been exposed to certain contrasts between recreational education and school education. For example, a sentence that can come to the student both at home and by the school: "You will not go to the computer circuit or exercise until the grades are in order. ' I believe that a lot of us have heard such a sentence. Fortunately, however, there are not many such contrasts. I hope that if the education of interest becomes a little more systematic and the children are better supervised, which is what this bill creates, then these oppositions will also grow over to cooperation. Secondly, I would like to dwell for a moment on the concepts of either hobby education or recreational activities. By default, they assume that school education is not particularly interesting or that there are at least certain areas that are boring. As a person who has been wandering in the educational landscape for several decades, I dare say that it is often boring for a student to have these topics that he does not understand. At least my experience also says that once one thing has become clear and arouses interest, it may be of interest to another, somewhat darker subject. In short, I hope that interest and curiosity in recreational education will also be passed on to the school. Thirdly, I would mention egalitarian education. There is a general consensus that one key to education in Estonia, but also, for example, in Finland, is that the differences between the levels of our schools are not very large. At the same time, there are some signs of anxiety in the air. I myself have been a teacher at a very good upper secondary school for a long time, and it seemed to me that the percentage of pupils who came from the country remained lower year after year. I know very well that there are other reasons, such as state secondary schools... Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U104	Three and a half minutes of extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U105	For example, the same state upper secondary schools that allow children to receive a very good education in their own region. However, a strong regional dimension in education of interest could also give a little support to children in rural areas and make them more competitive. I will give a nostalgic example of my youth. My passion was bird watching. The home was in the country, I ran along the forests and fields, in the midst of Kumar's legendary 'Estonian Bird Outsider', published in 1953. Then came the kind of bird camp directed by Peter Ernits, whom I do not see in this hall at the moment. I discovered the city boys were way ahead of me. They had received systemic guidance that I didn't have. So, a strong regional dimension. Finally, I would like to mention the element of courage contained in the draft. In education, progress sometimes has to be moderately and reasonably risked. There is also a point of risk in this draft: none of us know exactly the future; we do not know how successfully the symbiosis of home, school and recreational education will work. But it is also a fact that the stagnation of education in a rapidly changing world is a nightmare for every country. Finally, I would like to thank the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Research, who have put a piece of their soul into this draft. I'm proud of the Committee on Culture. It seems to me that we found some nuances and were able to dim this bill even better. The Social Democrats, of course, support the adoption of this necessary draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U106	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Central Party of March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U107	Honourable Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, Over a long time, serious, businesslike bill. The Centre Party is also a firm supporter. But as a school dad, I'd like to give you a little hint. Support for recreational education and its separation descriptions and matrices should be well-written. Where there is a locomotive, resources must be directed. Where there is no locomotive, this locomotive must be found and rerouted. So no student should be left alone, because one lost child is too much for Estonia. I recommend voting and call for a vote in favour of this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U108	On behalf of the Reform Party Group Laine Randjärv, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U109	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, When my dear colleague from the Committee on Culture said that this bill has grown on his heart, I would like to say that this bill has grown out of the heart of the Estonian Reform Party and has indeed become such that it will also grow on other colleagues, other people not only here on the political front, but certainly throughout Estonia. There are personal memories hoarded here. Perhaps I would also like to explain some of the figures that give me an idea of the life experience I have had in the field of activities of interest and education of interest. Since 1983, I have worked as a tutor and teacher in different schools and circles in this field. Since 2007, I have been managing and creating a bill by the Reform Party, which used to be called a bill for round money. Many complaints have been made as to why it was not adopted in 2008-2009. In 1992, when the bill passed the first readings here. One reason was definitely the time of the depression, which may not need to be repeated. Everyone remembers that, unfortunately, instead of getting more money, they had to cut it. The second thing, however, was that we did not get very well agreed implementing provisions, namely how exactly this money reaches those who need it in the best way. I must say that the current draft specifically mentions the fact that local authorities receiving additional money must not reduce their own funds in the field of culture. This is particularly important because, unfortunately, I have already heard such negative feedback from the largest local government in Estonia. When they were asked whether one or the other hobbies could now receive additional resources from this measure, the answer was that it was not obliged to give that money to our budget simply on the cultural line. With this draft being drafted and the idea for a very long time, I would like to emphasise here once again the following. Firstly, local authorities must not reduce their existing resources, as it is a national measure that provides an additional element to increase the number of children involved in recreational education and activities. Secondly, it is important to think about the regional dimension. Thirdly, it is certainly important that hobbies are specifically mentioned in this bill and are certainly eligible for assistance under this measure. Just for the sake of the verbatim and the protocol, I shall say it again here. The Reform Party supports this draft, has even been with its ministers in preparation and preparation of this draft, and certainly considers it important to move towards a higher percentage of regional support in the future. The proportion of the current amendment was 50: 50, i.e. diversity and regionality. We did not object to this in the Committee on Culture; we voted in consensus in favour of this amendment because the explanation was that during the transitional period, which is now, in 2017, linked to administrative reform, the consolidation of municipalities, we must take into account that we must perhaps review this implementing provision or measure in the future. If it works like this, or there is no need to fix healthy teeth, but if, for example, more incentives are needed for remote regions, then these percentages should be reviewed. Indeed, there has been talk about the importance of various circles and activities of interest, leisure activities, which is important. It must be stressed that local authorities currently support children's activities in a very important way, and all over Estonia this support is 150 million euros in local governments. We would hurt them if we told them that the 15 million that comes with the current bill is some kind of cardinal change or paradigm change. Absolutely not. But it's extra money that allows you to come to hobby groups, hobby schools for children who, for various reasons, whether they come from child-rich families or live far away from the centres where these hobby groups operate, have not yet been able to participate in them. In other words, through this measure, national cultural policy will help those in need. I believe that this is very well in line with the liberal view of the world. The aim of the Reform Party is always to support those in need, those who cannot help themselves. By supporting activities of interest, we are actually raising citizens other than creative people, who may not be creators when they grow up, because not everyone goes to creative work, but who are able to enjoy what creative people create and who are ready to make money for it in the form of concert and theatre tickets or in terms of their own leisure. Interesting activities are not only a privilege for young people; people take part in activities of interest for life, whether in the Nana People's Dance Group, in the Windmill Orchestra or in the choirs standing on stage. This year is the year of the Song and Dance, we are having a young song and dance party, and this year has been announced as the Year of Youth Culture. Indeed, as a representative of this area, I am extremely pleased that this bill can be adopted here in the Chamber of the Riigikogu. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U110	On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U111	Mr President! Good people's representatives! The Free Party Group naturally supports this bill, but I would like to highlight a few moments here. This is only the first step. Support for all activities of interest and education of interest has so far been the responsibility of local authorities and also financially covered. We must be very grateful to the local authorities that they have done this work so well. The fact that the state is now handing over a small hand of assistance shows, above all, that the state also values the work that has been done so far. But today, when we talk about this bill, we need to think about education as a whole, not just constantly highlighting one side or the other. Education is a holistic process. If we bring in new activities and new concepts, new areas, we still have to ask, in this context, what is the education that needs tomorrow and the day after tomorrow? Not only do we need new concepts, such as creative education or creativity, but perhaps we need to ask whether we can move forward more effectively towards knowledge-based Estonia through activities of interest and education of interest. Estonia has neither the best instrument nor the most valuable treasure than our educated people. Remuneration of the work of these teachers becomes the most important in the context of all recreational education. The 15 million added by the state must also be recognised for teachers who have been in charge of various names, circulars or choir leaders in all its diversity. The Free Party Group hopes that this first step will not be the last step, but that the country will move forward, at an ever better pace and with increasing courage, towards modernising interest education and activities, making them available to all and improving quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U112	Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing the negotiations. The commission's proposal is for a final vote on draft 341. That's what we're gonna do in half a minute. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote on the draft law amending the Youth Work Act, the Private School Act and the Interest School Act, which was initiated by the Government of the Republic, 341. Please take a stand and vote. 79 parliamentarians voted in favour of the draft, with no votes against or abstentions. Bill 341 has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U113	Second reading of Bill 204 of the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Mr Borodich, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U114	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Public Procurement Act on 4 April last year. And, if you remember, the first reading in Riigikogu plenary took place the same way last year, on 18 May, and the first reading was completed. Again, to remind you of what this bill is about. The main objective of this draft law is to transpose three EU directives: the Classical Directive, the Network Directive and the Concessions Directive. They modernise and make the organisation of public procurement more flexible, while reducing the time and financial costs for both contracting authorities and tenderers. The Economic Commission discussed draft law 204 at its meeting on 7, 8 and 21 November 2016, 6 and 13 December 2016, including 23 March and 10 April 2016. During the meetings, the amendments submitted to the Commission for consideration were examined and procedural decisions on the draft were taken. By the deadline for submitting amendments, which was 10 June 2016 at 4 p.m., amendments were tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the Group of the Centre Party, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Member of the Riigikogu Deniss Borodich. The Ministry of Finance also provided clarifications in its letter. Some amendments were withdrawn in the course of the procedure, while the Commission formed its position on the rest. During the procedure, a number of stakeholders addressed proposals and opinions to the Commission. There were dozens of them. These opinions can be consulted on a website that has an interest, and I am not going to read them all right now. The Commission also set up a working group on amendments and meetings with stakeholders. There were dozens of working groups meetings, dozens and dozens of interested parties. Following this, the group presented its proposals to the Committee on Economic Affairs, which then, by voting, also adopted positions. I will bring to you some important amendments or amendments compared to the first reading. The first real cardinal proposal that came from the Free Party was to lose a simple procurement. The group met stakeholders and found and proposed to the Committee on Economic Affairs that this was not the most sensible proposal. It was therefore not supported in the Committee on Economic Affairs. However, as a compromise, as a result of the group's discussion, amendments to the thresholds for public procurement were proposed (amendment No 9 in the list). According to this, the threshold for simple procurement could be increased by EUR 10000 compared to the draft. If the bill was 20000, then the proposal is to raise it to 30000. We also decided to halve the national threshold for construction work as a result of the meeting with stakeholders. If there was EUR 300000 in the draft, the group's proposal was to reduce it to 150,000 after meeting the companies. The national thresholds for supplies and services and the thresholds for the simple procurement of works were not amended compared to the draft; they remain at EUR 60000. And if the international threshold for supplies and services is 135000, it is EUR 5225000 for works. Why did we make these changes? As I said, to ensure a reasonable balance between the administrative and workload of persons and bodies involved in public procurement procedures and the general principles of public procurement, in particular equal treatment, transparency and control. I would simply like to remind you that, since the simple procurement procedure, the contracting authority is obliged to publish this information in the register: companies see that there is some kind of procurement in one area or another, so that they can submit tenders. The more transparent this procedure will then be. The working group also found that the rates set for social and specific services should be amended. While the draft had only an international threshold, it was decided to set national thresholds in the working group. As I said, the international threshold is EUR 750000, with social and special services in total, but we found this unreasonable. In the case of social and specific service contracts with a value of at least EUR 60 000, the contracting authority shall submit a contract award notice on the basis of the draft following the award of the contract. So, in principle, yes, if the value of the procurement is more than 60,000, it must be reported to the registry, but here it is important 'but' after the contract has been concluded. So a very large number of companies would not be able to find out about this procurement. That is why we decided in the working group to draw this line down and break up social and special services. Special services in medicine are, for example, security services and catering. Imagine what this security service would be like if, according to the draft, it went into "procurement" from EUR 750000. I do not think that there are many of these procurements, so we have drawn this border to EUR 60000. The aim of the draft is to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which gives them the opportunity to compete in this area as well. Why is this still important? If we did not lower this threshold, in the current situation, 80% of all possible orders would be excluded, which would not be the most sensible with regard to the arguments of transparency and competition. So it is precisely ensuring transparency and the necessary market access for businesses that are important arguments for the decision taken by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The next interesting and important block was the prohibition or admissibility of an internal transaction in an organised waste shipment. An amendment was tabled to the steering committee, if you want to keep track of it, it is a political group of the Centre Party. The content of the proposal is to abolish the ban on the conclusion of an internal transaction in organised waste shipments. What would that mean? The abolition of the prohibition would mean that the local authority would be able to conclude a contract with its own company, its own sub-office or any other body outside the procurement procedure without a call for competition. This was strongly disputed by the Estonian Waste Operators' Association, who found that the organized waste shipment service is provided by the local government. They considered that this could be reasonable if the Waste Act laid down all issues relating to the charge for the shipment of waste: the purpose of setting the fee, the amount of the fee or the procedure for calculating it, the persons liable to pay the fee, the date of payment of the fee or the period. Perhaps the Waste Operators' Association said that it would not be reasonable to amend the Public Procurement Act without the Waste Act, because we do not know on what basis the municipalities could start setting these fees. There is a very high risk of corruption here. The commission discussed this point thoroughly and did not support the abolition of the restriction on the conclusion of the internal agreement in the organised waste shipment. One very important proposal compared to the draft and current practice was related to the reimbursement of legal expenses. As you know, there is also a mandatory pre-trial procedure, or appeal procedure. The Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Estonian Employers' Confederation and other interest groups proposed this. In the appeal procedure, in addition to the state fee paid, the translation costs and the expert fee paid, the costs of the contractual agent shall be reimbursed, to a proven extent on the basis of 'the loser pays'. We all know, in the case of legal proceedings, that the loser will also pay the costs of a representative of the opposite party. In pre-trial public procurement procedures, there has been no such principle so far; everyone has paid the costs of his representative himself. Now we are going to make this procedure similar to what is happening at the court, but we understand that this requires a change in budgets or some kind of provision. So we give a sufficiently long date for entry into force, which is 1 January 2019. Another proposal came from the Council of Rectors, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation to introduce a new concept into the Public Procurement Act, namely the Institute for a preliminary ruling. The proposers referred to the fact that the practice of the Structural Funds implementation units in the European Union is often very uneven. Initially, the contracting authority is given advice in certain circumstances, which is often followed by the contracting authority, but later a financial recovery is made. In the view of the proposers, the problem could be solved by a binding ex-ante decision, for example by the Ministry of Finance as a public procurement supervisor and an audit and managing authority in the context of structural grants, which has the competence to provide binding guidance to both beneficiaries and implementing entities. The initiator of the draft act, the Ministry of Finance, admitted the existence of a problem arising from different interpretations of the law, but considered that this problem could not be resolved in the manner proposed by the Public Procurement Act, insofar as such a preliminary ruling would not be binding on the appeal committee, the courts or the Department for the Control of the Use of Structural Grants. The Committee on Economic Affairs took the same view, as the arguments of the Ministry of Finance seemed convincing. The next block was the subjecting of contracts for the financing of medical treatment to public procurement regulation. Here, there were also proposals from various institutions, as well as from my proposal No 63 to subdivide some of the contracts for the financing of medical treatment, such as those awarded by the Health Insurance Fund, to public procurement procedures or to establish procedures for the conclusion of such contracts in the relevant legislation, such as the Health Insurance Act. Examples can be found in the fields of fertility treatment, nursing care or rehabilitation. What's the problem? According to current practice, the Health Insurance Fund gives funding under the current law to hospitals entered into the hospital network development plan as a matter of priority, and treatment cases that cannot be completed are distributed among other health care providers. The preference for hospitals in the Hospital Masterplan is derived from the political direction set out in the Health Insurance Act and from the practice of the Health Insurance Fund. However, private health care providers want them to be able to compete on treatment financing contracts in the same way as hospital network development plan hospitals. They also consider that this would also be ensured if the Health Insurance Fund were to conclude contracts for the financing of medical treatment in accordance with the rules of the Public Procurement Act. We all know that the best option would, of course, be the free movement of patients, but as long as it has not been introduced into our system, competition is, in my opinion, the greatest criterion of transparency. Similarly, at the meeting of the working group, health care providers found that the Health Insurance Fund distributes limited public resources in a very non-transparent manner, that there is insufficient competition and that there are no clear objective selection criteria. It is not very clear how funds are distributed between institutions providing the same service. Of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Health Insurance Fund didn't see a problem here. The Ministry of Finance considered that even if it were subject to public procurement regulation, there is still a risk that these contracts would be concluded as an internal transaction and that this might not be a better solution for the patient either. However, the initiator of the law also admitted that transparency could be better. As it was a matter of substance on the Committee on Social Affairs, we decided to ask what experts and our colleagues think of the Committee on Social Affairs. Although the Committee on Social Affairs did not support this proposal, they took the view that small hospitals and private hospitals should also be taken into account when planning hospital financing contracts. The conditions and procedures for concluding contracts for the financing of treatment should also be clarified and made more transparent. Hospital Masterplan hospitals and non-developmental hospitals shall not be treated equally when entering into contracts for financing treatment. In this respect, the development plan for the hospital network needs to be supplemented or the presence of hospitals should not create any differences in the award of contracts for the financing of care. Our committee did not support this proposal. The content of the next major amendment was the disclosure of tenders versus commercial secrecy and confidentiality. There were very different views on this issue. For example, the proposal of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, which was withdrawn after all tenders had to be published in full since they were opened. However, at the meeting with business stakeholders, it appeared that companies did not support this option and considered that tenders should be made public only to public procurement participants. And when it comes to what should be disclosed specifically, it could be the cost of tenders, the contributions and other numerical indicators that characterise the tender in order to create more transparency. The Chamber of Commerce considered that, in addition, the characteristics of the procurement could be public. However, in consultation with the Union for Information Technology and Telecommunications in particular, we considered that the purchase of, for example, services and creative solutions should not disclose their characteristics. In view of all of this, the Commission concluded that the business secret is defined by the company itself with the exception that the numerical figures corresponding to the valuation criteria cannot be considered business confidential. For the rest, however, it must, by analogy with the provisions of competition law, justify why it is a business secret. For those who want to read more, this is Amendment 18. The next major issue was abnormally low tenders. Stakeholders proposed to allow for the rejection of the tender if the average wage or labour tax paid by the tenderer deviates to a certain extent from the average of the sector. As a result of the group's discussion, a proposal was submitted to the lead committee for consideration, specifying the regulation on the identification of abnormally low tenders. That's what they did. The point is that the contracting authority must compare the tender which it intends to declare successful with the next tender on the value. Where the value of the tender is more than 10% lower than the value of the next declared tender or more than 20% lower than the average value of the tenders declared to be in conformity, the contracting authority undertakes to require an explanation from the tenderer in accordance with § 115 (1). And then this bidder has to prove that he really pays his employees at least 70% of the average wage in the sector. Also...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U115	Dear waitress, if you need extra time, Article 67 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act allows this to happen after we have been negotiated. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U116	Do I have to go?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U117	You can use extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U118	Negotiation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U119	You didn't need to negotiate because your body language was very vivid. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U120	I didn't understand if I could continue. Is it possible to take extra time or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U121	You can ask how much you want.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U122	I don't know, five minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U123	Five minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U124	As I said, the tenderer must prove that he is paying at least 70% of the average wage in the sector to his employees. The Estonian Tax and Customs Board will be involved in issuing the relevant evidence. The Commission considered this proposal reasonable and took the initiative to support it. The following proposal concerned the use of a mandatory life-cycle cost methodology for the procurement of software. This proposal came from the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association. In their view, cost assessment is also important for software development services. The proposer considered that the contracting authority should be able to assess the quality of the product or service to be procured in the long term, as well as the need for software development and its potential cost. Figuratively speaking, this means that although the price of a programme may be the same or different, the evaluation is still based on the whole period and all possible development activities, i.e. all costs are aggregated, and then the best offer is taken together. The following proposal concerned the regulation on the prevention of non-payment to subcontractors. Here, too, there were very different proposals, starting with what was done by the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, to provide for direct payment to subcontractors. Figuratively speaking, the main contractor would provide a list of all his subcontractors and it would not be the case that the contracting authority would pay the main contractor and that he would pay the subcontractors, but that it would also be possible to pay directly to the subcontractors. The Commission did not see this as the best solution and did not support it. However, as a result of the group's discussion, a proposal was submitted to the Commission for consideration, which is included in List No 44, with additional provisions on the verification of subcontractors and additional guarantees of payment of fees. This is about construction contracts, and it doesn't apply to other things. According to the amendment, the subcontractor who has taken part in the performance of the contract has the right to obtain information from the contracting authority as to whether and how much the contracting authority has paid the tenderer for the works carried out by that subcontractor. Such information will enable the subcontractor to consider which remedy to take against the malicious main contractor. These things are done in the sense that there are few cases where the main contractor fails to pay the subcontractors for the work carried out, and these provisions allow for some improvement. As this proposal came to us at the last minute, we did not get enough stakeholders involved, but we will also see a longer time before these provisions enter into force, i.e. they will enter into force on 1 January 2019.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U125	Ladies and gentlemen, since the negotiations that we have not started took a little longer, however, if you would like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U126	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U127	Three minutes extra time. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U128	Some organisations have also informed us that regulation is too crude, perhaps not the most sensible. The arguments are precisely such that the contracting authority is given the role of a judicial authority, which increases its administrative burden and requires additional resources, since the contracting authority must assess whether or not the main contractor did indeed behave correctly vis-à-vis its subcontractor. When assessing this risk, these organisations considered that this proposal might not be the most sensible. At the same time, the Commission also took a position here and decided to support the amendment. There were 64 amendments in total, I told you about some. The Commission also took procedural decisions at the end of the procedure: to submit a draft to 204 plenary sessions for a second reading. a By 12 April, i.e. today, the proposal to terminate second reading and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading of the draft on 3 May and to put it to a final vote. That's it. Thank you. Questions are welcome.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U129	The first question is asked by Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U130	Thank you. Good waitress! This is a large and complex piece of work, with public procurement covering billions of euros every year. Firstly, I am pleased that the Commission did not support such dubiously scented proposals of the Centre Party in the area of waste management. However, I am very surprised at proposal 44, which concerns the fact that all subcontractors must be subject to control by the State, qualified by them, required by documents. Later, there is a chance or a risk that they will argue over payments, which is wild. Do the Members of the Commission realise that there are hundreds of subcontractors in major construction procurements, with whom the state should then start to establish civil relations, argue and control? And the fact that the proposal has not been discussed does not in any way excuse its entry into force only in 2019. That's a stupid suggestion. The idea may be noble, but its technical execution is absurd. What was the reasoning in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U131	Thank you. Indeed, very large amounts of money are moving through public procurement, several billions per year. Perhaps I expressed myself wrong in the committee, but this amendment was discussed. Like I said, it all started with the idea. And the idea is really good: how to protect subcontractors from malicious contractors. One of the options that came out when memory didn't deceive me, Ministry of Justice, was to use such a solution. There were different opinions in the Commission, so we also had a debate. However, in the end, the position on the amendment will be taken, and the position was that the majority still wanted to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U132	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said that the proposal of the Free Party to abolish the simple procurement, which was also supported by the Council of Rectors, was unreasonable and was therefore rejected. You know, if the criterion were reasonable, I think the proposals of the Free Party would mostly go through this Chamber. That's not really a reason. However, you said that the threshold for simple procurement was raised from EUR 20000 to EUR 30000. Perhaps you are opening up more of these arguments and debate here too, why such a result?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U134	Okay, maybe I made a mistake. We met with a wide range of stakeholders in the working group. Representatives of stakeholders who wanted to be involved found it unreasonable to support the Free Party's proposal in this way. However, as I said, a compromise was proposed to increase the standard procurement rate from 2000 to 30000. Why did some feel that this was not the best solution? It is precisely because the aim of this law is to ensure maximum transparency and to give small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to participate and obtain information on possible procurements. Why is simple procurement good? This means that, from the amount concerned, the contracting authority has to publish information in the procurement register, i.e. economic operators receive information when a service or an item is procured. If we were to lose the level of simple procurement, this information would be public and accessible to companies from EUR 60000. Up to this amount, the law basically requires that there must be a procurement procedure, but this does not preclude the loss of transparency in smaller procurements.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U135	Ladies and gentlemen, The negotiations will come after the round of questions. Let us listen carefully to the questioners and the answerer, and then the negotiations will probably also be more constructive. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Having repeatedly held the position of the contracting authority, I am very confused as to why the contracting authority is expected to have such competence that it will intervene or say whether the contracts concluded between the main contractor and the subcontractor are fair or unfair. I also ask what is meant by this provision that the contracting authority must compare and justify the tender which it intends to declare successful in advance, i.e. compare its value with the value of the next tender. Does this not increase the administrative burden again, does it not increase the administrative burden and bureaucracy of the contracting authority?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U137	I guess so and so. How do you compare? When tenders are submitted, the first level shall be the opening of tenders. So, in principle, you can see the price range between these bids. If they really are very different, there is still a possibility to exercise discretion. But I say frankly, practice has shown that it is not to be used because there are no precise criteria for how an official must behave. This was the feedback that led to the proposal to introduce such a change. As I said, since these are entirely new proposals, their implementation is foreseen by law a little later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U138	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U139	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, On 18 January, as can be seen from the website of the Committee on Economic Affairs, a number of organisations, such as the NGO Accessibility Forum, NGO Glint, NGO Estonian Association of People with Visual Disabilities, NGO Kakora, presented their ten-point concern. And they waited for them to be invited to meet interest groups. Indeed, these are issues concerning people with special needs, which may also need to be regulated in some way by public procurement. After all, we have seen very sad results, where the outcome of the work of the winner of public procurement does not correspond to what people with special needs expect. Other times, much more money will be spent on fixing it later. Can you tell me why they weren't invited here and why they haven't been answered? Today there is uncertainty, and this bill does not make it clear whether their proposals have been heard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U140	Thank you. I'm trying to refresh my memory now. In general, we have not put any proposals, not any positions, in or out of a drawer. If memory doesn't fool me, I think these suggestions and concerns were sent to the respective ministries to see how things are. And, as far as I know, of course, this can be checked from the document, the answer also came that most of these concerns have either been resolved or are in the final phase. We can look at it separately later, but I don't think there's been a situation where some kind of lobby was ignored.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U141	Arto Aas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U142	Thank you. I will return to this 44th amendment concerning subcontractors. You have argued, and the chairman of the committee has said, that this applies only to construction. I read in this explanatory note that it concerns all subcontractors, including those below the chain, as well as the provision of supplies or services. This means that, in the case of public procurement, the contracting authority must always check whether there are no grounds for compulsory exclusion of subcontractors involved in the performance of the contract. Evidence of this must be provided, etc. In addition, subcontractors or subcontractors of subcontractors will have the right to apply directly to the State for admissions. Has it been evaluated whether our state apparatus, our suppliers, our information systems are ready for this task? Is there money, is there people, is there the means to take the work of the main contractors on their own shoulders, to duplicate it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U143	Thank you. As the initiator of the draft, the Ministry of Finance admitted that such a fundamental change would require the development of the corresponding rules, since the same mandatory verification of subcontractors and suspension of payments on the justified request of the subcontractor had not passed the coordination round. Similarly, we do not know what questions might still arise, and that is why, on their proposal, we extended the date of entry into force. But if you ask what the feedback was, like I said, what came from the organisations was negative. They said it came too quickly, it could really bring more bureaucracy, raise the costs of the process. But, as I said, as is always the case in the Commission for amendments, if there is no consensus, they will be voted through. And on the basis of the outcome of the vote, the Commission decided to support this amendment, although, as the minutes show, the support was not unanimous.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U144	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! On the basis of a good colleague's previous question, it seems that the debate on this point has been rather short. For people who, for example, have worked in local governments and imagine how this procurement is organised, it seems that this has nothing to do with real life. But the more fundamental question is that it is as if the main contractors want to get rid of responsibility if certain obligations really go to the local government, for example. Does it not seem to you that the debate on this point has been completely inadequate and has been included in this very hastily? Or should we actually take this point out of here and continue discussions because the information has been very superficial?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U146	I am here as a representative of the Economic Commission, although, yes, I am a member, I also have an opinion. Where did this change come from? It really started when we started looking at the practical problems in the working group, which are particularly in the construction sector, and especially when the main contractor very often fails to pay the subcontractors. We wanted to try to regulate this issue. By doing so, everyone agreed that the Commission should work with the initiator of the draft law here. And indeed, many stated that the goal was good and noble, but there was no good idea how to write it into law. Then the Ministry of Finance (to my knowledge with the Ministry of Justice) came up with the solution that you can read in the current amendment, and finally, as I said, it is necessary and necessary to adopt a position on each proposal. Yes, not all Members of the Commission liked this solution, and they did not support it. I think, of course, that if more time had been given, it might have been made even better, but it can't be forever to process draft laws, so that decision had to be made. However, a compromise was made in the Commission: since we really do not know how this solution will work in practice, what costs it will entail, what it will mean in a procedural way, it is a good thing that we were able to at least postpone its entry into force to 2019 in order to introduce some corrections if necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U147	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U148	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm asking about abnormally low tenders. The current Public Procurement Act has sometimes forced in practice to choose the lowest price tender, although the law itself speaks of an economically reasonable price, etc. Does the new law rule out the selection of an abnormally low tender as a winner and also the possible situation where this procurement will subsequently increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U149	What is the purpose of this provision? The aim is to rule out any abuse of the market. This is particularly the case for companies that do not pay taxes and do not pay anything to subcontractors, and that is why they make an offer that is not adequate in the market situation. However, this does not necessarily mean that the cheapest offer must be rejected. As I said, there are specific criteria here. Where the first tender differs very significantly from the second and third tenders, the contracting authority shall ask the lowest bidder for proof that he is paying his taxes and is based on 70% of the sector's wages. If the tenderer can prove this by providing a certificate from the tax administration, there is no problem: this tender may be advanced and the contract may be awarded. If it is unable to prove this, or if, for example, the tax authorities provide evidence that this tenderer pays a significantly lower salary than the average of the market, this is a sufficient and strong basis for eliminating this offer. One of the objectives of this measure is also to combat envelope wages. If, according to current data, the average wage in the construction sector is about EUR 750 and the company says that it pays its employees EUR 300, then it is clear that no builder will go to work for EUR 300. Consequently, neither taxes nor official wages are paid and there are sufficient grounds for rejecting this tenderer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U150	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U151	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! You must have a very good memory, and I believe Aivar Chef refreshed that memory before your presentation. Yesterday, I asked him the same question, and he gave you this information, so I guess I'll ask you the same thing. But the question still stays in the air. Because people with special needs were not invited to the meeting and the Ministry was given a chance to discuss whether their proposals had already been incorporated into the law or not. So when do they get the answer? Does this go to them in writing? In fact, they would have liked to participate equally with other large companies, businessmen and all other organisations. However, they were completely excluded, I say. On 18 January, proposals were tabled, or at least concerns, and it would have been possible to meet them and discuss them. So how do they get an answer now? Will the Commission send them a reply? Does the Department send them a response? They're still in the dark.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U152	Thank you. I can promise you that I will certainly talk to the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Aivar Koka, because we do have a custom that any appeal, any proposal, will also receive an answer. Either way, it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U153	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. I also come back to the question of subcontractors, because big business organisations have really protested against it. Did and how seriously the Commission discuss the complaints made by these business organisations, even the State Forest Management Centre or the State Real Estate Association, and considered the proposal to exclude this regulation from the law at the moment? It's raw, it paralyzes the process, and we don't know how it works.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U155	Thank you. As you can see in the explanatory memorandum, a lot of organisations have just turned to us with a negative attitude and put forward their views. These are all known to the Members of the Commission, and they are not simply listed in this explanatory memorandum. This isn't some secret information. Can it be said that the period of proceedings has been sufficient? I think it's always better. It would certainly be wise to invite these operators or those who have expressed their views and to discuss this matter together. But as I said, the situation now is what the bill says.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U156	The third negotiator is Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U157	If not, we'll move on. 45th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the decision of the commission: take full account. This is also the case with Amendments 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 57, 58, 59, 60 and 61. 62nd amendment was tabled by the Estonian Centre Party Group, decision of the commission: disregard. 63rd amendment has been tabled by the member of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodich, decision of the commission: disregard. Amendment 64... Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U158	However, on behalf of the Group of the Reform Party, I would like to ask for the 63rd amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U159	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U160	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I have heard here the idea that certain institutions are being asked to make an additional tax administration. When talking about the average wage of one company, which is, for example, below the average of the market, the local government should deal with it. Wouldn't it make more sense for the tax administration to have information about those companies that are nationalised, either after a letter of formal notice or whatever is eliminated from being able to participate in public procurement? Is the new coalition and government planning to extend the bureaucracy package literally? The amount of work that comes, not to mention the fundamental issues, is still insanely large.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U161	Yeah, that's a good suggestion. I think we could talk about this separately with the IRS. But indeed, the Commission has not received such a proposal and we have not been able to form our position. However, the practice of comparing first, second and third-place offers in the ranking is not unique. In the world, Europe too, there are countries where this is done, and our closest neighbours in Finland have something similar. Neither did the representatives of our ministry invent a bicycle when they offered appropriate regulation on how to fight abnormally low offers and compete. Negotiations have also been conducted with the Tax and Customs Board on how best to do this. Of course, it would be right for us to have a tax administration system such that, as soon as there is a very low salary in some sector, these companies will be wound up, etc., but, as far as I am concerned, the IRS will carry out random checks. And if he really finds out that one company or another has a suspicion that less taxes are paid there or that wages are too low, it will be dealt with. I don't know if it makes any sense for him to deal with all this at once, but why not discuss it with the IRS in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U162	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! I'm opening negotiations for everyone. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U163	Honourable Riigikogu! As a minister, I myself brought this public procurement law before Parliament. This is a very important document and this law must certainly be passed. European directives already exist and we should not have a time vacuum where directives and national law are in conflict. After all, this bill has been processed here in the Riigikogu for quite a long time. The sadder I am, I see amendments that have come up with this at the last moment and are unthinkable. I come back to the subcontractors, Amendment 44. Do the Members of the Commission and all the Members of Parliament really understand how public procurement is organised in Estonia, how many are there and how difficult they are? We are purchasing billions of euros. Each year there are dozens of large construction contracts worth hundreds of millions. Competitions are taking place and procurement conditions are very complex. These large-scale documents are almost impossible for small businesses to bite through. Now we want to make this life even more difficult. In the case of a large procurement, imagine that you are going to renovate the City Hall, at the moment when the competition takes place, the main contractor must submit the names of all subcontractors, contacts. There could be hundreds of them. Today, large companies are basically project companies. In large construction companies that win procurements, only 20 to 30 people can work, because the real work on the site is done by subcontractors. There are hundreds of subcontractors for every major object. Today there are one-man companies, such as electricians. Now imagine that you're building a big object year-two: how many men change, how many subcontractors change on the object. So you're gonna have to come back to every guy with paper in your hand, with a government official, with an RKAS, or I can't even imagine where. Maybe you need to take the paper to the city of Tallinn so I have an electrician change: he couldn't come that day, another man came. And then it's going to be checked whether this guy meets the conditions, whether he's fulfilling those qualifications or whatever requirements are stated in the law or in the procurement. It's a wild bureaucracy. We do not trust the main contractors that they can do this on their own and that they are looking for the most optimal options. Worse still, we're going to get involved in a dispute between several parties. Financially, this is the greatest risk: what can it mean in terms of the cost of the procurement and the timing of the execution of the procurement, if the subcontractor falls into a fight with his main contractor or if there is some dispute? And believe me, in the case of buildings, we all know that there are hundreds of these disputes. There are probably thousands of disputes about large objects: whether the parquet got off straight, whether the doorknobs squeak, whether the concrete work has been done with high quality, whether the plug is in the right place and what is paid for and when is paid. There are probably thousands of disputes there, and now we are giving each sub-contractor or his sub-contractor an easy chance to come to the state, I don't know where again, to Endla Street, to the Ministry of Finance, and to say, "Listen, I have a problem with the main contractor, don't pay him money, pay me or come to solve this dispute." So what's state official Peter, Jüri or Malle doing going to that object to solve this fight? What should the resolution of the relationship and financial disputes between these two private entities look like in reality? We're gonna take this country down. There are hundreds of nuances and quarrels like this, probably thousands, where the country must begin to take on the role of some middleman, I can't imagine it in nature. How can we introduce such changes? Yes, I admit, of course there are scumbags in the market. There are general contractors who behave unfairly, and long battles have been waged with them. All kinds of Facios and all kinds of guys, but fortunately, less and less. There's a problem. We also talked about this in the government, and the Minister of Justice had to propose its own solutions, guidance, etc. But you can't throw it into the law like that. And if there has been no involvement, there has been no discussion with the companies and companies that are active in this market, then let us not put it into law now. Let's consider these things, argue again, take some time off, think about what we can do and make this legislative amendment later. There is no political, party-to-party disagreement here. Let us not accept the amendment, postpone the date of entry into force and then later see if it came out or didn't come out. That's not the way to do justice! If not included...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U164	Excuse me, would you like some more time? Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U165	... not to negotiate, then let's put it aside for now. We will adopt the law and renegotiate this amendment in a specific area: whether it can be done in this way and what it means for subcontractors, for the main contractors and, ultimately, for the state. I would suggest that, in a worse case, it could make the process much more expensive, enormously bureaucratic, much slower. We're going to be handing over an object for maybe ten years, arguing about the money and whether the plug was in the right place or not and who's guilty. Friends! Amendment 44 has a good objective. I, too, want all parties to fulfil their obligations when the state acquires something. But we cannot today take all these problems so lightly on the country's shoulders, it is not credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U166	Erki Savisaar. Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U167	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I can say that the debate on the Public Procurement Act passed constructively, but in spite of everything, some issues remained unresolved and must certainly be returned to them in the future. One such issue is the right of municipalities to use "in-house" or "in-house" transactions in garbage disposal. In other areas, in-house transactions can be used, but there is an exception for some reason. I would point out that waste disposal is the only obligation imposed on the municipality, the right to comply with which has been removed from the municipality by means of in-house contracts. I would like to mention immediately that a number of paragraphs have been used in the following article by Carri Ginter and Kadri Härginen, lecturers on European Union law and public procurement law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu. Example of waste shipment and treatment', which appeared in the first Juridica Abstract issue of last year. The purpose of public procurement law is not to force a contracting authority to purchase a service the performance of which it itself has the capacity to provide. The in-house exception developed in the case-law of the Court of Justice precisely to deal with situations where the contracting authority has the necessary capacity. Although it is located in an entity which is legally separate from the contracting authority, this de ive separation is de facto apparent in substance. On the basis of the same concept, the Court of Justice has also established criteria, stressing that this separate entity must, in essence, be managed in the same way as if it were a department of the contracting authority. As a matter of fact, in such a case, the procurement situation cannot arise insofar as the contracting authority does not de facto have another contracting party using the internal entity. The direct translation of the 'in-house exception' is linguistically somewhat bumpy. Perhaps for the same reason, the German Bundesgerichtshof also avoids translation in its decisions and is based on the English term in-house. Both in 2011 and now, in the new draft law on public procurement with number 204, the term 'internal transaction' has been used in order to organise the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. It must be said that this choice of words has failed and maybe that is why the Commission failed to reach an agreement on this matter. Against the use of the term of an internal transaction, its usual meaning is expressed in financial law. For example, on the Financial Supervision Authority's website, it can be read that their market surveillance division deals with market abuse, including internal transaction and market manipulation concerns. In the common language, the term 'internal transaction' refers rather to violations common in the financial world, the English version of which is "insider dealing'. It's a whole different kind of deal. The unfortunate connotation contained in the law currently in force suggests that an in-house transaction is something exceptional and deplorable compared to normal public procurement. As a result, some judges have also found that an internal transaction is illegal. The case law of the Court of Justice explaining in-house transactions has been established in particular to ensure a normal situation and to avoid unreasonable results where the contracting authority would be legally prevented from using existing own resources. However, the use of the internal transaction term has led to the opposite result, where the purpose of the provision is to avoid the in-house transaction. Thus, the meaning of the in-house rule would be most clearly passed on in Estonian, i.e. the term 'in-house unit rule' or German-like 'in-house rule'. As a matter of fact, the in-house rule is a rule of European Union law whose interpretation and legal embodiment monopoly lies with the Court of Justice. At a time when the in-house rule was first put into practice by the European Court of Justice, it was not explicitly mentioned in European Union public procurement law. The Court of Justice has emphasised that, by virtue of the terms of the contract of European Union law, contracting authorities are also allowed to rely on the in-house rule in the case of concessions. It has also been made clear and unambiguous that public procurement law does not aim to increase the share of private sector revenue at the expense of public services. The Supreme Court has also stressed that public procurement Directives 2004/17/EC and 2004/18/EC do not apply to in-house transactions. This view is supported by the case law of the courts of other Member States, but Estonian practice tends to slip in the other direction. The German Supreme Court has also explained the legal meaning of the in-house concept. The Court has held that where a service is provided or goods are sold to a contracting authority by an entity similar to that of the contracting authority, this is a situation where the contracting authority does not buy in the service but provides it itself. According to the case-law of the Court of Justice, the main objective of EU public procurement law is the free movement of services and open and fair competition in all Member States. According to § 1 of the Public Procurement Act, the purpose of the Public Procurement Act is to ensure the transparent, rational and sustainable use of the contracting authority's funds, equal treatment of persons and effective use of existing conditions of competition in public procurement. Thus, the objective of public procurement law is not essentially to force contracting authorities to buy goods and services on the market in circumstances where they are able to produce goods or provide services themselves, so-called within-house. It is easy to understand and accept that the purpose of public procurement law is not to force the contracting authority to order welding work in a situation where it itself employs a welder or to purchase accounting services if it has an accountant. In the light of the judgments of the Court of Justice and later directives, the same logic has been developed and explained that, as in the previous case, the procurement situation does not arise in cases where the necessary resources are available in a sub-unit which is legally separate from the contracting authority. The need for regulation allowing in-house operations has been stressed by the Ministry of the Environment, the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, as well as the Estonian Association of Waste Operators, but unfortunately it was not currently supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U168	Mr President! Honourable representatives of the people! I worked for quite a long time as head of a poor state institution, and then it was inevitably one of my tasks to do public procurement, to deal with all its documentation, starting with the initial task and ending with the announcement of a successful offer and the conclusion of a contract. I must say that the current Public Procurement Act did not in any way prevent a good job or a good offer from being obtained. Of course, the highest interest of the contracting authority is always to find the most advantageous price and best quality offer. What is the most disturbing and even startling effect of this bill is precisely these last-minute provisions, starting with Amendment 44. This leaves a crushing feeling about this whole bill that the state once again does not trust businesses, institutions that want to do the best job, but raises the suspicion that everyone will definitely want to cheat on someone. The basic attitude to the Public Procurement Act should be that which is well formulated. But all these last-minute changes show that we suspect in advance, we suspect everyone, and this suspicious atmosphere is not the one that moves the country as a whole. All the signs of socialism that climb in on all sides are not suitable for a single state of dignity. Unfortunately, this also applies to the amendments introduced at the last moment in the draft law on public procurement. Large companies are already no longer satisfied with the prevailing business environment. Why are we making it worse here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U169	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U170	Honourable President! Honourable colleagues! If Erki hadn't taken the floor, I would have taken it even less easily, but right now I think it looks like some kind of Sarapuu comic book. Why? Why am I so critical? For a lot of reasons. If we make it the main reason that we do not need to obtain honestly and transparently, if we have the capacity ourselves, then that means that municipalities need their shops, their factories and all kinds of other things. That's actually how you justify it. I find it unreasonable and unnecessary. The local authority should not carry out such services. However, I think it is a completely insane plan to intervene in the relations between the main contractor and the subcontractors. In my opinion, this is legally and essentially completely undiagnosed. At the same time, I understand the willingness of practitioners to protect those small subcontractors who occasionally lose money in this process. But the change that has been introduced here today is totally unacceptable and unimplementable in real life. In this way, solutions cannot be found. This means, in fact, that if we even wanted to squeeze the main contractor, that he would be insane, and we do not know whether the subcontractor has been correct in relation to the main contractor, then we would have completely utopian in identifying it all. As a result, this regulation could not be introduced. So I very much hope that the procedure in this Chamber will continue in such a way that there will also be sensible solutions on those points that have been proposed at the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U171	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U172	Good manager! Good waitress! I wasn't going to speak today, but listening to the stories of some men and the speeches of the ladies here, I got sad, they still don't really know anything about the construction sector. If a local government manager or a manager of a small state institution has made a public procurement, then it is a great thing. In most cases, however, the main contractor is a company with 10 to 20 lawyers and the work is carried out by subcontractors, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. And the latest bills are often not paid, and it is these small businesses that are going bankrupt. This amendment 44 has not come at the last minute. This is, frankly, a proposal from large companies because they were no longer able to compete on the market. Some large companies do so by paying the first half to the subcontractor, the second half is never going to pay, and they are going to win the offer. They are not responsible for anything and the subscriber is not responsible for anything. This amendment does not regulate virtually anything for the main contractor. It regulates that the contracting authority is responsible for whether the economic operator who has worked on the site receives the money, which means that the economic operator who works there as a subcontractor has the opportunity to contact the contracting authority if he has not received the money. If, in the meantime, they say the money has been lost, you can only ask for the money that the principal has invoiceed or submitted to the principal's client. If the work is accepted and the principal has paid the principal, but the main contractor has not paid the subcontractor further, the question arises. What you're saying is that it's bullshit when subcontractors have to be registered with the customer. Guys, how many people are in here besides me owning a construction company? Two. Don't you know that there was always a procedure for all subcontractors to be co-ordinated with the subscriber? Just at one point, during a certain government power, these things were rejected. It's natural that the customer is responsible. Yeah, it's really good to be a local government manager, mayor, if you're not responsible for anything: I got the object, I made a contract, the main contractor built it, put the profits in his pocket. So, next to you, either next to Tartu or Elva, some of the entrepreneurs went bankrupt because he couldn't get his money. I can give you a good example of my region. The city of Jõgeva, where you, who are currently criticising here, were in power to stand on the side of the kindergarten construction of Facio Ehitus. Who suffered? Who ran out of money? Which entrepreneurs stopped their business activities? They were all subcontractors. You haven't read this section in peace. Read this passage calmly. It is very clear when someone can turn to someone and whether the customer has obligations. Yeah, well, it's a big concern that the customer's going to have an obligation. But every customer is now obliged to put construction supervision on their site. With the help of construction supervision, we need to make sure that everything is done correctly. That's the responsibility, not that we're throwing public money here or there. I do not want to give examples today of recent procurements. Let's call the Health Insurance Fund. There's no money. And if I were to ask you about the latest procurement of hospital equipment, I could give you concrete examples of where a 2.5 million-million-dollar device has been obtained instead of a million-dollar device, and that's okay. Or the defence industry or the Defence Forces, where we put the percentages, millions more, and where the latest procurements are written as such, that it is the most expensive thing to buy. More checks must be placed on the customer, checked and checked. That is the purpose of this amendment. I would like to stress once again that, in this proposal for improvement, large construction companies themselves have come with their own 70%, and no one else has offered it. They want Estonia no longer to squandered the procurement market, but to win those who honestly pay taxes as well as wages to their employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U173	I will close negotiations on the provisions of this draft. Let us now examine the amendments to bill 204 together, 64 of them. The first amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs, the lead committee decided to take full account of: the first, the second, the third and the fourth. The fifth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, the decision of the commission: disregard. The proposal is not subject to voting in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Homes Act. The sixth amendment is from the Economic Commission, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. So is the seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh. Amendment 12 has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, decision of the commission: take full account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U174	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U175	Let's get ready for the vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 12 tabled by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. The decision of the commission was to take full account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 53 votes in favour and 24 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was in favour. Let's continue. Amendment 13 is from the Economic Commission, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. This is also the case with Amendment 14. There is also the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21nd, 22nd, 23rd, 24, 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th, 30th, 31st, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38th and 39th proposals submitted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, by the lead committee: take full account. This is also the case with the 40th and 41st proposals. The 42nd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, decision of the commission: to consider the substance. Let's keep going. The 43rd amendment is from the Economic Commission, the decision of the lead committee: take full account. This is also the case with the 44th proposal. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U176	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please put this amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U177	I will specify the number of the amendment. [[A voice from the hall.]] The 44th suggestion. Let's do it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 44, which has been made by the Committee on Economic Affairs, on the decision of the commission: take full account. Please take a stand and vote. There were 52 votes in favour and 25 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was supported. Heimar Lenk, do you have a procedural question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U178	No. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U179	Please! Ladies and gentlemen, I shall put to the vote the 63rd amendment made by the Member of the Riigikogu, Deniss Borodich, the decision of the commission: to be disregarded. Please take a stand and vote. There were 24 votes in favour and 53 against, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. And Amendment 64 is from the Economic Commission, the decision of the commission: take full account. We have examined all the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 204. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U180	Next item: Second reading of the Bill 384 on amendments to the Commercial Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to ask Urve Tiidus, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U181	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The preparation for the second reading of the draft law amending the Commercial Code and the related amendments to other laws took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs on 4 April. The deadline for the submission of amendments, 29 March, received two proposals to amend the draft. They were presented by the House of Notaries. The people of the Ministry of Justice, as well as Tarvo Puri, Chairman of the Chamber of Notaries, took part in the debate. The chairman of the Chamber of Notaries explained that these proposals were made in the interests of legal clarity and concern foreigners who marry an Estonian resident and move to Estonia, especially those who wish to have the Estonian Family Act applied to them. According to the Head of the Chamber of Notaries, it has not always been possible to enter this wish in the register of matrimonial property in order to be visible to everyone, as the law is interpreted differently by the judge's assistants when entering the register. Hence the proposal to register data on the application of Estonian law to the property rights of spouses in the matrimonial property register. During the debate, the Commission clarified why this legal clarity was needed. To date, it has also been possible to choose which country's law applies to the property rights of spouses, but the problem is to make it visible in the matrimonial property register. It was also a question of statistics that how many couples this legislative amendment might touch or cheer up. We learned that there are no exact statistics, but there are certainly a lot of Finns and people moving to Estonia from other Scandinavian countries that are affected. Three amendments were thus decided to be tabled at the meeting. The first proposal gives spouses the opportunity to make their data on property rights visible in the register and to state that Estonian law applies to them at a certain time. That is the purpose of this amendment. The second amendment supplements the family law, as I said earlier, for reasons of legal clarity. This means that if the spouses have not yet chosen the type of property relationship in the agreement on the application of Estonian law to their property rights, the provisions on the acquisition of property shall apply. And the third amendment is technical and concerns the numbers of the sections. All the proposals were unanimously supported by the Commission with the words 'to take full account'. The commission also took procedural decisions. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by today, 12 April and also to propose that the second reading be stopped, and if the second reading is completed, send the draft to the third reading by 19 April and then hold the final vote. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U182	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. If the hall wishes to open negotiations, now is the time. That's not what you want. As you have heard, three amendments have been tabled to the draft law. Everyone is from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the commission has taken them all fully into account: the first, the second and the third. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 384. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U183	On the seventh agenda item: Second reading of the Planning Act initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment Act 411. Please waitress Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was initiated by the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu on 23 March. The first reading took place here on April 4. No amendments were received from Riigikogu members, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, 6 April at 10 a.m. The Government of the Republic gave the commission a position in support of the draft. The Commission had received its opinion on the draft by the National Audit Office, the head of the previous planning and construction law working group and Jõelähtme Municipality Government. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading on 10 April. A representative of the Ministry of Finance also participated. The Commission decided to make two amendments to the draft, one of which was submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Finance. The amendments bring the title of the draft better into line with current practice and technical rules. The current Planning Act does not provide an unambiguous basis for drawing up, ordering and financing the planning, and therefore it is not possible to decide to initiate the State's special plan until legal clarity on financing is established. The only obstacle to deciding on the time limit for initiating the state's special plan in the Government of the Republic is the question of financing the plan. This will be dealt with in this draft and it will therefore be necessary to enforce the amendment to the Planning Act more quickly than in general terms. Some questions arose during the debate. Siim Kiisler asked to comment on the draft memorandum from the National Audit Office. Anni Konsap, adviser to the Planning Department of the Ministry of Finance, explained that the letter of the National Audit Office drew attention to the fact that the transfer of funding could also lead to decision-making and substantive management of the plans. The Councillor confirmed that this draft does not provide substantive leadership or decision-making. Rather, the draft law contributes to a more specific distribution of planning tasks between the State and the municipality. Kristen Michal wondered whether the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance disagreed on the draft, referring to the opinion on the draft drawn up by Sandra Mikl, the Ministry of Justice's official. Sandra Mikli was the head of the Group on Codification of the Planning Act. Ms Konsap explained that Ms Mikl's letter did not express the position of the Ministry of Justice, but rather her personal position as an official and expert, rather in view of the implementation of the planning law. This draft is a question of financing planning and regularising current practice, which specifies the planning activities of local authorities, in particular the financing of detailed plans and their transparency. Deniss Borodich asked whether there was a risk of problems with possible violations of financial contracts. According to Anni Konsap, these problems fall within the scope of contract law. He informed that in the autumn the Ministry of Finance was planning to initiate a draft amendment to the Planning Act with a view to eliminating the errors encountered in the practical implementation of the Planning Act. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 12 April and to propose that the second reading be terminated. The Commission also decided that, should the second reading of the draft be completed, the final vote should be held on 19 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U185	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I'll open negotiations if I like. That's not what you want. Let us then examine together the amendments made to the draft law 411. There are two of them, both from the Committee on Economic Affairs. The decision of the commission is to take both fully into account, both the first and the second amendments. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 411. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U186	And today's last item on the agenda: First reading of the draft law on the resolution of labour disputes initiated by the Government of the Republic 407. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U187	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! I am pleased to present you with a draft law amending the regulation on labour disputes in the Labour Dispute Committee by renewing legislation. The current Act on the Settlement of Individual Labour Disputes has been in force since 1996. This is one of the oldest comprehensive legislation in Estonia and its many points in practice have led to both confusion and inflexible compared to real life. As a result, we have come before you with a whole new text. The Labour Dispute Committee is an extra-judicial body at the Labour Inspectorate. We have eight heads of labour dispute committees who solve labour disputes in four cities: Jõhvi, Pärnu, Tartu and Tallinn. Commissions deal with around 2,500 labour disputes a year, while about 400 continue to go to court. This means that most labour disputes in the Republic of Estonia can be settled out of court by means of labour dispute committees, which also reduce the workload of courts. This is certainly one of the positive aspects that the procedure there has been simple, quick and effective. With the new law, we would like to preserve these values and actually make labour dispute committees even more effective than they are today. Major changes compared to the current law. Firstly, the draft provides for a written procedure, conciliation procedure and compromise, in addition to the usual settlement of labour disputes at the meetings of the Labour Dispute Committee. These are concepts that have been in force in Estonian court proceedings for some time, but the laws relating to the Labour Dispute Committee currently allow matters to be resolved only in the format of the sitting. This, of course, will, firstly, delay the procedure in time, because the Commission must meet, and secondly, it will also exclude a number of alternative forms of procedure, in particular conciliation and compromise, where the parties themselves could reach an agreement and resolve the matter much more quickly. In 2014 and 2015, 90% of the claims submitted to the Labour Dispute Committee were financial claims, i.e. remuneration, holiday pay, compensation. There is usually no complicated or fundamental dispute, at least from the Commission's point of view. These issues can often also be resolved in writing and give the Commission the opportunity to devote more time to more legally complex disputes. Another important change is the abolition of the financial threshold for the requirements of the draft proposal. Under the current law, only claims of up to EUR 10000 can be applied to the Labour Dispute Committee, and the person can only apply to the courts for higher claims. For 20 years, it has not been established in practice that the financial requirements would be more complex in some way. For example, if a salary is demanded, i.e. the employee considers that the employer has wrongly excluded some part of the salary or other compensation, and the amount of the claim is higher than EUR 10000, the complexity of the claim will not change. It's still as simple as that. So we have not considered it appropriate to keep this limit, and then we have taken it out of the draft. We will also extend the competences of labour dispute committees. Under current law, only disputes arising under the Employment Contracts Act are settled in the Labour Dispute Committee, but of course the rights, obligations and disputes caused by the employee and employer are also caused by many other laws. For example, there is also a claim for compensation of material and non-material damage due to redundancy benefits if the employer has failed to submit an application to the unemployment fund to that effect. It is not in the Employment Contracts Act, it is in another law, but basically it still concerns the same compensation requirements between the employee and the employer. According to the bill, it will be possible to turn to other claims arising under the law. In the event of disputes arising from the execution of a collective agreement, collective recourse shall also be granted to the Labour Dispute Committee. On the basis of the current law, the Labour Dispute Committee can now only be contacted on an individual basis. This means that when, for example, ten employees turn in practice to a joint employer after a labour dispute committee, they must submit ten applications and the Labour Dispute Committee must then resolve each case separately, even though the substance of the case is essentially one for all ten employees. The restriction that the Labour Dispute Committee does not resolve disputes concerning compensation for damage to health caused by an accident at work or by an occupational disease, physical injury or death shall remain in force. They are very complex and time-consuming, which is why they do not coincide with the logic of an efficient, quick and effective procedure in the Labour Dispute Committee and then stay in court proceedings. In addition to other changes to the procedure, the draft also raises the requirements and remuneration for the chairmen of the Labour Dispute Committee and changes the nature of their employment relationship. Under current law, the head of the Labour Dispute Committee must meet the general requirements for officials and have a higher degree of legal education. The President shall be appointed for an unlimited period of time and there shall be no general regulation of his salary. According to the draft, we would like to tighten these requirements. As it is essentially an out-of-court tribunal, we would like competent top lawyers to work in this field. This is certainly hampered by existing wages and systems. According to the draft, a person who has acquired at least a master's degree in law can subsequently be appointed as manager, knowing the right to work, carrying out a labour dispute procedure. Further restrictions are also foreseen, such as the appointment of a person who has been removed from the post of judge, notary or bailiff. As a result of the tightening of the requirements, the President of the Labour Dispute Committee will be laid down in the law and, according to our proposal, it will be 90 to 100 per cent of the salary of the national conciliator. And that means about a double wage increase to nearly 3,000 euros. In order to ensure the quality of labour dispute settlement and the qualifications of managers, the draft also provides that the chairmen of the Labour Dispute Committee will be accredited once every three years in order to truly meet the highest standards in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U188	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Paragraph 16 refers to the costs of proceedings and states that the parties themselves bear the costs of the proceedings. If one of the parties is a person with special needs, such as a deaf person, and needs to attend a meeting of the Labour Dispute Committee, sign language interpreter, then it is known that the hourly price of sign language translation is 43 euros. And if we think that the monthly allowance for a person with partial employment capacity is EUR 192, it clearly creates a situation where the service may not be provided. Do you think that's reasonable? Of course, it is always possible to contact the local government and expect the local government to pay for it, but, as we know, most municipalities do not actually provide this service.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U190	Thank you. Indeed, such a provision in the draft is that both parties pay their own procedural costs. The logic here is also that it is a simple and low-cost procedure in terms of'regulation', where it is not necessary to hire a lawyer, etc. It's been its logic. But this aspect, to which you refer, is certainly worth the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U191	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! Ms Maris Lauri, Member of the Social Affairs Committee, has been invited to the chair for a co-report on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U192	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Labour Dispute Resolution Act at its meeting on 4 April. Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour, introduced the draft. Since the Minister made a thorough introduction in advance, I wouldn't dwell on it here. Monika Koks, Adviser to the Department for the Development of Working Life of the Ministry of Social Affairs, also participated in the meeting. The members of the Commission had six questions for the Minister and the Ministry official, and I will then refer them briefly. Firstly, it was asked to explain why it had been decided to extend the deadline for the examination of the application submitted to the Labour Dispute Committee from 30 calendar days to 45 days. In response, it was clarified that the extension was due to the actual functioning of labour dispute committees. As there are four labour dispute committees in Estonia, it is very difficult and costly to organise the departure sessions of labour dispute committees in different counties. In addition, it also took into account the existence of alternative procedural options, in particular the possibility of a written procedure to be created. This means that the time of the proceedings may, on average, be shortened rather than prolonged. Secondly, the selection of the co-chairs of the Labour Dispute Committee and their claims were asked. The reply noted that the current practice would continue. The difference is that the chairman of the Labour Dispute Committee is given the opportunity to update the list more frequently. This is currently possible once a year. The third question concerned the maximum amount of the written procedure, which is EUR 6400. The reply stated that it was established by analogy with the Code of Civil Procedure, without distinguishing between the main and the secondary requirements, taking into account only the total amount of the claim. The existence of such a limit was considered necessary as the written claims were dealt with by the chairman of the Labour Dispute Committee alone. The fourth question sought to find out what were the most serious conflicts with stakeholders during the drafting process and where it was most difficult to find a common section. It turned out that the issue of the length of employment status of the chairmen of the Labour Dispute Committees was the cause of the most controversy, whether they should be appointed for an indefinite period or for a fixed period. In addition, the chairman of the Labour Dispute Committee asked about the linking of the basic salary to the salary of the national conciliator, i.e. 90. 100% in the draft. This decision stems from regional specificities and different burdens. The sixth question concerned the adjournment of the sitting in camera. The reply said that 10/15 sessions per year were held in camera, mainly in relation to discrimination, health reasons or business secrets. The draft act allows for the holding of a sitting in camera, but in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure. The Commission then took procedural decisions, all of which were taken in a consensual manner. And these were: firstly, to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 12 April, secondly, to propose that the first reading be closed, thirdly, to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 working days, 27 April at 5.15 p.m., and to appoint Maris Lauri as rapporteur for the Commission. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-12_U193	Thank you. There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 407. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 407 amendments, including 27 April at 5.15 p.m. Dear Riigikogu, our session today is closed. Thanks, everybody! Closure of the sitting at 5.08 p.m.
