ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday of the 12th working week. Everyone now has the opportunity to hand over drafts and enquiries. There is no wish to transfer requests or enquiries, which is why we can go to the presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as presently absent 18 members of the Riigikogu. We can go to today's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two details of the agenda to pass on to you. Today's fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and, in connection with this, the amendment of other laws 519 and there is a presentation by Heljo Pikhof on behalf of the Committee on Culture. Today's fifth item is the first reading of the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 560, which will be presented on behalf of the initiator by Andres Metsoja, Member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U2	Let's go to today's agenda. The first item is the draft Act 523 on Enterprise Support and Amending the State Guarantee Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. We need a third reading, and at third reading, the representatives of the political groups will be able to negotiate. Do you have a wish to speak? No, it's not. So let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, can we go to the vote? There are no objections. I will put to the final vote draft law 523 amending the Law on Support for Business and Guarantee of Loans, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 82 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U3	The second item is the third reading of the draft Road Transport Act 488 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, would your representatives like to speak? There are no requests to speak. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Since it seems to me that no one has left the hall, we can go to the final vote. I will put to the final vote draft road transport law initiated by the Government of the Republic 488. Please take a stand and vote. There were 82 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U4	Today's third item is draft law 535 on ratification of the Final Acts of the 26th Congress of the Universal Postal Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Deniss Borodichi, member of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U5	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, largely because this is a draft law on ratification, no amendments have been received between the first and second readings, and therefore there was no debate in the Commission either. The Commission decided by consensus to propose a draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 19 December and then to hold a final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U6	Good waitress! Colleagues don't have any questions for you. Now it's time for a negotiation. There is no wish for negotiation. The Governing Commission's proposal is for a final vote. There were no amendments, so we can start preparing the final vote. Can we go to the final vote? There are no objections. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on draft Act 535 on the ratification of the Final Acts of the 26th Congress of the Universal Postal Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There were 73 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the draft, 5 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U7	The fourth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 519. I would like to present a speech chair to Heljo Pikhof, member of the Committee on Culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The Government of the Republic initiated a draft amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and related amendments to other laws on 27 September 2017. Its first reading took place on 19 October. The draft proposes to change the organisation and financing of learning for pupils with special educational needs. According to the draft, the organisation of basic education for pupils with special educational needs, i.e. students in need of support, is the task of the municipality. The state will continue to hold schools for students in need of support, but such schools may be handed over in agreement with the local government. According to the draft, the assessment of the need for enhanced support or special support for the student will take place in cooperation between the external counselling team and the school. In addition, there is a procedure governing the payment of public educational scholarships and awards to people working in educational establishments. By the deadline of 2 November, the Estonian Reform Party Group, the Estonian Free Party Group, members of the Riigikogu Helmen Kütt and Tiina Kangro and members of the Riigikogu Laine Randjärv, Liina Kersna, Heidy Purga and Yoko Alender submitted proposals. The Estonian Association of School Leaders, the Estonian Association of Logopedies, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the NGO Children's Protection Association and the Foundation Innove presented their views and suggestions. The joint positions and proposals were presented by the Estonian Association of Special Education Teachers, the Estonian Association of School Psychologists and the Estonian Association of Social Pedagogists. In addition to these, the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, the Estonian Teachers' Association, parents of children with special needs, the Helen School of Tallinn, Jüri Ginter and the Chancellor of Justice submitted their proposals or views. The Ministry of Education and Research presented 32 proposals to the Committee on Culture to amend the draft. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 6 November, the draft was discussed with representatives of the Association of Estonian Special Teachers, the Association of Estonian School Leaders, the Estonian Association of School Psychologists, the Estonian Association of Cities, the Estonian Association of Logopedies, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People, the Estonian Association of Social Pedagogies, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Innove Foundation. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture on 5 December, the amendments to the draft were discussed with the parents of children with special needs and representatives of the Estonian Teachers' Association. In total, the Commission discussed the draft eight times after its first reading and decided to make 26 amendments. In short, more important changes. Amendments 1, 3, 5, 28 and 29 concern the obligation to ensure access to basic education. The objective of the draft act to amend Paragraph 2 (4) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act is to lay down more clearly the obligation to ensure access to basic education. According to the draft, the local authority is unambiguously responsible for access to basic education for all children living on its territory, including children who are enhanced or need to be removed. However, this does not exclude the possibility for the state to continue to run schools in which students in need of support study. The Estonian Association of Rural Governments, the parents of the Estonian Chamber of Disabled People and children with special needs also considered it necessary that the state should establish and maintain schools aimed at pupils with special educational needs in order to better organise the education of pupils with special educational needs. The Committee on Culture was assured that the state will continue to maintain schools considered as special schools under the current law after the entry into force of the Act. It is possible that some special schools may be provided by the state on a voluntary basis to municipalities. As the state continues to maintain its schools, the bill does not result in an increase in the number of students who need support to study in municipal schools. On average, three students, 74% of whom need to be excluded, learn from four new regulations, i.e. at a school run by the municipality. Some other statistics: there are 39 schools for HEV students in Estonia, including 18 state schools with about 1400 students, 14 municipal schools with about 1,700 students and seven private schools with 160 students. Amendments 4 and 20 concern the post of assistant teacher. During the discussions of the Committee on Culture, there was a number of increases in the need for the institution of the assistant teacher to be regulated and for the assistant teacher to be part of the group of support specialists. This particular proposal was made by the Estonian Free Party Group. Amendments 9 and 10 concern the number of pupils in a special class. Originally, the bill included numbers, but the word 'generally' was also used, which meant that it was not specifically stated how many students could be in special classes. There is now a provision in the draft, which states that students receiving enhanced support can have a maximum of 12 pupils in the class and that the maximum number of students receiving support is six. The exact number of students will be decided by the Director on the basis of the nature of the special educational needs of students in the classroom and the recommendations of the student coordinator or external counselling team or all of them serving the school and special educational needs. For a period of one year, the number of students in a specific special class may also be increased on a proposal from the Director and with the agreement of the Board of Care. Amendments 12 to 17 and 32 concern the identification and implementation of the need for enhanced support and specific support. The Estonian Association of Municipalities and the parents of children with special needs did not agree that the Bill abolishes the concept of a student with special educational needs. That's the concept that was brought back into the bill. The responsibility of the schoolmaster for identifying the special educational needs of pupils and providing support was also highlighted. The draft states that it is primarily the task of teachers and parents to recognise the need for student support. It was considered necessary that only one administrative body, or advisory team, make recommendations for the implementation of the support. Currently, Innovel is known to be these teams across different regions of the country, but it will now be so that the advisory team can involve people from different regions. And what is important is that personal data can only be processed by the advice team to the extent necessary for the provision and implementation of the recommendation. One topic of discussion was whether personal data was protected. A parent's consent must certainly be required to use them. Amendment 19 concerns the municipal joint school. Even now, the municipalities are able to establish joint schools, but the amendment to § 61 (3) of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which regulates the creation, management and operation of schools administered jointly by the municipalities, was specifically included in the draft. It is possible to establish such joint schools by means of an administrative contract concluded between the municipalities or city councils under the authority of a municipality or city council. The proposal of the Committee on Culture to base the wording of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act on the same basis as the amendment to the Local Government Organisation Act, which will enter into force in the new year, means that one step is taken. In particular, the following year will be subject to amendments to the Local Government Organisation Act, which will regulate more specifically the establishment, management and general basis for the establishment of joint institutions by municipalities. Amendments 21 and 25 to 27 concern the remuneration of support specialists. The issue of support specialists was a very important issue in the Committee on Culture. Specific proposals were made by Laine Randjärv, Liina Kersna, Heidy Purga and Yoko Alender, as well as Tiina Kangro and Helmen Küttt. The aim of the amendments was, in particular, to ensure adequate remuneration for support professionals. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, support for the organisation of study and support services is paid according to the following scheme: The staff costs of a student who needs general support are calculated according to the rules in force and are supplemented by support services. A student in need of enhanced support is calculated in the case of basic education using a factor of 2, and in the case of general secondary education using a coefficient of 2.7. This is complemented by the State budget support to cover the cost of enhanced support, in other words support services, calculated using a coefficient of 1 for basic education and a coefficient of 1,7 for general secondary education. The staff costs of a student in need of special support are calculated in the case of basic education and general secondary education using a coefficient of 4, plus a public subsidy for the cost of enhanced support for both basic education and general secondary education. The coefficient to be used is also 4. The Estonian Association of Special Needs Educators, the Estonian Association of School Psychologists and the Estonian Association of Social Pedagogists consider that the minimum wage rate for support specialists must be the same as that for teachers. Whether it is a national designation or not, we did not currently sign up for the draft, but the draft gave different options for doing so. The Ministry of Education and Research explained that the draft provides additional support of EUR 6 million to municipalities for the implementation of enhanced and specific support. This money can also be used to pay the salaries of support specialists. It was also said that local governments have already allocated EUR 10.5 million to pay the salaries of support specialists. As a result of the honours, the Committee on Culture proposes that support for teachers' labour costs and for the implementation of enhanced and specific support should also be used to pay the salaries of support specialists, but only on condition that support specialists are guaranteed at least the same remuneration as the minimum wage for teachers. Amendments 22 and 23 concern the starting grant for teachers and support specialists. The proposal of the Committee on Culture is to grant the right to start-up support to teachers who are also employed in Tallinn and Tartu, who have met the conditions for obtaining the initial grant laid down in the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. This is not an option at this time. If we look at § 77 (2) of the current Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, it is not possible to receive the starting grant if you start working as a teacher in Tallinn or Tartu. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, it was pointed out several times that there are many fewer support specialists working on the recommendation in schools, and the proposal does not solve this problem. On this basis, the Committee on Culture also proposes the establishment of a starting grant for a support specialist, the amount of which will be established by the State Budget Act. The introduction of a starting grant will enhance the position of a national support specialist, which may give a new impetus to graduates of higher education to work at school as a logopaedic, special pedagogue, school psychologist or social pedagogue. EUR 830000 per year is the amount that the Ministry of Education and Research estimates should be allocated from the state budget for this purpose. In addition to support specialists' starting grant, the work of support specialists can be valued by means of educational scholarships and bonuses to be awarded to them. The Estonian Association of Logopaedics proposed that logo beets and other support specialists working in the school could also apply for a scholarship and that the award of educational awards would also extend to logopaedes and other support specialists. According to the Ministry of Education and Research, it is also planned to award educational scholarships and bonuses to support specialists. These were then the most important amendments to this draft. Since there were eight meetings of the Commission in total, it is not possible to read literally everything that someone said, what anyone meant at the moment. The place would be right, but time just doesn't allow it. I hope that when I answer the questions, I will be able to improve as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U9	Thank you, dear waitress. Before we go to the questions, if I may, let me make a little bit of a clarification. You mentioned that there were 26 amendments. There are, in fact, 36 amendments, aren't there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U10	Yes, 36 amendments are in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U11	Now let's get to the questions. The first word is Andres Ammas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U12	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! When discussing this draft, there has been repeated concern that support specialists for schools are not likely to be enough, either now or in the near future. It is a pleasure to hear about initial support and other measures, but there is currently also teacher initial support, but much of this money remains unused because there are simply no candidates. How is it possible to buy support specialists in schools, no matter how much money, if there are no people who would like to do professional work? This is one of the key issues of this draft. Please explain in more detail what the Commission sees as a solution to this problem. Where do these support professionals come from in schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U13	Thank you for your question. In the Commission, the issue of support specialists was discussed very closely. I remember very well, and it's also in our record that there are about 1600 support specialists on the educational network, but we need as much of you as we need. Of course, they don't come overnight. We already have an inclusive education since 2010, but very important things may have not been done in the meantime. Whether or not these people's wages: if we look at the average wage of support specialists in educational institutions, we will see that it is less than EUR 1000. But, of course, pay is one instrument that values the work of support specialists, but it's not the only thing to lure them into school. We also examined in the Commission why people who have gone to study as a support specialist are dropping it off. That, too, is a problem. We also discussed whether the country should take more steps to encourage the learning of support specialists. Perhaps special scholarships, etc. could be introduced. Today, unfortunately, many support professionals go to the medical system because they pay higher salaries and have more specific tasks. This was explained to us in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U14	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U15	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your review. These 18 public schools, which serve children with special needs, serve not one local government but a wider area. My question is: did you mention in the Commission how many local authorities are willing to take up schools for children with special needs to manage them and what is the motivation for local authorities to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U16	Yeah, we had that on the committee. If I'm not mistaken, then Thomas maybe specifies the Vaeküla school as one of them. There was some motivation, too, but it didn't quite make sense of what that motivation would be. But I'll give you an example of Tartu. I know that the Emajõgi school would be happy to run the town. Schools also want this because they want new buildings from the municipality, for example, and even better conditions. That's one way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U17	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U18	Thank you, President-in-Office. A good colleague as a waitress! The subject is very important, and this is also demonstrated by the public's response and attention, and in this Chamber, as well as the eight sessions of your committee, some of which are public. Thank you for your thorough presentation of the Commission's work. But I'm asking you to make a summary for us who are not on the Commission of the most important thing that will change in the organisation of students with special needs if we enforce this bill as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U19	There are several positive changes. First of all, I would like to say that there are problems in inclusive education and we will not solve them by enforcing this draft as a law. But there's a whole series of things that get better. For example, municipal schools, where children with special needs are studying, will receive operating support in addition to education support, which is very important. Private schools have received a number of grants, but now their operating support becomes available on the same basis as municipal schools. Operating support and education support move with a student, which is very important. Speaking of teachers' salary increases and operating grants, next year it will be 23 million. And there's another 6 million to hire support professionals and raise their wages. This, too, is very important. Operating grants may be used to raise wages if the salary is at least as high as the minimum wage of a schoolteacher. When we talk about support specialists, the most important thing for me is that we have reached the point that we believe that their pay must be at least the minimum of a schoolteacher. It's a step forward. I don't think that's enough, but in any case, a step forward. There will also be annual bonuses and life work bonuses for both support professionals and school teachers. As we know, teachers get awards at the teacher's day gala, but they don't get a financial bonus. The third measure is the basic payment. Andres Ammas pointed out earlier that much of the starting grant was not used. The same is true in medicine: a lot of money is not spent. But I still believe that some people still work in the education system. In my opinion, these are the most important measures. I cannot say that the whole Commission thinks so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U20	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U21	Thank you. Good waitress! I've been trying to figure out what's been going on with this bill. Would you, however, tell me why this law is needed? The more I listen now, the more I get the impression that the Committee on Culture and, in fact, the Minister of Industry are overproduction of laws. The law also seeks to write details that are essentially subject to implementing legislation and work organisation. You're saying we're gonna put it in the law, and that too. Would you be able to sum up what is really an important subject of this law? Why, in the end, do you even need this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U22	In fact, we have also had hearings and judgments on these issues. Today it is certain that it is now also specifically stated in the law that the local government is responsible for basic education. And regardless of what a student is studying in a municipality and whether he or she has special educational needs, needs enhanced support or is excluded, he or she is accompanied by an operating grant. It's very important. And this operating grant depends on the needs of a particular student. As I said before, in the case of enhanced support, the calculation is based on a factor of 1, in the case of basic education, 1.7 in the case of general secondary education. And if you're a student that needs to be eliminated, then the coefficient is 4.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U23	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U24	Thank you. Good waitress, you said in your speech that in addition to the parent, it is the teacher's duty to observe the child's special need. After this process, are you sure that Estonian teachers are ready for this? If they're not all ready for this, how much could there be?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U25	I guess a lot depends on the teacher. As you well remember, we also had the representatives of the Teachers' Association in the Commission who said that this is a slightly different subject, that not all teachers are ready or able to work with children with special needs. Let's just say that not all teachers are suitable to work with children with special needs. But if you're prepared to talk at all, teachers are also trained to deal with children with special needs. They have been given a wide range of knowledge. But as many people are ready for this kind of work, I can't really say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U26	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U27	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Here's the question. If there is a child with special educational needs, there must be two teachers in the class: a teacher and an assistant teacher. You're statistically 1,600 short. You're always talking about pay, money. But pay whatever money you want, if a person can't do the job, he can't do it. Scissors start flying in class. Extinguishers, dirty words, long-shots. How are teachers and fellow students protected during the period when you train more than 1600 specialists? Does inclusive education mean that the overall quality of our education is sacrificed for inclusive education of children with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U28	Thank you for your question. In fact, we already have inclusive education from 2010. Like I said, 74% of children with special needs are currently in regular school. Indeed, that is the way I am saying what was told in the Commission, that it is not always ready to deal with these children. It is also the concern of the local government that these students should be able, whenever possible, to study in a special class, in a smaller collective. However, if we take the matter on the other hand, then in the future these same people will be our co-workers, we must live with them, and they must also be given a chance. Much depends on the parents, where they put their children in school. At present, students are studying in special schools, which are only for children with special needs, with 2 to 3% of students.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U29	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U30	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! A large number of opinions, including non-consulting opinions, have been published in connection with this draft. The municipalities have raised questions relating to the amendment of § 2 (4). You have made this paragraph very vague in my opinion: 'In the light of a student's need, schools can be established and maintained for students who are enhanced or need to be eliminated. " There are questions about how such a school is run, how children are guaranteed to learn in such schools. The wording of the current PGS is clear. It has been said that the state guarantees the establishment and maintenance of schools for children with special educational needs, followed by a list of disabilities. Why has it been replaced by such ambiguity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U31	The Ministry of Education and Research justified this by ensuring that these schools could be transferred to the local government if the municipality had an interest. The management contract concerned would set out all the terms of the transfer. That's one reason. Of course, we have schools that are special schools for children with impaired vision or hearing. According to the Ministry of Education, these schools are not to be shut down; these centres of competence must remain. But let's see what happens. I believe our Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U32	Next thing you know, Krista Aru's gonna ask. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I've got one of your sentences in my ear. You said the teachers had been trained in this area. At the same time, we have received calls from the Teachers' Association and individual teachers in our mailbox, the content of which is that teachers have received very little of this training and that teachers are not prepared to add this burden. How did you now claim that teachers had been trained?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U34	Thank you, Krista, for the question. The teachers' claim was that they had been undertrained, but the Ministry of Education's claim was that they had been trained. These arguments are also set out in the minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U35	Heidy Purga, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U36	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, After all, this issue has been dealt with in previous ministerial times, and Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski, for example, was opposed to such a hasty change as a minister in this area. We do understand that the coalition can enforce the draft law and amendments by a majority in the Commission. But for what exactly have you and Toomas Jürgenstein been opposed to the general attitude of your party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U37	What do you say to that? In fact, when this draft came to the Committee on Culture, many things in it were something we did not agree with. But in the Committee on Culture, the bill has been greatly amended. I can say, in recognition of our minister, that he was always present in the Committee on Culture when we had the main debates, and he was also very well caught up in the amendments made by the opposition ambassadors. He thought along in every way, and as a result, the bill is much better now. And another good thing: in the meantime, a judgment came into force which laid down an important principle that the state would fund all children with special needs, regardless of the school in which they were studying.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U38	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U39	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I will continue with Mr Jürgen Ligi's question about what has now happened between two readings. For me, the key issue and concern for this draft is responsibility. Who is responsible for giving children with special needs the best education? In my opinion, the original bill only denied this responsibility to the local authorities. Now, between two readings, has the state taken a little bit of this responsibility as symbolically withdrawn? How do you assess this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U40	An important change born between two readings is, as I have already said, that the local government is responsible for basic education, and we are talking about children with special educational needs, but the state pays operating support and education support for teaching these children. And pays specifically to the school where a child with special needs attends. I can give an example of Tartu Herbert Masing School, where children with special needs study. This is a municipal school, which is now going to receive operating grants. In any case, this will help many municipal schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U41	Liina Kersna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U42	Thank you. At the beginning of the procedure for this draft, when there was a joint meeting between the Committee on Culture and the Social Affairs Committee, the director of the then College of Education in Maarja said that it was not actually possible to achieve good results in such a large mammoth school. There are children from very different backgrounds and special needs. There are addicts, there are sexually abused children, there are general violence experienced or seen by children etc. In fact, there should be smaller and more specific special schools. Did you in any way continue to discuss this issue in the Commission, or did it not come up further?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U43	Thank you for your question. We have a whole series of private schools that are smaller. But you were also on the Committee on Culture. I thought that was the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U44	Thomas Väinaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would answer Liina Kersna's question, which is the motivation of the municipalities to take over these schools. The municipality doesn't have to take them directly, but I'll explain it in the example of Lääne-Virumaa. A year ago, we had such a course to eliminate HEV children's schools and to disperse all children with special needs into primary schools. Why don't you think about what would happen if all these kids were pushed into middle schools? In schools for children with special needs, we have an extra-trained teacher contingent, they can handle these children. I give my example from my high school in Lääne-Virumaa. In the meantime, when the kids with special needs were in our school, they did hogs in classes and...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U46	Please ask me a question! Time's up. Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U47	I just wanted to say that the motivation is not to push these kids into normal primary schools. Special schools are necessary, there is a competent teacher contingent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U48	So I'm gonna answer the question I didn't ask. Before I started to wonder, and I can't remember who asked me what was going to change from the current situation. These kids don't change anything. After all, crack is an inclusive education. These children either attend municipal schools, private schools or public schools for children with special needs, and no one will force them into regular schools. The current problems need to be tackled gradually. This is what we found in the Committee on Culture. The problems faced by children with special educational needs, improving access to education for them, must be addressed gradually. Of course, it is also important to look after children who have to accompany hyperactive children in the normal class. We received a number of proposals on this from the various associations. I believe that we will definitely move on to this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U49	Good waitress, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U50	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U51	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable performer! Here's what I'm gonna ask. The main issue here is that there are special schools, be they state schools or municipal schools, but the problem in the country is often that there are one or two in small schools, at most three students who need special education. Was there any discussion in the Commission about how, if any, the question of teachers' pay has been resolved and how their training is even being done?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U52	Thank you for your question. If it is either enhanced support or the student in need, or the child with special needs according to the current wording, more support is provided for hiring teachers and support specialists. Of course it's a problem. One way is for the local government to send such a child, if he or she has a specific health problem, to learn somewhere nearby, where there are more such children and where there are also more teachers and support specialists with special knowledge. If this option is not available, the parent has the right to put the child in a school near home. That's a problem. I'm not arguing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U53	Yoko Alender, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U54	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! A comment for starters. You said the minister said that the teachers had been trained enough. As far as I know, the Ministry didn't say that. They did not know how many teachers had been trained, and they also said that training was unfortunately of very different levels. But now to the question. Has the Commission revealed in the course of the procedure the capacity of our country to implement this law? How many schools already have a support specialist?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U55	Thank you. As I have already said, we have inclusive education since 2010. In order to hire support specialists in schools, as well as to provide different services to students who need to be released or then enhanced support, significantly more money will be provided. As regards the existence of support specialists and other such topics, this concern remains in the air. However, the draft we are debating today is not specifically concerned with the questions that you have just asked.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U56	Heidy Purga, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At one of the last meetings of the Committee on Culture, at which we discussed this topic, there was also a representative of the parents of the children affected by the draft, in addition to the teachers' representation. These parents, to put it mildly, were not very satisfied with these legislative changes. In essence, they consider this to be more confusing than is the case with practical needs. Can you tell me if the state will apply any checklists when this law is passed and is convinced that all the preparation has been done in the best way? Is there some kind of surveillance? Will anyone stand up for the things that this bill is rushing through?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U58	We discussed this in the Commission and included supervisory sections in the draft. If today is supervised by the county government, then in the future, the Ministry of Education. Parents had a very legitimate question as to whether only documents were checked, whether only data from the EHIS were checked, or whether data from the EHIS were recorded in the EHIS, or whether they were still going on the ground and talking to experts, teachers, how access to education for a specific child is guaranteed, how its specific features are taken into account in school, etc. In fact, it was a very important subject. For parents, to be honest, transport was also a matter of concern. When we look at the PGS, it says that within a radius of three kilometres or one city where public transport exists, a child with reduced mobility does not need to be provided transport services. But how does a wheelchair kid get to school? Parents also told us that there was a large share of them. One of Pärnumaa's parents, who also had a child in a wheelchair, said that once the child reaches school, the entire municipality is driven through a school road too long for the child, going to school and leaving school takes a very long time. The question now is whether municipalities are really supporting children with reduced mobility as well as other children who cannot use public transport, so that family ownership is not high. For this purpose, an operating grant granted to municipalities to compensate for transport costs can also be used. I very much hope that children who need special transport to attend school will receive it free of charge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U59	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U60	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! I touch the questions that have been asked several times in this Chamber, for which I have not yet received a satisfactory answer. If practitioners state that they cannot implement the law because they do not have the necessary competence to do so and that they urgently need special training, how can the Commission submit a draft to the Riigikogu, which is obviously not applicable? Isn't that the result of another frying dish?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U61	Thank you for your question. We had two different opinions. The Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, with over 5,000 teachers, wrote that they were satisfied with the draft. The Estonian Teachers' Association wrote that they are not satisfied with the draft. Two competing connections, therefore. But the problems that they raised concern inclusive education in general, and your question also concerns inclusive education in general. As I have already said, 74% of students with special educational needs study in mainstream schools and do not want to change anything specifically in this respect. None of those in special school are gonna be in regular school. But there are really many problems in inclusive education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U62	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U63	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The size of the classes and groups of children with special needs has been left to the headmaster's discretion according to the new draft. In the past, the law was determined exactly how big they had to be. Unfortunately, there is no certainty that the headmasters have the skills to determine the right sizes. My question is: how many school leaders, school managers have attended training courses for children with special educational needs? And the other part of the question is even more important: how many schools have an effective support system? It's supposed to work everywhere. How many heads of school have been trained and how many schools have a support system that works?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U64	Thank you for your question. We didn't talk about attending school principal training at the committee. And the support systems are different in schools. I can't say exactly how many municipal and private schools have support specialists or how many use the Pathfinder, etc. In fact, it is the responsibility of the local government, the schoolmaster, to ensure the help of free support specialists. However, as regards the fact that the draft does not specify the size of the classes, it was precisely stated in the draft. At first, it was stated that there should normally not be more than 12 students in the class in need of enhanced support. The word 'generally' was taken away, so go to a specific rule: there must be no more than 12 children. In the case of special support, the maximum was six students. The headmaster, along with the board of trustees, may decide for a specific class that he will increase the number of children a year, but it is the board of trustees who will say their word here. And only for a year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U65	Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U66	Thank you. Upon entry into force of this draft law, there is a clause in the law that the Committee on Culture has approved that the possibility of acquiring basic education for school-mandatory children living in the municipality or city's administrative territory is guaranteed by the municipality or city, including, where appropriate, a private school holder or state. As legislator, please explain how the country can be involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U67	When we discussed this in the Commission, we found that the country could also assume this commitment. It's like a short answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U68	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U69	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here's the question. As a rule, children with special educational needs are very poor school attendance, and according to statistics, there are thousands of children on the street who no one knows anything about. Now, if we're going to make a legislative amendment and loosen it up, do you think this is how we can get HEV kids to go to school? And since we don't have a resource at the same time, a skilled workforce, we're putting the rest of the game at risk. Do you think we're going to lure HEV kids to school with this law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U70	Thank you for your question. I've told you this many times, but you weren't in the hall for a while. Currently, 74% of children with special educational needs are enrolled in mainstream schools. According to this bill, the number of children in regular school does not increase. As regards money, in the case of municipal schools, in addition to the education allowance, an operating grant shall be granted, calculated according to the child's special needs, either using a coefficient of 1 or 2 or 4. When we talk about support specialists, their lack is a fact. It is now, and it will remain after the adoption of this bill as a law. But I very much hope that the measures proposed in the draft will somehow attract support specialists to the school. It's like a step forward. But I don't know exactly what's going to happen. In the Commission, there was a debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U71	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U72	Thank you. In your response to Yoko Alender, you said that this is not a topic at all, how many teachers we have, how many specialists are available. In our mailboxes, there is a letter from the Teachers' Association, which first raises the unanswered question of how much has been dealt with this bottleneck in the first place. Would you still try to give a better answer? Do we have an overview of how much additional cash will actually help to improve the availability of the service from next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U73	Thank you for your question. You have also been Minister of Education, and you should know very well that we have had inclusive education for years. This bill doesn't change anything about it. You look surprised right now, but you've been the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U74	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U75	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Judging from a number of questions, the question remains what is the country's clearer objective. Is it simply a matter of transferring services to local governments in the shadow of giving money? The people affected by this service are anxious. In the case of a draft drawn up in such a hurry, they do not believe that this service will be better for them, especially as there has been a reform of the local government. A merger is ongoing, where harmonisation of services is one of the key issues. Distributing the tasks of this particular draft across Estonia as a whole is a very multifaceted process. Don't you have a certain fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U76	Are you thinking specifically about me or the Commission? It was, of course, discussed in the Commission that many local authorities have now joined, that large municipalities have formed and that it is the right time to implement this draft. But the Commission decided that we would still send the draft to this hall and let the hall decide whether or not the time is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U77	Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U78	Thank you. Let me ask you about another change. In the current law, a child with special educational needs has been defined quite specifically and clearly so that everyone can understand who we are talking about when we talk about the education of children with special needs. The idea was to erase all such terms from the law, but on my insistence, it is now, as if in reverse form, back in the law. The term is defined as a child becoming a child with special needs from the moment the advice team has assigned him or her special support or enhanced support. How can it be that a child is not a child of special need until a decision is made on paper? How's he gonna turn into one?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U79	You are probably talking about the fact that if a child has needed general support, but this has not helped, then an extracurricular counseling team will be given a decision as to whether he or she would need to be eliminated or enhanced, whether more measures would be needed if he or she had been put in place so far, so that the child could be able to cope in school. However, these are special cases. In general, the child goes to an extracurricular counseling board when teachers or parents have announced that the child has a special need. The Commission will then examine whether or not there is a specific need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U80	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U81	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At first, I'll just mention in the remark procedure that Jürgen Ligi may have been a minister, but you have to answer the questions. The previous work of a member of the Riigikogu has nothing to do with replying to him. I think the answers are interesting to everyone. But now my question. Monika Haukanõm has already asked how many schools have set up a support system, how many school leaders have completed training courses for HEV children and how many schools have the competence to deal with HEV students. Instead, you spoke about the maximum size of the classes, you did not answer the question specifically. I ask Monika's question again: how many schools have a support system been created and how many schools have teachers who can teach HEV students?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U82	Thank you for your question. The first part of Monika's question concerned an issue that I also answered. When it comes to teachers and other professionals who should have received the relevant training, we did not talk about this in the Commission by naming specific figures.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U83	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U84	Thank you. Dear waitress, In answering a number of questions, you stressed that we already have the principle of inclusive education since 2010. Totally agrees, PGS is really valid since 2010. But that's what worries us that in the seven years that this principle has been in force, we haven't actually been able to implement it. Now we have a few weeks before the new law comes into force. How can we implement it? After all, we are taking a long step forward from the regulation of 2010. Do we have the assurance that we will not, however, make small human trials with this law? We throw some teachers, support specialists, and parents into the water. Maybe we should wait a little while to implement it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U85	Thank you, Monika! I agree with you a hundred percent. The principle of inclusive education is valid from 2010. I want to assure you that the situation of these children will not change. I have said here several times, 74% of children with special needs are already in regular schools and do not come to regular schools because of this law. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U86	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U87	Thank you. I'm going back to my first question. Can I conclude from your reply that the Members of the Commission did not consider it necessary to discuss at all at the Commission meeting how good it is for schools to be prepared in terms of the number of teachers who have completed special training, as well as for school leaders and school holders? Is this really an irrelevant issue that you did not think it was necessary to pay attention to?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U88	Thank you, Honourable Asker. Of course, we discussed this, but not by naming specific numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U89	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U90	Thank you, manager. Dear waitress, You are well aware of this bill, and that is why I want to move away from the second reading format a little bit. It is known that Estonia does not discover America at all to solve the problems of students with special educational needs. Would you be so kind as to compare Estonia's situation with that of Finland? In Finland, this issue has been dealt with further and the drought of support specialists is also a fact. The lack of logo beets, for example, is a major problem in Finland. Secondly, what would you propose to the organisers of higher education who should solve this problem? At the moment, it seems that the only measure is to give some money to people who are already working.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U91	Thank you for your question. What is the situation in Finland, how in Estonia, we did not specifically discuss this in the Commission. But what can be suggested to higher education providers? We discussed this: the state could order more training for support specialists. At the same time, it also turned out that if young people were going to learn it, many would stop studying. So close your beak, open your tail.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U92	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U93	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! My question is about Mr Madison's question about the supervision of teachers. Indeed, this issue was discussed in the Commission, and we also asked more specific questions. Can you tell me why the minister slipped over it like that, Heljo? Did it seem to you that there was a plan or a vision to support those teachers who have to work hard to implement the concept of inclusive education? We have been to the Commission by representatives of teachers who are extremely dissatisfied and who have said that money is one thing, but the other is their skills, their support, and their psychological support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U94	I tracked down that protocol to check what Mailis Reps had answered. I'm gonna check right here, I can't quite remember it from my head. Margit Timakov and Astrid Sildnik spoke on behalf of the teachers, and I stress once again that this was about inclusive education in general. This was not specifically related to this draft; it has been a long time ago. Margit Timakov said that there was no concrete and systemic strategic plan to ensure that teachers and schools were prepared, that this was an educational risk to the state and that despite the large additional money, the consequences could be serious. In fact, the bill had changed since then and he did not know all these changes. He admitted it himself. But he said that many teachers are not prepared to participate in inclusive teaching. Astrid Sildnik stressed that it was not easy for a regular teacher to cope with students with special educational needs. Mailis Reps replied that the aim of this draft was not to change the principle of inclusive education and that there would continue to be a choice of class, special class, small class and individual learning. The Minister agreed with the problem raised by the teachers that parents have the right to put a child with special needs in a school near their home. Schools and teachers are often required because not every school can give it to parents because there are few specialists. Hopefully, the extra money will help teachers to get more specialists to do their own teaching. With all these practical arrangements in mind, efforts have been made to meet the wishes expressed by special needs teachers and schools. This draft does not change the concept of inclusive education; it is a desire to create additional funding and support.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U95	Thank you. I have a short question. You said that 1600 support specialists are currently missing in Estonia. My question is as follows. Politicians are also expected to have such "visionary powers," especially if they are rapporteurs from the Commission. What year do you think this problem will be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U96	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U97	Do you mean the principle of inclusive education?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U98	I mean, the drought of the support specialists. 1,600 people are missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U99	Well, that's what Innove's representative said. He said we have 1,600 support specialists now, and we need as much of you as we need. It's a more precise expression. However, as far as the support specialists are concerned, many of them have been working under pressure. Now municipalities have joined, and since many specialists are going to work full-time in schools, perhaps this drought will in some way decrease. But I don't dare be a visionary in this respect, unfortunately, that's the way it is. We have a lot of problems. Many schoolteachers are already in retirement, young people are not coming, etc. We've got problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U100	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U101	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur from the Commission. This bill will create a new situation. There are misunderstandings that are not prepared by municipalities, schools, teachers or parents. There are no support specialists. Please tell me why it is necessary to rush this bill in such a hurry.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U102	As I have said many times, when we talk about the lack of support specialists, this has long been a problem of inclusive education. Inclusive education has been in place since 2010. I repeat, the support specialists' problem has always been a problem, and we want to solve it in some way. There are a number of proposals that we have put into the draft, as far as the minds of the Members of the Commission are concerned. The minister also came along in every way. Actually, these are proposals, I think, pretty good, but when we can end this drought, I can't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U103	Thank you. I'm still coming back to my point. In fact, the representatives of teachers and parents in the Commission spoke about inclusive education in general. There was no response to the supervision of teachers, their special training and psychological assistance, and this draft does not deal with it. Once upon a time, during the time of Minister Aaviksoo, the system of support specialists was actually broken. In the example of Tartu, I can say that we had this pretty well prepared, but moving all this money back and forth to local governments, though to the state, and the creation of the system of the Pathfinder has ruined this system and the teachers are not receiving support. When will this supervision be dealt with?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U104	Please, Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U105	Thank you for your question. I agree with you that this system has been broken. Tartu was a municipality that paid the support specialists the money on-going, and this amount was 800000 or 900000 euros. Our students didn't suffer directly from it, but the city budget did. I also agree that the Pathfinder Centres system may not be the most appropriate solution. Good support specialists went somewhere, and schools have suffered as a result. But about the supervision of teachers, I don't know what to say, you have to ask the Minister of Education. I'm not going to deal with this directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U106	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U107	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! You have repeatedly argued here that nothing big will actually change under this bill. But there's a lot that's gonna change. The purpose of the draft is to give the parent the opportunity to take his or her child out of a special school and to put him or her in the regular school of his or her place of residence. But who and how can guarantee that a particular school has the necessary preparation and support structure? If it doesn't exist, the school's everyday life will change completely. What opportunities do schools and other parents have to protect their children's learning environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U108	Thank you for your question. As regards the right of a parent to put a child with special needs in a regular school near home, he can also do so under the current law. There is no change in that regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U109	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U110	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. The question concerns local authorities. Are the different needs of specific regions also taken into account when calculating the operating costs of local authorities? After all, there are different numbers of children with special educational needs in different regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U111	Thank you, that is a very relevant question. The specific needs of specific children shall be taken into account. Account will be taken of whether someone needs enhanced support or is expelled, and a certain coefficient will be used to determine the amount of operating support and education allowance to be granted to municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U112	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U113	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday, Eiki Nestor set up Jüri Jaanson with such a remark that you have been in opposition for a year, but you still don't know how many questions you can ask. As if Jüri's training in the area of the Rules of Procedure was an appropriate factor. Right now I was set by Heljo Pikhof, also the sots, saying that I really shouldn't ask because I've been a minister. But my problem is that I have been a minister, but I am not a member of the Committee on Culture, and so I really want to know why this law is needed. Now I have confirmation of my conscience of why this bill has come up. Point one: the reason is the slogan of the Mailis Reps and the Centre Party 'Let's do it differently! '. No need to think. The second principle is that we give extra money, and there is no need to think again. This contradiction is actually reflected in each response. We really don't understand how a new minister can come along, just mess up the system and show himself as a big player, hoping to pour cash over the ruins of the system. Luckily, something's changed since then. I also tried to get an answer that's exactly changed and improved. Deus ex machina has been tried and given one answer: the state must be responsible for the HEV children. I am not familiar with all the judgments, maybe there has been another thing, but that was one reason why I could not make a final decision in my annual term of office as Minister of Education. But I had this feeling that HEV kids had to be in charge of a separate country. I apologise for not being able to deal with this issue enough. But I'm not gonna accept pointing fingers like that. One of the rules of society is that people with special needs, even the weakest, will be able to grow in society's wealth and wisdom, precisely as wealth and wisdom grow! be treated better. In this sense, it is a legitimate process in which every minister does not need to be pointed at individually. My attention, both socio-political and educational, has always been focused not on universal but precisely on special treatment. In this sense, I'm fine with the concept that we're going to do one bow, including a financial bow, to the weakest, deeper than the average bow. But the whole time I've known it wasn't that easy. When I was in that line of work, they threw it on my nose all the time. However, it is not easy because money may not be able to eliminate bottle necks. We need to think, we need to plan. The country's responsibility for the HEVs is likely to come. I really don't have any results to show you, but I can still describe it here on the remote. Forgive me! The new minister first confused my mind with the great declaration that he believed there was a need to place greater responsibility on the municipalities. This is exactly the opposite direction, after all! However, the judgment also said that the state, children with special needs, is actually your responsibility. Now this is the answer, and I think it is clear from this moment on that this bill is unnecessary. And if you listen to what the changes are going to be, read these new paragraphs, then after the horror feeling, what the Committee on Culture is doing!? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U114	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U115	Why must there be endless details at law level, which are really the subject of implementing acts of the executive power or simply the organisation of the executive power? These are not the classic sections of the law you have added. I already saw the same PGS problem during my term of office. Why do you have to rigidly write everything into the law and discuss plans with people who aren't really up to date and then tell those who are really up to date, "Where were you before?" I've been told you've been in opposition for a year, you were the minister you were asking for. The content of this draft is not really the subject of the law. Think a little about the problem of overproduction of laws in the field of education, there is a great deal of it! The earlier logic of the system was precisely based on the neck of the bottle. We can call down the Pathfinder centers and criticize that they do not work, but the fact is that there is still a great deal of resources to teach children with special needs. The Committee on Culture would have to deal with this plan and, in replying here, we could have admitted that we really do not have a plan yet. Maybe we should start the other way around. Just doesn't help to put the money on, hitting the system with a hammer doesn't help. We still have the same problems that existed during the previous ministerial period. Where is this particular plan, how much will it take to solve this $20 million? No, we're not talking about specific numbers! We were talking about 20 million, because that's the whole point of the bill: let's do it differently and give more money. And it's known that 20 million were negotiated by the government. I will now refer once again to the letter that I mentioned in my questions. It's crawling with the same questions it was before. One question, in my opinion, has now proved redundant, has in the meantime been resolved, but the rest are still in force. The overall impression is that when discussing the problems of inclusive education, we have not involved the people who have to deal with it. Teachers continue to bear the basic burden, and support workers are occasional aids, albeit on a regular basis, but this assistance is occasional. Most of the time the teacher has to deal with the HEV child. The Teachers' Association says we're not being spoken to. The same questions are in the air at second reading. How can it be that the Riigikogu goes from reading the bill to reading and nothing happens? It is because there is political will: we will do it differently and we will give more money. There's no money, but we'll give it more. That's a terrible shame. The building of the system must still not go like this, on the level of political slogans. It's a good thing the court came to help, but now the mind can come to help. We would now interrupt reading this bill and make a serious analysis of whether hammer punches and coin ringing are enough to ensure that the political slogans help to treat children with special needs properly. I admit, my debt, the debt of the whole of society in this area is, but the solutions proposed unfortunately do not allow the debt to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, if you say in the run-up to the negotiating report that you want more time, please give the President of the sitting an opportunity to fix that time. Maybe you guys wouldn't want another three minutes, but maybe one minute or two minutes. I, then, as the chair of the sitting, will arrange for my assistant to do so. But it is not a setup, Mr Jürgen Ligi, but just a friendly note. Please, Tiina Kangro!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U117	I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U118	Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said here today, but I'll add a few more details. Indeed, very strange things happen in the Riigikogu. It has been a very big surprise to me how easy it is for the Ministry and the Minister to drive members of the Riigikogu away. When the same bill began to be dealt with, it was ready to deal with the matter and take it seriously. The provisions of the original draft were hostile to both disabled children and healthy children. But what happened? Hence a good recipe for members of the government: if you want to go through your plans, the goals of which may be somewhere else, then do such a trick to write a completely absurd bill and later accept some improvements. Members of the Riigikogu, at least the majority of the members of the Committee on Culture, will fall into complete hack and start to praise you, praise you and call you a miracle worker, because you have worked a lot out of the draft at the beginning, then put something back with your finger, but in the end, you are a big player. I've been told you made a lot of noise, too, and you got a lot of noise. Mailis Reps has agreed to make some changes, to be happy about what else you want. I still think that this bill is not worthy of the Estonian Riigikogu and does not bring us a better future. I have told my colleagues, including those of the Committee on Culture, that I understand that not everyone has mastered the subject of this draft, and obviously not all of them have read the draft and their explanatory notes carefully, but do a little gesture, print out the current law and put it on the table, then print out the original draft and put it on the table, and then put the amended draft next to them and compare them. Then you will understand that you are being traded for fraud. In addition to the smoke cover we've been dealing with here for an hour or a half, with little nuances about how it is or how it isn't, or what's going to be better or worse in the law, we actually have a couple of fundamental problems. Jürgen Ligi said he didn't understand the purpose of the bill. In fact, it is quite clear what this goal is. It turns out that through the back door, the Ministry and its assistant also the Committee on Culture are engaged in constitutional changes. Through the back door, there is an attempt to change the principle that education is essentially the responsibility of the state. The second reading explanatory memorandum now states this: 'The position of the Committee on Culture is that the organisation of all basic education education, including the organisation of pupils who need support, is a self-governing task supported by the state. " So the essential task of the state has become support. The purpose is determined by the means. In the case of support, it is good that you can support with a fingertip or simply with an amount that suits you. However, when we talk about the responsibility of the state, this means that the costs that are essential to dealing with the target group must be covered. This is where we actually get to the reason why this bill was ever born. Who is familiar with this, they know that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Social Affairs have really had a plan to reform the organisation of education for children with special needs, including children with lasting disabilities, but the working group has come to the conclusion that this can be done in correlation with changes in the social system, changes in health centres, etc. The idea was that these changes could take place in 2019 and 2020. Why was all of this suddenly triggered? Of course, because of the very judicial decisions that began to repeat. There was a cumbersome obligation for the country. In fact, organising the education of children with special needs is the responsibility of the state and the courts began to give the municipalities the right to receive a resource from the state. What did the State or Ministry do? You know how you say you're not human, no problem. It was decided to solve the problem by removing responsibility from the state and placing it on local governments. Then they can no longer demand anything from the state. Let us hope there is no one left to doubt that this was the starting point from which this bill was born. And now these money games. In fact, it's not like we're sowing money, either. It's like a game of deception. These money games are a trick! The PR campaign of this amendment to the law has massively claimed that schools are hit by generous amounts of money when the bill is adopted. Tens of millions are spoken of, and the impression is that these tens of millions may still be added up, receiving enormous sums. But in fact, it is largely about replacing the money spent so far by local governments. Even today, disabled children do not study in schools for disabled children under a tree. They have a roof above them, their houses are warm, their teachers and support specialists working with them. As the state covers the costs of children's education, it is reasonable in itself, and so have the courts' decisions shown that this should be the case. But the fact that local governments are now replacing their spending with state budget money does not mean doubling the amount of money. Thirdly, I want to talk about inclusion and why I remembered the year 2014 in connection with this draft when the Employment Capacity Allowance Act was passed, which we are still repairing here every day. I have a feeling that the same fate may befall this bill if it is enforced in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U120	Please, Yoko Alender!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U121	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but I do not yet have the professionalism of my colleague, Mrs Near, to make the speech she had, but I will try to shed some light on my understanding of this bill. From the beginning, it appeared that the Minister of Education had a firm plan to channel around 20 million euros to the municipalities. Whether this money is going to be used to create equal opportunities or to create inequality because of the different capacities of different municipalities or because of something third is, I would say, still unclear. This is unfortunately also after the presentation by the Commission representative. Uniformity school and inclusive education are interlinked and, in my opinion, both the right principles. It is like a social agreement, the basis of policies on which the people of Estonia rely, trusting the state sector, knowing that the child gets the best start for life from kindergarten and school. These are the right principles. All the more surprising and disturbing is the situation in which we are dealing with both the draft private school law and the amendments to the PGS that we are discussing today on the basis of the opposite principles. It's like we're making concessions to the principle of convergence school. Public money is the final amount and the funding of private schools is currently preferred. As far as private schools are concerned, the state assumes responsibility, as far as children with special educational needs are concerned, it will further disperse between local governments, foundations and the state, without dealing with the actual bottleneck, which is a lack of preparation for teachers. The real job isn't done. We've been talking a lot about responsibility here today. The public sector is one, but we are not dealing with the problem, and that is the biggest problem. What about the availability of support staff and the willingness and ability of school leaders to see and train all children according to their needs? With inclusive education, we are only halfway there. As a society, we begin to realise that everyone is important, every chain as strong as its weakest link. We do not want to hide other people, but we want to offer everyone equal opportunities as a country. In the Constitution we have stated that the decisive word for choosing a school is that a parent has a state that cannot direct a child to one or another special school. On the other hand, the state has been responsible for the education of children with special needs on the basis of the current law. At present, however, parents, teachers, school psychologists, support specialists, logos and assistant teachers of children with special needs as well as other children, are all faced with a situation where there is no belief that action is based on a common and universally understandable plan that really leads to the goal. The situation is such that the number of children with special needs is constantly increasing, additional expectations and demands are added to school staff, but competence, internal cooperation and self-confidence are generally not added at the same rate. As a result of the intervention of specialists and interest groups, much has been reversed from the original draft proposed by the Minister to date, as has been mentioned here. Something has changed, but the main thing has not been done. There is no plan and there is no answer to the question of what is the preparation of local governments as school managers, school leaders as team leaders and immediate responsible and teachers as real workers for change and, if this is not enough, how to achieve what is planned. With the money to be transferred, the local authority can in principle also pay the costs already incurred by transferring the additional funds generated. The draft does not provide assurance that there will be a qualitative change in the organisation of education for children with special needs. Rather, the future fate of children with special needs will depend even more on the attitude of the local government, the personality and competence of the school manager. An executive edition of the Constitution this year says: 'Everyone has the right to education regardless of his or her special needs. Today's education law is based on the principle of inclusive education, i.e. children with special needs should ideally learn along with so-called ordinary children. However, for real implementation to take place, it requires significant positive steps by the country, starting with teacher training and sufficient numbers. ' Can I have an extra three minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U122	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U123	Thank you. Why does the Minister of Education not listen to this recommendation, but rush forward with a strong desire to give money to the municipalities? Why does he not do so purposefully and with the parties on the basis of a plan? The Reform Party Group is also prepared to contribute to making this draft really work so that, with the extra money to be spent on education, the organisation of children with special needs really starts to offer equal opportunities. So far, there has been a burst of dissatisfaction, uncertainty and the feeling that no one really knows what is going on at school. How much longer can we hold on? When the state prepares laws in this way, it is extremely worrying because the outward appearance is pretty, but the essence of the work is incomplete, so wrote one teacher to us. How many teachers in Estonian schools have received training to support the development of children with special educational needs? We didn't get an answer. What is the real need for money to support general support, enhanced support and education for pupils in need? What is the national strategic plan for inclusive education for the future? What is the plan for implementing inclusive education in support of schools and students? What are the educational materials and trainings? Where is the collection of good practices in the country? When will a system of co-vision and supervision be implemented as a mechanism for supporting teachers? What is the country doing specifically for this? Is it possible to apply for money once the system has been developed? Where can you apply for money to develop and implement a system that supports teachers? Those were teacher questions. However, thanks to the strong intervention of interest groups, the light has started to shine on the real bottlenecks and bottlenecks. So let us not give up, but stop reading it and come back to the hall when there is a common sense of certainty that we know what we are doing and why, when we all have the certainty that we are fulfilling our obligation to create a level playing field for everyone in the new law! In the case of the Riigikogu and the Minister of Education, the poorly done part of the work is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U124	The negotiations will continue with Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable representatives of the people! With this bill, we have so that its aim is very simple: we give money and see what happens. We are lacking all kinds of impact analyses and, despite a number of questions in the Committee on Culture, we did not get a clear answer from the Ministry on the number of teachers who have received ongoing training in inclusive education at all. We were really told that there were, but we didn't know what it meant. And that's why we shouldn't rush this bill. Education is an area where, however, the most important thing is a teacher, a child or a teacher. And we have excluded the teacher during the debate on this bill. We have talked about support professionals and an association of educators, but we have left aside the teacher of the person who is in the class every day, on whom the ability of both the rooster and a very talented and good child to get a good education depends. We haven't listened to the teacher, let's face it! I can talk about this here with a perfectly clear conscience, because I voted against this draft in the Commission as well. And we have not listened to the opinion of the support specialists. Well, we listened to them, but we didn't. We engaged, like all 28 organisations, parents and all kinds of larger and smaller units, but we have taken very little account of the proposals. True, some concepts, such as the concept of assistant teachers, were put back into the draft, while leaving open the rights and obligations of assistant teachers. Where I find these people, I don't touch them at all. Let's go, support professionals. The support specialist's starting grant was introduced by the Committee on Culture, but once again there is a question of where to take these support specialists. We didn't get any answers to that. It is precisely these fundamental matters that we should continue to deal with. In order for the law to put all the responsibility for the education of children with special needs on the hands of the municipalities, we have no right. On the basis of what I said in the Commission, unfortunately I was left alone there, but it is okay that we have supporters in this Chamber, the Free Party Group proposes to interrupt reading this draft. It is not clear to us what the effect of this law would be. This leaves the solutions incomplete, overshadowing all the actual necks of the bottle with a money cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U126	The provisions of the draft law continue to be discussed by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U127	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I will continue on the subject of a good previous speaker: indeed, the tragedy of this bill was expressed in a remarkably respectable waitress in a sentence said today: 'Let's see what happens. " At the same time, I do not want to tempt a respected waitress over this sentence. I know what he was gonna say: we can't predict everything, all the consequences, all the results. But in fact, this sentence reflects a great deal about the mentality of the current government. There is no need for plans to be drawn up before draft legislation is drawn up; no longer preparation is required. Let's do it! If we've given an election pass, perhaps sometimes with ease, then let's bang, boys! This is a very deplorable and very dangerous attitude. I repeat the point of Tiina Kangro and Jürgen Ligi: this is a matter of responsibility. And that is not an empty word for this bill. The state should not give up responsibility for the education of children with special needs. This is about responsibility and the readiness of local governments and schools. Of course, local authorities always want more money for whatever it takes. This has been the case for years, perhaps decades, but I am not sure that there is always a sense of responsibility for making the best use of the money received. Some clever headmaster might be happy that we got more money and now quietly do some of the necessary repairs at school. The pretext is that this will improve the situation of children with special needs. Sometimes we do a few things as a rake, and life gets more beautiful in our school or local government. But whether a particular child gets help may not be certain. It has also been stressed today that no matter how much money it is not possible to attract support specialists to school if they are not there. If, for example, our debate is currently following a logo beet online, please go to work in Haapsalu and you will immediately be paid EUR 1 500! You've been welcome there for a year and a half, go! It is not always about money. It was saddened that neither today nor other discussions on the subject, nor the articles, had there been any reading of what HTM had planned to do to ensure that there would be more support specialists in the future. There has also been talk today about teachers' lack of readiness. Maybe as one of the few in this Chamber, I can confirm the validity of this fact because I've been through all this. Well, we all know that there is a shortage of teachers at Estonian school. We've been warned that in ten years the system could crash. Today, the Estonian school is maintained by teachers of my generation, over 50s, soon to be 60s. When they retire, the idea of our extremely good school system quickly collapses. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U128	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U129	However, the fact is that the same generation that I belong to as a teacher has not been trained to work with children with special needs. There was no such education at the university during the Soviet period, and some subsequent casual training does not compensate for it. I had taught in regular school before 30 years, and then my life took me to work for two years at a school for children with special needs, where I saw that there was nothing to do with those last 30 years. I learned with these children every day how to handle them, how to get to them. And if someone had told me before that Andres, you couldn't have given three children with special needs a singing lesson, because it's just physically and technically impossible, I wouldn't have believed it. I've experienced how much special needs may be. Unfortunately, I don't see the Ministry of Education and Research's plan for teachers of ordinary schools to create this readiness. These teachers may also be completely in danger if they do not have appropriate preparation. But, as far as I know, the Committee on Culture has put a draft of teachers' rights under discussion. These things should go together. The quality of education, especially for these children, should be primarily the responsibility of the state and then the local government. Money alone doesn't solve all these problems. Together with many of my colleagues, I do not see the slightest justification for the haste and the rabbi that is currently taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U130	Please, Liina Kersna!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U131	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, For all decisions that concern children, we should ask ourselves and the public, before making decisions, whether one or the other decision will increase the well-being of the children. And if we can respond in peace of heart that yes, this decision increases the well - being of children, then we can also make that decision in peace of heart. However, if uncertainty arises, if there are doubts, or if we are willing to answer no, we should not make a decision. How would we answer this question with regard to the current draft? I feel insecure, and I tend to say no. Why? I am not sure that our schools are prepared to implement this law in general. Have you heard the saying that a happy teacher is changing the world? This is the title of a book published in England, which, in my opinion, bears a very deep point. A satisfied and confident teacher shares a vital sense of security for children to learn. Studies also show that if a student has a warm relationship with a teacher, the child learns better. When a teacher is stressed, children are also stressed. In this case, only education is played and, on the other hand, education is acquired. Psychologists have said that fear, pain, or unmet need is the cause of troubled behavior. To help a child, we need to reach out to the causes of the problem. Often, there is an unconscious learning difficulty behind a child's troubled behavior. As a rule, it is the teacher who notices the child's concern first. But even if the teacher has the knowledge and skills to help the child, he certainly does not have the time to reach the cause of the child's problem. This requires a professional support team. Currently, only 38% of schools have a school psychologist in office. It is no secret that there is a huge shortage of special needs teachers, social pedagogues, school psychologists and logopaedics in educational establishments. And those who work at school have a huge burden. Now think of the role of a teacher who stands before the 30-year-old class. We know that on average a third of the student population needs to be eliminated in one way or another. Teachers' responsibility for teaching children with special needs is still particularly high, as mistakes made in ignorance can have serious harm to the child. Teaching children with special needs requires very specific and specific knowledge and skills. But most of our teachers have not been given this knowledge. 75% of teachers estimate that they need further training in this area. It's not just a thought exercise. This is the everyday life of many teachers. Does such a teacher feel well and confident in doing his work and be able to instill in students an inspiration? I don't think so. And that's not a reproach. The teacher burnout is a big problem already. We must not leave teachers in the classroom alone with our concerns. The Teachers' Association has proposed nine concrete ways to support teachers in implementing inclusive education. I'll get some. Firstly, the hourly workload of teachers working with HEV students should be reduced, which should remain within a maximum of 18 contact hours. Secondly, there is the need to ensure systematic training of teachers to deal with HEV children. Thirdly, assistant teachers should undergo pedagogical refresher training. Fourthly, it must be ensured that the teacher has adequate medical and pedagogical information to support each student. And fifthly, this is perhaps one of the most important proposals, and teachers must be provided with psychological support and counselling. People whose work is to help other people tend to burn out more easily. Such people are also teachers. So if we want our children to be smart and happy at school, we need to value and maintain teachers. In the case of teachers, we should not ask whether the teacher's cup is half empty or half full. The teacher's cup must be full. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U132	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U133	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In the last two hours, it has probably occurred to all of us that we have an inclusive education since 2010. Since then, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is in force, which provides for an inclusive educational organisation in Estonia as the guiding principle of the organisation of education. We already know that in our sleep. But do we know what that means? Do we know that this is based primarily on an ethical approach that requires each child to be able to study at a school close to home, along with other students of his or her own age? In the seven years that we have implemented the principle of inclusive education, the situation has not exponentially improved. Yes, we report that 74% of students with special educational needs are already in regular school. Deal! But is 26% a large number or a small number? That's what we're arguing about here. 26% of those who are not yet in regular school and who, in view of this principle, should start attending a regular school close to their home are likely to have more difficult special needs and require more support. Are we ready for all this? Undoubtedly, this is the right approach as a principle and the recognition and support of students with special educational needs has gained increasing attention in Estonia. However, research shows what? They show that the principle of inclusive education is hampered both by the attitudes and knowledge of society, as well as by the insufficient resources needed to implement support measures. This is the subject of the main dispute here today. Are we ready to move to inclusive education in the manner and volume planned by law, in a timetable such as the general implementation of the law, and the deadline is 1 January 2018? There are three questions that need answers before we can enforce the law. I will touch them very briefly. The first question is money. It is understandable that municipalities support the adoption of this bill because we are talking about money. Money is often a magic wand for us, but it does not solve problems and does not guarantee the implementation of the law, even if the four coefficients are used. Let me give you an example. According to the bill, the financing of pupils with special educational needs does not depend on the type, size or curriculum of the class. Such funding does not take into account the needs of specific classes and individual training. According to experience so far, special classes have been smaller than normal classes. After all, we also have students who need to receive individual training to deal with them separately. Clearly, the smaller the class, the more money and other resources are needed to teach children. I do not have a certain belief that every municipality or city is capable of providing individual learning. Secondly, support services and accessible school environment. I am talking about these supporting services, which are not directly part of education. I am talking about the services provided by the municipality, be it social transport to the school, personal assistant, sponsor. Unfortunately, these services are not available in the same way and of the same quality in every municipality throughout Estonia. Yes, I agree that for most children, normal access and regular school arrangements are sufficient. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U134	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U135	But if we apply the principle of inclusive education, then wheelchair children and children who move in a difficult way, hearing impaired, including deaf people, as well as partially sighted children, including blind children, as well as children with composite disabilities, will also come to regular schools. Are our schools ready and adapted? I am not only referring to the physical environment here, but also to whether we have the necessary educational material at school, such as the tactical maps and the tactical globe for blind children, in order to understand this world. I am already hearing the answer to my comments from the creators and advocates of the bill: 'This is not the question of this bill, why are you saying this now? ' Of course not! But it's a whole thing. It is like a puzzle that needs to be put together to achieve the goal, i.e. to implement the principle of inclusive education. These pieces of the puzzle must fit. If we're missing one piece of the puzzle, we won't solve the problem. Thirdly, the existence and readiness of teachers and support professionals. We have heard many times here today in two hours that most teachers in mainstream schools are not prepared to deal with children with special educational needs from their own knowledge and skills. They don't have any systematic training. This is not a criticism of teachers. Absolutely not! Inclusive education is only possible if there are motivated teachers and support professionals on the ground in each educational establishment. We are currently short about half, or 1,600, of support specialists. Do we have a plan to get there? No, it's not. There will certainly be an increase in the workload of teachers. However, teachers say that this must not be done. In order to prevent this, it is essential to find additional resources to provide training for students in need of support and to cooperate with the support team as a whole. There must be a supervision that has already been touched today. It is necessary to ensure that students in need of support receive support in the best way, that the assistance is not dependent on the capacity of the local government and that all teachers receive the necessary additional training and counselling. However, this bill does not mean this concern. Why this law is needed has been repeatedly asked here today. There is nothing to say but that an ex-trial judgment has prompted the draft to be drawn up. The state must be responsible for children with special educational needs. And now this law needs to be handed over, pushed away from the shoulders of the state to the shoulders of the local governments. HTM has washed its hands: we support local governments! And before the local governments understand the seriousness of the matter, the train has gone and even the smoke of the train has vanished into the distant air. Undoubtedly, the draft has improved in cooperation, but is it ideal? I'm sure it isn't. And the deadline for entry into force is totally unrealistic. We are essentially not ready for this. This has been highlighted by parents of disabled children, teachers, support specialists, child protection associations, representative organisations for disabled people. Do teachers and students benefit from this? I'm not so sure about that. So let's take a moment and think! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U136	Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U137	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I admit I didn't have a plan to come and talk, but I have two, or two and a half points that I'd still like to share. First of all, I am happy to apologise in public: I am a little teacher from the work of the Riigikogu, but I did not get to the last training course on teaching children with special needs at our school. It was comforting that the training was conducted by Tiina Kallavus, the head of the Tartu Herbert Masing School, and I have had two long talks with him in recent months. I hope I got the message from the training at these talks. But now the two thoughts I was going to say. First of all, we have a kind of Buddhist mantra here, which sounds from every other speaker: inclusive education is valid from 2010. We're talking about students from our schools. I've taken one of my class students from school to psychoneurology hospital and later walked with him to the end of his high school. We're through! These students are real. And now I'm going to say one thing that maybe sounds like the opposite of what's been going on so far. We're too late with this bill. Since 2010, we have the principle of inclusive education, but all these seven and a half years have been left alone by the teacher. I know this may sound politically not very correct, but I'm quoting teacher Lauri here who said that if you can't do the whole thing, the side of the road. If we don't make the perfect bill, we'll make it half perfect, but let's show the teachers that we're thinking about them! Seven and a half years of inclusive education, and not one step against a teacher, it has been too long! I fully agree that the problems raised by the Teachers' Association are the right ones; they exist at school. My conviction is that the draft before us will help to resolve some of the problems. Yeah, we don't have anywhere to take the missing specialists from, like, 1600 or 1200, at the moment we're not sure about that either, but maybe one of those specialists who's gone to work in another system is gonna come to school when the director calls him, because he's got a chance to hire him. So my conviction is that this is a necessary bill. Yeah, that means half the work, it's not ideal, but if we leave teachers alone for a long time with the problems of inclusive education and say that we are chasing the perfect bill, then the Estonian education system may tear down a little more than it lasts. Now I would like to mention another threat. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U138	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U139	The danger I see is that we will take it from now on, that this law is now ready and that we will stop dealing with this issue for perhaps the next seven years. That would be really bad. One example. Children with special needs have been discussed in several sessions in the Committee on Culture. I can't tell by heart, but I think it's been going through almost ten sessions. At the same time, I do not remember us speaking in the Committee on Culture about talent as a special need, yet it also means a special need. We are saying that children with disabilities should be able to harness their potential, but the same is true for talented children. It seems to me that if we stay on the agenda on this subject, we should also reach a debate on forms of special needs that we have not yet had the strength to discuss. So, in my opinion, we are rather late with this bill, and it certainly seems reasonable for me to go on with it. Of course, our focus must not deviate from inclusive education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U140	Thomas Väinaste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U141	Honourable Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I have not been in the Riigikogu for a long time, but the year is already full. I have experience with children with special needs. Let me tell you a little bit about the Vaküla Special School in Lääne-Virumaa, which still exists, but no longer in the former premises. The annual number was 2010 when the school started repairing. As we know, an institution such as Riigi Kinnisvara AS has been designed to manage state assets. Riigi Kinnisvara AS took Facio Ehitus as a workman. Ten-year-old roofs were demolished, windows and doors were taken out of the way, a stadium on the hill, and then the case was dropped. You think about how much these things cost! A completely new gym and a new boiler house had been built, all this was left behind, and the Vaeküla school began to look for new rooms for further study. This place became Vinni Parish, an old Inju orphanage that had been left empty. It's where new houses were built. In the meantime, we took these kids to Vinni-Piust Gymnasium, where there was a free room for them on the basement floor. Our upper secondary school teachers said that they would never be able to teach children with special needs. The contingent that deals with them has indeed received special training. I don't know why they're so against it. Until last year, we had a clear trend in the Republic that schools for children with special needs would be lost and all children would be disbanded in primary schools. Today we consider this to be a problem and ask why we are doing this in the first place and why we are running these things around the country. The draft states that municipalities can take over these schools, but the rest of the schools will continue to be managed by the state. I think that's the main message. But as far as nuances are concerned, whether the wording is either that way or that way, whether this money is being given is the subject of discussion. I think that if this money is given to the municipalities, it can't be used for anything else. Why am I saying this? I was an elder in Vinni's parish for 15 years before I came here. It is dedicated money and its use is completely verifiable. As regards whether this bill has been submitted too late or too early, some think it will come too soon. That if we've been discussing one thing for 25 years, we should discuss another for 25 years. I don't think so. Now's a perfectly good time. We'll fix the bill if we have to, but this should go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U142	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! I have also met with the directors of many special schools, and I have received clear messages from them. As far as children with special educational needs are concerned, we have discussed their teaching at length and widely in the Committee on Culture. Recently, we talked about these children who have come from a small special school and have entered a large vocational school. I will bring Tartu, for example. They often fail in vocational school. We have also talked about the fact that information about the student's previous course of life, whether he has received any support at school, what recommendations he has been given, does not reach from one school to another. Information about the problems of a child with special needs and the measures taken to help him or her cannot reach from one school to another. For example, when a child comes from kindergarten, a parent may not want to say that the child needs to be eliminated. Or you could go to a student's vocational school with the same subject. Now this data is available to the EHIS as a whole and some people can look at the child's history. It's very important. Teachers of both vocational and primary schools and upper secondary schools have always stressed that they would like to help children, but sometimes they do not understand their needs. Is this bill needed or not? Of course I do. I think this is a step forward, a very long step forward. Have we ever talked about support specialists in this way before? Have we talked about special school teachers in this way? I am grateful for today's debate. I think we are all keeping an eye on decisive changes in this area, so that we take into account the needs of the teachers, so that we have more support specialists, so that we can act in this direction in the future. It has been argued here that some regulations could change the situation. It's not like that. Municipal schools are currently unable to receive operating grants, but in the future, operating grants, like education grants, will be accompanied by children with special needs. As I have said, the amount of operating allowance depends on the child's special needs, whether he or she needs enhanced support or whether he or she needs it. This is an important step forward. If municipal schools currently receive only education support, then they will continue to receive operating support. The fact that all children with special needs have to go to a regular municipal school or private school is not mentioned in the draft. It is a matter of arbitrary interpretation. All previous speakers have spoken about the problems of inclusive education. I absolutely agree that the issues raised by school teachers are justified. But if someone says schoolteachers aren't involved in the discussion, it's not true. The Estonian Federation of Educational Workers also includes school teachers, so they are involved. Many of the problems of transport etc. remain up, and we will certainly address them in the Committee on Culture. Similarly, the problem is that not all cities and municipalities are able to provide all children with special needs with a small class or individual education. This issue remains, too, and that is what we will continue to do. Listening to previous speeches raised the question of whether implementation of the principle of inclusive education had failed. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U144	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U145	Should we send children with special needs who go to regular schools to special schools? Do we want the situation again that children or adults with disabilities do not have a special need in front of us? I don't think that's the right move. Children in regular schools who are healthy and otherwise well must get used to having different children next to us, different people. This ultimately benefits society as a whole. These people don't disappear from our side. Either on the labour market or in some other way, we are still dealing with very different people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U146	I'm closing the negotiations. 36 proposals have been put forward to amend the draft 519. But before we proceed with the substantive debate on the draft, we will vote on the proposal made by the Central Party Group. The content of the proposal is to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. It is appropriate to vote on it first. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the procedural proposal of the Estonian Centre Party Group to extend today's session until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, 17 against, with 2 abstentions. The working time of the plenary session of the Riigikogu has been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Honourable Riigikogu, we will begin the examination of the amendments to the draft 519. The first amendment, tabled by Tiina Kangro and Helmen Küti, has been rejected by the Commission and, in accordance with § 106 (2) of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, is not to be voted on. The second proposal, presented by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. The third proposal, tabled by the Free Party Group, has not been taken into account and will not be voted on. The fourth amendment, tabled by the Free Party Group, has been taken into account in substance. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U148	Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Free Party, which has been taken into account in substance by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. There were 34 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 43 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The fifth proposal, presented by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 6, tabled by Ms Kangro and Mr Hunt, the Commission has taken full account of this. The seventh amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. The eighth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. The ninth amendment, tabled by Ms Kangro and Mr Helmen Küti, has been taken into account in substance. The tenth amendment, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 11, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 12, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 13, tabled by Ms Kangro and Mr Helmen Küti, has not been taken into consideration and will not be put to the vote in plenary. Amendment 14, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 15, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 16, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 17, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. The 18th proposal, presented by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. The 19th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, has been fully taken into account. Amendment 20, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. Amendment 21, tabled by Laine Randjärve, Liina Kersna, Heidy Purga and Yoko Alender, has been partially taken into account by the Steering Committee. Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U149	I ask for this very good proposal, which concerns the wage coefficient of the support specialists, to vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U150	Got it. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 21 tabled by Laine Randjärv, Liina Kersna, Heidy Purga and Yoko Alender, which has been partially taken into account by the commission. Please take a stand and vote. Amendment 21 was for 36, against 43 members of the Riigikogu, with no abstentions. The amendment was not supported. Amendment 22, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. The 23rd proposal, presented by the Committee on Culture, has been taken into account. The 24th proposal, presented by the Committee on Culture, has been taken into account. 25. Proposal, Tiina Kangro and Helmen Küti submitted, taken into account in substance. 26th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. 27th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. 28th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. 29th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. Amendment 30, tabled by Tiina Kangro and Helmen Küti, has not been taken into account, is not to be voted on. 31th proposal, submitted by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. Proposal 32, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. 33th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. 34th proposal, tabled by the Committee on Culture, taken into account. 35th proposal, tabled by the Reform Party Group, has not been taken into account. Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U151	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U152	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 35, which is tabled by the Reform Party Group and which has been disregarded by the commission of directors. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of Amendment 35, 43 against and no abstentions. The amendment will not be accepted. Amendment 36, tabled by the Committee on Culture, fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. Two proposals have been received during the procedure, from the Reform Party Group and the Free Party Group. They have the same content: interrupt the second reading of draft 519. We need to vote on this proposal. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Reform Party Group and the Free Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the draft 519. Please take a stand and vote. 39 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal to interrupt the second reading of Bill 519, 43 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. The second reading of Bill 519 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U153	Our next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Social Democratic Party Group. The waitress for the initiators is Andres Metsoja. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U154	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This year has been a very forest-related year. In this Chamber, we have discussed several times the amendment of the Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act. Some of the amendments also entered into force on 1 September. We have now initiated a draft 560 on another amendment to the Nature Conservation Act and the Forest Act. Perhaps it is appropriate to mention that we have all become richer in the meantime in the sense that the state forest management centre has a million hectares of land on the balance sheet as an asset. This means that through RMK, we are all joint owners of it. But possession always means responsibility and the management of property. The draft law with which I am before you was initiated by the Group of the Centre Party, the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Social Democratic Party on 6 December this year. The reason was the restrictions imposed by the need to protect our diverse nature. The Chancellor of Justice has also repeatedly spoken about this problem on the floor. He has pointed out that the acquisition of land under § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act is too slow. Many private owners do not receive income from certain countries due to restrictions that they would otherwise receive. All coalitions have worked hard on this issue. The state budget has provided additional resources to solve the problem from year to year, but now you have before you a draft aimed at creating the possibility of using other sources, in addition to the state budget, for the purchase of land with conservation restrictions, in order to ensure better compliance with the state's obligations. According to the draft law, the State Forest Management Centre has the right to buy out land from private individuals who have a protected land site where an inventory has been made in which protected species and objects have been identified. This substantial work will continue to be carried out by the Land Administration. We have a list of sites under nature conservation that the owners want to sell to the state, and there are currently 177 items on that list. This, of course, is constantly changing. RMK will be the entity that will be the owner of these parcels and will have to ensure compliance with the nature conservation conditions imposed on them in accordance with the agreements. There is always a question of where the necessary money comes from. It is reasonable to mention here that the RMK Council has proposed to allocate EUR 5.5 million to all this activity in the RMK budget for 2018. This 5.5 million should be a good starting amount, but in fact there are some EUR 12 million in these liabilities. This means that in two or three years it should be possible to solve this problem. Initially, it has been calculated that the time taken to buy out is longer. The revenue required for the budget of the State Forest Management Centre should come from the sale of property. At the moment, some 30 properties are expected to be transferred, but the Land Administration has 50 properties on the list. These are parcels where the land management and land reform carried out by the State Forest Management Centre has become apparent in the whole analysis of RMK's assets that it is unreasonable to keep them for RMK. The law also provides for the possibility that revenue from logging may, if necessary, be used to buy out these lands. This bill is a good bill. I think this law will provide a better opportunity to implement the state's promises. The law should enter into force on 1 January 2018, but it is probably not possible, as the Riigikogu processes it for longer than 1 January. So it will enter into force once the Riigikogu has carried out the necessary actions and found a common section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U155	Questions for the waitress. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U156	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! Thank you for your initiative on this issue, which we have also repeatedly raised in this Chamber. One possible solution has been put on the table. Now I would like you to clarify one thing. Since both the Land Board and RMK can buy up land with conservation restrictions, how much is its total budget in 2018? The Minister of Finance was here to defend the bill and said there would be 1.4 million through the Earth Administration, you said there would be 5.5 million through RMK. Are both of these amounts valid or will the land administration's resources be excluded from excise duty increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U157	Thank you. According to the head of RMK, this amount is 5.5 million. For some 5 million, RMK's funds are intended to buy out these lands, while EUR 0.5 million should be earmarked for organisational costs. RMK is not planning to employ additional staff for this purpose, but is planning to cope with its own forces. This is undoubtedly a broader issue than the budget of RMK alone. As I have already said, there are currently 177 properties in the order that belong to people who have not knowingly acquired a piece of land that has some protective object of nature. Probably more people who have acquired land with the knowledge that there are conservation restrictions may be added to the list. If these people see that they have the opportunity to sell this land to the state, then these requests will probably be added. As I mentioned, the Land Office is still the keeper of this list and the maker of its proposals, RMK is the realtor of transactions. The planned transactions in the state budget of EUR 4 million are a step up of EUR 1 million compared to the previous year's budget, but, as far as I am aware, there is a very clear guideline that expenditure on land purchases is made not from the state budget, but from RMK's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U158	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U159	Thank you, Chairman. Honourable waitress! How do you view a possible additional amendment to Paragraph 48 (5) of the Forest Act? This is a rather poor wording, according to which one minister responsible for the sector is proposing to another minister responsible for the sector how much of RMK's net profit would go to the state budget. We have this suspicion that you are still putting a very heavy burden on RMK, wanting to solve another problem. In spring, the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment spoke with great mouth that the incorporation of RMK's dividend income into the state budget must be reduced, either imposed a restriction or cut off at all. How do you feel about that idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U160	Thank you. Undoubtedly, it may seem a little odd that one minister makes suggestions to another, the Minister for Finance to the Minister for the Environment, or vice versa. At the same time, the management of the entire forest must not only be managed, but also valued in cooperation and discussion. We now know that RMK operates on the basis of a established development plan whose objectives are set for the period from 2015 to 2020. If we look at these goals, we can see that the goals set and achieved actually fit quite nicely. Take, for example, the stocking and sale of timber in this table: the 2015 target was 3.5 million cubic metres, 3.6 cubic metres were realised. The 2018 target is 3.8 million cubic metres. Looking at the profits, we can see that in 2015, the profit was expected to be EUR 35 million, and it received EUR 36 million. In 2017, 39 million were expected to be received, 44 million received. It's not about how much profit came about anyway. At the same time, the budget balance for 2018 is 41 million, or less, than this year's profits have been generated. What can I tell you? The price of timber will determine a great deal in the world of timber. In the current situation, our biggest enemy in forest management is poor weather, but the low price of timber has also caused problems. On the other hand, it is nice that the price of timber is on a upward trend. RMK's budget includes an increase of 3,8% in the price of timber, which is actually confirmed by the volume contracts. If the price is better, it is possible to cut less forest. But that doesn't mean you don't have to chop at all. As an economic forest, too, the forest needs cutting to ensure its productivity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U161	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U162	Thank you, good speaker! Dear waitress, I think we need to talk about things with the right names on this bill, too. It is right to admit that the motive for the draft is nothing other than the desire to stick up a budget hole in the state forest caused by excise disruption. In other words, the state budget obligations that the purchase of immovable property with nature conservation restrictions is converted into the obligations of the State Forest Management Centre. These amounts will be raised out of the state budget. I think there is a pretty serious risk that the state forest will be under increasing pressure after this change because the government is trying to carry out state budget tasks through RMK and at the expense of RMK. How do you rule out this threat?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U163	Thank you. I think this must be ruled out by a new development plan. The development plan must set priorities not only with a view to making profits, but also with regard to forest growth and visitor times. The Estonian forest should not only be valued from the point of view of how much money falls from there in order to meet our social goals in a common boiler. Of course, all parties must be heard. The fact that forest is a resource that must also provide input to our economy cannot be ruled out, but it cannot be done without cutting it. This rather small component, which is directly received through RMK into our budget, is only a small part of the forest contribution. After all, the industrial sector employs a lot of people. But once again: the resource must be managed sensibly and can still be managed only in the light of the objectives set out in the development plan. I think the forest must never become a toy used in the hands of politicians.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U164	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! RMK's money's probably still in a state wallet somewhere. Perhaps you can explain the difference between taking money from RMK's wallet or the state budget? Perhaps this is a wish that, since this money is firmly available, it will be put directly into RMK's wallet so that this work can be done with certainty, that the queues will decrease and people will get their money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U166	Thank you. I guess this whole picture is wider in the sense that, in the course of the land reform, very many countries that are not necessary for the country's main activity have been transferred to RMK. We know that these plots have been disposed of, but recently, very large units of land have gone to the property of RMK. RMK needs to think very carefully about what to do with them. The inventory will be carried out. The result of the inventory is that certain forest units are formed: there are then nearby nature conservation objects or there are larger forest masses. The economics of management, the whole network of forest roads and drainage systems are also at stake in all of this. We need to think carefully about how we can manage the resource that belongs to all of us as rationally as possible. That's one side of it. The other half, which I have already mentioned, is nature conservation. We know very well that if we want to protect nature, we cannot do this only by establishing a specific single border. We also need to look at the cross-border impact of the protected object: whether it is a valuable habitat or a certain permanent habitat, whatever the natural community, it must be preserved and developed. It is often not reasonable to engage in economic activity in the vicinity. During this whole process, RMK will mention land that RMK does not consider meaningful for its own economic activity. These separate pieces, which do not form a whole, are put up for sale and receive revenue specifically from RMK's budget. If this revenue comes, it would be right for this money to deliver on our common promise to the European Union, which we have given to each other. We have promised that protecting nature is important to us. Now the question is ultimately whether the source of money used for this is the state budget in which the money has been received from alcohol excise duty and also from many other sources, or whether it can be used very specifically from the management of land resources. In Finland, the road to the disposal of land that is protected by nature has been completed by a profit-making institution formed by the state. I think it's a reasonable model.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U167	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! My question is not as substantive as it is technical. The dates for processing this bill are very strange. On 6 December you handed it over, today we have 19 December. And most strangely: you have scheduled the deadline for the amendments on 21 December at 9.30 a.m. Does this mean that you do not expect the substance to be included in this debate? How do you get it done by 9:30 the day after tomorrow? Does the Committee on the Environment intend to meet on Thursday to discuss the amendments in substance? If the Commission does not do so and meets on 8 January, the deadline for amendments could also be longer. Why is it still so short?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U169	Thank you. Indeed, the Committee on the Environment intends to discuss the amendments at 9.30 a.m. on Thursday 21 December. And indeed, it was 9:30 a.m. deadline for amendments. I'm sure we'll expect you to come along. Obviously, this bill is not, how I say, very detailed and with wide-ranging influence. I believe that good Members will be able to make their proposals during this period, and we will also be able to review them nicely.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U170	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U171	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! This issue needs a little longer to be discussed. After all, these are RMK's revenue-costs, how it makes sense to use money as a whole. I therefore think that the deadline for amendments of less than 48 hours is unreasonable. My question concerns the amendment to § 54 (2) of the Forest Act. You will complete this by using the proceeds of the sale of immovable property to acquire immovable property for the purposes of managing the state forest or generating revenue for RMK and now, as a proposal, to carry out the "other task of the state as laid down by law'. Please present the Commission's debate to us. What other functions of the state as laid down in the law are we talking about? You also want to supplement § 48 by adding to RMK's tasks the acquisition of immovable property containing a protected natural object, but this is where you extend the ampluaade.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U172	Thank you. Next, Mr Ernits will take stock of the debate that took place in the Commission, and he will also be able to present it to you in greater detail. I can't comment any more, this 'other' may be very specifically related to the performance of certain functions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U173	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U174	Thank you. Good waitress! You know, we have spoken with great concern this year on a number of occasions about the increasing pressure of cutting state forests. This issue has been up on several occasions. This pressure has been exerted by the government in precisely the way that RMK is associated with the expectations of growing dividends, i.e. RMK has been obliged to pay more and more dividends from year to year in order to enable the state to meet its state budget obligations. Now you want to push through a change here in a hurry at Christmas and with a very unreasonable short deadline for the amendments, which puts another very large additional financial burden on RMK. My question is: has RMK's obligation to pay dividends been reduced by this amount in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U175	Not reduced. As I have already mentioned, the proceeds are intended to be from the sale of unbuilt real estate. This money comes from the sale of unbuilt real estate, and that is not the case with logging in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U176	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U177	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! It still doesn't make sense how the pressure on the forest doesn't go down. One thing: Who decides the countries that are going to be sold? And another thing: would it still not be reasonable to allow RMK to be completely abandoned in order to demand dividends during the period when these compensations are paid?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U178	Thank you. Did you mean the pieces of land that are being bought out of civilians? You didn't? You meant the unbuilt plots of land that would put RMK on the market. I have already mentioned that an inventory is being carried out, to determine the state of certain parcels: whether they are natural grasslands or already scrubbed or forested parcels, so that there is actually forest assets on it, which can be cut down, but sometimes they are separate pieces that are not part of a single whole within the forest massage of RMK. This work is carried out by specialists who evaluate each piece of land separately. People go into the woods, make observations, and that's how this list develops. It's a day-to-day job. It's nothing new, it's been done in RMK's system all along. The second part of the question concerned the expectations of the dividend and the increasing pressure to cut down the forest. I dare say the price of the forest, the price of the log is rising, and it's probably going to stay this long. This is confirmed by some analysts. So far, the price of wood has been low. However, I must come to my previous answers. I indicated that timber prices should not be the only argument when planning felling volumes. This must be accompanied by a proper forest growth analysis. These longer perspectives cannot be set by me from this Riigikogu speaking chair. These things must be set out in the development plan to be drawn up by the people in the field. I would like to emphasise once again: one development plan will end in 2020. So far, felling volumes have been agreed for the period from 2015 to 2020 and have been filled, any coalition that has been dominant. This plan has been respected. If we see that the volume of felling is too high, this issue must be discussed and new priorities set very clearly in the development plan. And the government, which puts its expectations in large felling volumes, will also take responsibility for these consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U179	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! Still, we have not received convincing answers to many fundamental questions. What makes this scheme for compensating land with conservation restrictions better than the previous one? And I also notice a contradiction here. You once said that it would be possible to compensate for both sales revenue and cutting income, but when you answered the question of Keit Pentus-Rosimate, you said that it was only a matter of income from the disposal of land and that it had nothing to do with dividends. We don't understand how it really is. And why are you not prepared to confirm that there is no further pressure on dividend income and that this pressure should be reduced?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U181	Thank you. First of all, why this system, whether the system being created is better than the current one. Point one, we have not been very successful in buying out land with conservation restrictions. The pressure to increase the buy-out amount has been one of the key issues in the annual budget negotiations. In fact, the Free Party has also stood for this all the time, saying that we must not impose excessive restrictions on the private owner, and if the state wants to do so, we must use our common wallet to do so. In the current context, this common wallet is the land resource that has been transferred to RMK. RMK decides to use this asset. I just described how it works. The issue has been discussed in the RMK Council; the matter has been discussed in the Committee on the Environment. And in this very context, is it really next that, listen, dividend income simply needs to be higher in order to be able to start fulfilling this state's obligation in RMK? We have been assured on several occasions, both from the Ministry of the Environment and from RMK, that all the possibilities and means to do so are guaranteed, not because of logging, but because of the transfer of property. There is also a list of the parcels concerned. I, as a member of the Committee on the Environment and as a member of the Supervisory Board of RMK, have no reason to doubt these assurances. That's one. The other half of the question concerned dividends and, in fact, I have already answered that question. The pressure to get more money from the forest is in society. Let us look at the current forest industry. Some time ago, the industrialists stood on their woods, and they couldn't see over the piles of wood. Today's situation is they're going to go to the woodshed, put their hands in front of their eyes, but they don't see a pile of wood on the horizon. Market demand is high and is generally expected to be matched by supply. But I once again assure you that decisions on the use of forest resources will be taken with greater anticipation, not with the impulse of the moment. We cannot give in to pressure from industrialists; we cannot only bear in mind the need to fulfil the state budget in order to make certain promises. The forest must be managed and done with a long-term perspective, otherwise there will be little to manage at one point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U182	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U183	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Mr Kangro, a good colleague, raised the question, when discussing the previous item, that certain responsibilities are being dealt with in a covert manner. Do you dare to confirm it, or do you object to the fact that this principle really stands out from government action? One example is that local authorities are given more money, which should be able to fulfil their obligations, but it actually turns out that they are trying to get rid of their responsibilities. Is this draft that you are defending now not a similar symptom? And who will finally decide the order in which these lands will be compensated? How can you ensure transparency and clarity in this process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U184	Thank you. On the contrary, this bill gives the owner a great deal of confidence and the state is responsible for it. If a private plot has a protected natural object, it is a matter for all of us, not for a particular landowner. We cannot limit the possibilities of managing its assets and reduce its value by declaring it to be a protected object. The State is now clearly assuming more responsibility than before so that the land on this list can be fully bought out. We have not done this very effectively so far. This group of people is relatively small, their voice echoes in society, but not forcefully. At the same time, we have always talked about the importance of protecting nature. And now a concrete step is being taken in this direction, taking responsibility for the execution of all these decisions. These parcels shall be bought out and their owners shall receive a fair remuneration on the basis of the market price. Indeed, the assessment is carried out by assessing the economic potential of the plot, even if there is a protected object. According to this, there will also be a transfer process led by the Land Administration. So far, there have been a number of problems in buying out parcels, as shortening the lists is a bit stale. We are used to thinking that an object of nature conservation value is definitely somewhere in the wilderness, but there are also these on the limestone shores near Tallinn. And sometimes the price offered has not been acceptable to the owner, he has thought that the property is more expensive. There have even been litigation on these matters, until then, whether or not a plot of land will be removed from the list. It's not good practice, but that's the story.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U185	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U186	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I did not get a clear answer to my first question as to why there are so unrealisticly and unreasonablely short deadlines in the procedure for the draft if we still expect substantive involvement. It was quite interesting for you to say that this bill does not have a wide-ranging effect. Probably is. Now the unnecessary so-called immovable property of the State Forest Management Centre will be sold and the proceeds will be used. So it makes sense to ask how the management of the State Forest Management Centre feels about this bill. Unfortunately, we do not find their position in the explanatory memorandum. How do they feel about it, and how have they been involved in the preparation process?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U187	Thank you. I would point out that, by wide-ranging influence, I meant influence on other legislation. This draft does not have a major impact on other legislation, but it will certainly have a major impact on society at large. And RMK's leadership is involved. I dare say that the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of RMK and the Chairman of the Management Board have discussed this issue repeatedly. And it was also mentioned at the last meeting of the RMK Supervisory Board. RMK is fully aware of everything. By participating in the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, they have confirmed that they have no substantive problem with this issue. If this task needs to be accomplished, they will be ready to do so. They need a know-how, they have competence. They know how to handle it. And the cooperation with the Land Board in taking the balance sheet of RMK on these parcels is comprehensive. So there are no obstacles.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U188	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U189	Let me get this straight. You're a member of the RMK Council? The question arose that we talk a lot about profits, dividends, etc. in the case of RMK, which would suggest that it is like a company, although it is not in legal form. Is the IRL's position on the involvement of politicians in company councils the same? After all, RMK does not only manage and protect forests but also conduct business, the revenue of which the state receives a share.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U190	Thank you. RMK is a profit institution and its activities are not limited to business. After all, we have said a lot in the context of the Forest Act that the forest must not be viewed as merely a source of revenue. It is increasingly stressed that the forest is of value. I believe that the new generations who come on are looking at the forest with a completely different view than I am. There has been no debate on this in the party. I have been a member of the RMK Council since the beginning, but if at one point it is found that politicians are not allowed to participate in the RMK Council, to get a bigger picture of our common property, which is, as I mentioned, a million hectares, then it will be.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U191	There are no further questions for the initiator of the draft. The rapporteur of the Commission is Peeter Ernits, member of the Committee on the Environment. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U192	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, This story has a pretty far-reaching background in time. Remember, once a minister of the environment went into trouble with the law because of a land change. And for ten years now, it's been buying land instead of changing lands. But all this ten years, people are having problems with this subject. What did Marko Pomerants, former Minister of the Environment say? That some Estonians die in hatred of conservationists. The background is that there has simply been no money for the purchase of land that is subject to strict conservation restrictions of around 9% of all such land. Colleagues from the Free Party have vigorously fought to have more money and this tail would move faster, but this human tail is pretty close on seven pages. Still pretty tall. In the meantime, even the Chancellor of Justice came here to swipe his finger and say that people should get their money within a reasonable time, so that they would not die hating conservationists. It shouldn't be eight or nine years, it should be moving much faster. And now we're getting to the story of how the touch of a butterfly plant can make a difference somewhere in the other corner of the world. Alcohol rally to Latvia has taken on a great deal of momentum and, at the same time, some people have been worried that although homes are full of alcohol, there is still not much excise duty. Maybe the increase in alcohol duty was too high. And now our good coalition partner, the Minister of Finance of the IRL, has come up with a story that the government has supported, that, in fact, we could halve the increase in beer, less alcohol and also wine excise duty in February. Of course, there's a question about where to get the shields. Well, now we're gonna get there. The forest is a poor man's coat. We're getting out of the woods, but not to the sale of logs, colleagues. It's kind of a general background to be honest. And now I come to the debate in the Committee on the Environment, which took place on Monday, 11 December. The meeting was chaired by Rainer Vakra, the participants were not only my Valeri Korb, Andres Metsoja, Meelis Mälberg, Kalle Palling, Terje Trei and Commission advisers, but also Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, and Andres Talijärv, Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment. Rainer Vakra noted that the draft was initiated by three political parties of the government coalition on 6 December. Andres Metsoja has already spoken here for a long time and explained that the purpose of the bill is to give the state an additional opportunity to acquire land with conservation restrictions, in addition to the state budget. Indeed, in this list that I showed you, some people have been on for ten years. You can imagine how much their anger is, because it is often the death of people of a solid age, and it can come before this little money for a land with conservation restrictions when the state buys it. Andres Metsoja noted that 177 applications are currently on the list. The estimated cost of these parcels is EUR 12 million. Rainer Vakra asked why he didn't handle the liquidation of the queue until the end of the Earth Administration. Andres Talijärv answered him. First, the acquisition of queued immovable property is already reflected in RMK's budget. Secondly, there has not been enough money for which the Land Office could have bought land for the state. Earning Lisa has been limited by increasing sales of state-owned land. And thirdly, Andres Talijärv noted that the Land Office is rigidly linked to the state budget, which is an important observation. However, there have been intensive discussions over the years on how to find money to meet this commitment. So although this is not reflected in the protocol, for years, RMK has been meditating on it and discussing it with ministers much earlier, even before this increase in excise duty, how to find extra money. Andres Talijärv concluded with the idea that in order to reduce the queue faster, the state has to serve itself. In the course of the land reform, RMK has left smaller stand-alone properties that could be sold. The plan is to dispose of all these land, not in eight to nine years, so long some people have been in line in 2.5 years. Rainer Vakra wondered why the Land Office has limited the possibility of selling state lands, but RMK did not. Chancellor Andres Talijärv explained that the money from the countries sold by the Land Board goes to the state budget, while the money from the countries sold by RMK can buy new real estate. Such a small, important observation. Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, pointed out that they did not intend to take on new staff who should be involved in this work. Chairman of the Commission Rainer Vakra asked whether, after the liquidation of the queue, two public authorities would continue to operate in parallel with the sale of land. Chancellor Talijärv replied that a common portal would be created for the sale of land, but when it would come, could not say now, in any case not by 1 January. But yes, the plan is to make a joint portal to the Land Office and RMK. They're not gonna compete. During the land reform, RMK has developed properties that have some forest or are related to nature conservation, while the Land Administration has many urban areas. The land administration's obligation to sell state-owned land will not disappear. So in fact, both the Land Board and RMK will sell the land in the future. Meelis Mälberg wondered whether the applications would be accepted in accordance with the order in which they were received. Andres Talijärv explained that the queue will not be changed. The current arrangements for the transfer of land remain in force. The applicants can be divided into two parts: first, landowners on whose property the state has formed a protected area and they have not knowingly bought land with conservation restrictions; second, people who knowingly bought land with conservation restrictions. The idea of involving RMK in solving the problem has been taken from the Finnish forest government. Meelis Mälberg asked how much it was planned to buy the state next year with nature conservation restrictions. Chancellor Talijärv replied that the state budget accounted for the disposal of 5.5 million euros, including land that could be purchased for 5 million euros. Mr Terje Trei pointed out that the draft was scheduled to enter into force on 1 January, but that January was about to come, so that amendments could no longer be discussed this year. Andres Metsoja stated that the draft law would probably be postponed as a law. I think that was a sharp observation. I was curious about the number of states that could be sold right away. Andres Talijärv replied that it would immediately be possible to sell some 30,000 hectares, or 300 square kilometres, and that the Land Administration would have some 50,000 hectares. So, in fact, the land that could be sold, I'm not talking about right now, not in terms of logs, is still quite a lot. And five million is just a small part of what you could actually get. I also asked whether, in the past, the same solutions had not been considered in order to speed up the buying-out of long-lost lands. Andres Talijärv explained that this idea has been repeatedly offered to the Ministry of Finance, but the purchase of these countries was still not guaranteed if the state budget were to receive more money. In the case of RMK, the certainty is greater, as RMK buys these lands for its nature conservation tasks. Andres Metsoja wondered whether the processing of the applications would be changed so that the next landowner's application could be resolved by challenging some sales transactions. He referred to the Gulf of Tallinn and one of its properties, which held the land for some time as a stick. Andres Talijärv noted that very expensive properties, such as the piece of land under the slope of Lasnamäe, are no longer in line and no major disputes should arise. Meelis Mälberg asked whether RMK could only use the proceeds from the sale of the land to acquire the properties or whether it could also use log sales money. Aigar Kallas, Chairman of the Management Board of RMK, explained that the Supervisory Board of RMK confirms the exact budget used for this purpose. Here you could now listen carefully to colleagues from the Free Party who previously had these questions. The Minister of the Environment decides which countries to buy, and the Supervisory Board of RMK decides which countries to sell. Purchases can also be financed by income from log sales, but land can only be purchased with land. Terje Trei wondered whether RMK had been prescribed the amount of dividends to fill the state budget. Aigar Kallas pointed out that I would still like to assume the opposite, since using land sales money would be bought back for the same amount of limited land. Andres Talijärv added that according to the law, the money earned from the sale of the land could not be taken out as a dividend because it was an obligation to buy back new lands. Rainer Vakra asked how the purchase price of the properties in the RMK queue would develop. Andres Talijärv replied that the land valuation procedure was very precise. Aigar Kallas added that the sale price is shaped by a public auction. If the parties are unable to agree on a price for the purchase of queued properties where the parties are unable to agree, there is one out of ten, then the Minister of the Environment will give up the purchase. The purchase price is based on offers from different real estate companies and the cheapest offer is submitted to the landowner. If the landowner does not agree, an additional evaluation shall be carried out and the offer shall be reviewed. Finally, Andres Metsoja wondered whether natural values would also be taken into account when determining the purchase price of the land, for example, in order to maintain some association or similar. Andres Talijärv explained that the state is buying these lands with the idea that these things need to be taken into account. Ultimately, it was decided by consensus that in this Chamber I would give an overview of the debate and that the Commission would propose that the draft be put on the agenda for today when the first reading could be concluded. The deadline for amendments, as has already been said, is on Thursday 21 December at 9:30 a.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U193	Questions for the Commission's rapporteur. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U194	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! I will ask the same question as my colleague from the previous waitress. How did the deadline for amendments become so short?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U195	Well, that's how it turned out. Actually, I'm stressing, I don't want to be talking about the stork around here. The question was that the draft cluster law is not nice and that everything should be dealt with separately. With the amendment of the current Forest Act and the Nature Conservation Act, the aim is to find the missing 10 million and replay something. There has always been too little money in the state budget to buy back land with conservation restrictions. Now RMK will start buying it back and the money will come from there. That's why these deadlines, as far as I can tell, are so short. It was already mentioned that on Thursday the Committee on the Environment would meet and be able to review the proposals. As for the fact that these people do not die hating conservationists, as Mr Pomerants has said, the proposed solution is quite a good one. We'll get the job done in a couple of years. It is quite logical that RMK, who actually deals directly with nature conservation countries, will do the job. They have discussed this option much earlier, both with environmental ministers and with finance ministers, but it has not just happened. Now the problem of these people will be resolved. As I referred to earlier, there are actually many opportunities here for the disposal of the lands that RMK has. These financial opportunities are much higher than this EUR 5 and a half million per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U196	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U197	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can you explain something, please? Paragraph 2 (2) of the draft law states that the proceeds of the disposal may also be used for the fulfilment of another task of the State as laid down in the Act. What could be the task of a "other state governed by law"?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U198	Thank you for your question. There was no debate on this in the Committee on the Environment, and I am not going to fantasize here either. But as far as I can see, if you look at the provisions that are being amended here, such as § 20 (2) of the Nature Conservation Act, where you put a few words into it, you can conclude that at the moment the ends are simply left open so that something else can be done. But there was no debate about this and I will not fantasize.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U199	No more members of the Riigikogu would like to ask questions to the committee rapporteur. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Free Party Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U200	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been dealing more seriously with the issue of the disposal of natural protected land since the early spring of 2016, when the Free Party Group began to draft a draft that proposed a possible solution that would prevent the extension of the list of real estate transfers, which is very difficult to find on the website of the Ministry of the Environment. In autumn 2016, the Chancellor of Justice came before us with a statement that this is a breach of the Constitution. For eight to nine years, it is not a reasonable time for owners to wait for an answer. A reasonable time would be for everyone's problem to be solved within a year. Therefore, the Free Party does not dispute that the transfer of immovable property could be administered by RMK. Moreover, there has been a move to ensure that the state can own areas with nature conservation restrictions itself, as compensation mechanisms such as those in Finland have not been developed for private owners. In Finland, it is normal that a private forest owner is also a conservationist. Therefore, we do not dispute this solution. However, it is a very big question for us that the whole issue needs a wider discussion on the use of the budget money of the State Forest Management Centre. This also includes the use of income from forests, since it is linked to the fulfilment of this obligation. According to my understanding, the Land Office is currently attempting to operate under exactly the same scheme, i.e. it must sell its assets so that the proceeds from it can satisfy the declarations on the list of transfers of immovable property. Now they're taking it all under RMK. We don't see that that's the solution. The Land Office has proven that this is not the solution. It is likely that if RMK is given a political obligation, it will also fulfil this obligation by using dividend money. The Council does indeed propose the amount concerned, but the decision is made by the Minister for the Environment alone, who in turn proposes to the Government. Looking at the budget lines for dividends, we see that, unfortunately, the sum has doubled over the last two years. Thus, there is stronger pressure on logging. Yeah, it can be said that at the moment, the revenue from wood is huge, the numbers are beautiful, but it's a momentary situation. When several factories start to build here, prices change automatically. We cannot build the state budget on the current situation; our decisions must take into account a long period and also work in five, ten, fifteen years' time. In particular, the current decisions are not reasonable in terms of preserving the entire natural environment. In addition to forest maintenance and logging, we have placed an obligation on RMK to protect, grow, deserve the forest. I mean, not just trees, but the whole environment in the forest is also hiking trails and other health trails. How can we say, on the basis of today's draft, that this area is not suffering now? The five million that have been put out may also be needed to maintain roads or keep forest huts running. These, too, require certain care. There is no guarantee that this political will will will serve a noble purpose, and that is a problem. I also point out that the deadline for amendments is not reasonable. I call on the Board of the Riigikogu to make a different decision than the Commission has proposed. Suppose, by 9.30 a.m., 15 members of the Riigikogu have submitted proposals. There's a hearing at 10:00. How can 15 delegates be heard in 30 minutes? That doesn't make any sense! Is there an emergency committee meeting? This decision seems to have been made very quickly and without thought. We have assumed that this issue is more substantive and more important. Our proposal is certainly to set the deadline for amendments at ten working days. We invite you to talk at all about the use of RMK's revenues in the wider sense. The chairman of the Committee on the Environment gave a very clear message in spring that the use of RMK's money must be reversed: money must go back to the forest, i.e. to the planting of the forest, to the cleaning of the forest and to the protection of the forest. The defence aspect of the forest is borne by this draft, which is why we support this initial idea, but we do not support the proposed solution. There is no guarantee that RMK's revenues will not be used to patch up the budget. Changing these laws must still serve the purpose of protecting nature and deserving nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U201	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus on behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U202	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I listened to the presentation by the representative of the Commission and to this discussion, to answer questions. Honestly, I don't know whether to cry or laugh. It was pretty incredible what we heard here in response to a few questions. But I'll start again from the beginning. The motive for this bill is nothing more than the fact that the government coalition in power, despite all the warnings that sounded, caused a great deal of confusion with alcohol excise duty. And not just a mess, but a situation where there is a hole in the budget and where instead of collapsing the costs, they try to fill the resulting hole at the expense of the forest. What does that mean? What do you mean, on the account of the woods? The fact that the State must acquire privately owned immovable property in order to impose nature conservation restrictions is not disputed by anyone. That's right. This is a budgetary commitment, which must be provided for in the state budget and, of course, these national budgets must be increased. But now these same responsibilities of the state are being imposed on the state forest, and that means that the pit created is being tried to cover the state forest. We have talked about the forest many times this year in this hall. We have spoken with concern about the forest, we have spoken with concern about the future of the forest. We have talked about the fact that the government's desire to exponentially squeeze more money out of the state forest could be a threat to the future of the state forest. In the spring, as the previous speaker recalled, this ended our debate in this Chamber with the belief that we need to withdraw: we need to reduce this pressure and pull it back. Where are we now? Exactly the opposite situation. The government coalition intends to further increase the pressure on the state forest by rushing through this change before us. My question as to whether the new very large financial commitments imposed on the state forest were at least cut back on RMK's dividend liabilities, which are very large in the budget, was the answer that this has not been done. Government dividend claims are still as high as they were. I do not know the respected coalition, do you actually understand what you are doing to the state forest with this decision? Under the pretty sign, you make a very ugly decision, the effect of which goes far and lasts for a long time. A separate issue is how less than 48 hours are given to propose amendments to the draft, which concerns both the basic state forest. What is that? My proposal and a request to the President of the Riigikogu is that such a thing should not be allowed to pass. This is a very fundamental decision and if the members of the Riigikogu have less than 48 hours to make proposals, it is just ugly. Don't do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U203	There is no further wish for negotiations. In order to be able to proceed with the draft procedure, the President will take a five-minute break. I would ask the other members of the Environment Committee in this house to come to the meeting of the flag under this window. I don't know where you've taken that date either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-12-19_U204	Honourable Riigikogu! Since we quickly reached an agreement with the members of the Committee on the Environment, I hope you do not mind that we are already continuing. First reading of Bill 560 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 4 p.m. on 5 January. [[Let's hear it.]] Closure of the sitting at 1.51 p.m.
