ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Initiator waitress Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U2	Hi! So let's discuss a bill bearing number 455. For all those who do not know what is behind this number, this is a draft law amending the State Assets Act. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian state currently owns a stake in 31 companies operating in Estonia. These assets already amounted to EUR 6.4 billion by the end of 2016, with a total turnover of EUR 1.5 billion. Profits amounted to EUR 241 million, 22 companies discontinued year-on-year profit and nine losses. Last year, the State received dividends from companies amounting to EUR 95 million. This year we expect dividends to reach EUR 137 million. The Government of the Republic has submitted to you a draft law amending the State Assets Act, which we want to improve the quality of the management of companies and thus improve the transparency and effectiveness of their activities. The amendments to the draft can be divided into three blocks: changes in the appointment of members of the supervisory board, increased transparency of companies' activities and changes in the regulation of subsidies paid by companies. I'll give you an overview of all these three blocks in more substance at this fine hour of the night. Firstly, for the appointment of members of the competent council, the Government of the Republic is required to set up a nomination committee. This will, according to experts, address the most important lack of governance of public undertakings. So far, the election of the members of the Governing Council has not been sufficiently systematic, competent or transparent. In the model of the nomination committee for larger stock exchange companies, senior managers recognised by the private sector play a key role in the selection of board members. The appointment committee shall propose to the dominant minister the size of the Council's composition, the specific candidates for the members of the Council and the remuneration to be paid to them. The nomination committee is already operating, but it is doing so as a temporary committee under the Government of the Republic Act. By amending the State Assets Act, he becomes a permanent advisory body for ministers. To date, the nomination committee has been able to propose to ministers the election of the members of the board of directors of ten companies. The draft also specifies the rules for avoiding conflicts of interest for a member of the Governing Council. The assessment of conflicts of interest must be substantive, not formal. The evaluation shall also include the interests of the persons concerned with the candidate for a member of the Governing Council. The draft provides that when major public undertakings disclose their activities, similar requirements to those applicable to those listed companies apply. This means that information so far created and used for internal management will also provide the public with a more comprehensive overview of the company. Until now, companies have been obliged to disclose their financial results only in numerical form, and in future they will have to explain where they have achieved their objectives and what and how they have affected them. The larger companies will also have to inform the public immediately about the circumstances or events which have a significant impact on their activities. Increased public attention and a better understanding of companies' activities will motivate companies to act more effectively. Further disclosure requirements will be mandatory for 11 public undertakings, which are also subject to the obligation to set up an audit committee. A fundamental change will take place in the rules on the payment of grants to companies. The current practice of granting grants has been that the subsidies paid have often not been linked to the company's core business. It is therefore necessary to organise the practice and focus, and grants may be paid to an area from which the greatest contribution to the achievement of the company's objectives can be expected. The government estimates this area to be R &amp; D. The draft restricts the payment of subsidies to the R &amp; D activities of the company. The amount of the subsidy shall be reduced to 0,5% of the average consolidated net profit of the three preceding financial years of the company. This will allow for increased dividends and other areas to be financed through the state budget in a transparent manner. As I conclude, the amendments to the draft are reflected in the desire to improve the governance of public undertakings. Professional councils set up by the nomination committee play a major role in this respect, as well as in enhancing the transparency of companies' activities. These are long-prepared changes based on recommendations made by private and public sector experts on the governance of public companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U3	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U4	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! If there is a desire to improve the competence of the members of the supervisory board of a public undertaking, to avoid conflicts of interest and to ensure that the members of the supervisory board have an impeccable reputation, why does the nomination committee form a government, or why do politicians do so? We know that when politicians stick their fingers in somewhere, it ends the same way. Why has it not been considered that these powers could be granted, for example, to the State Chancellery, who is responsible for finding the competent people through the competition for senior civil servants anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U5	Thank you. I think that attention should be paid here, not to the form, but mainly to the content. Let me give you an example. At the moment, the nomination committee has indeed been set up, as I have stated, on the basis of the government committee. I will give you an example of the people who have been appointed by ministers to the nomination committee. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board is Erkki Raasuke, appointed by the Minister of Finance. Are you saying that this is a dependent person manipulated and directed by the Minister of Finance? I don't think he is. Let's see who else is there. Since the nomination committee is currently set up at the level of the government committee, both the Minister for Enterprise and the Minister for Economic Affairs have proposed the appointment of entrepreneurs with an impeccable renomee and long-term management experience. This is David O'Brock and Sven Pertens. They're a long-standing and impeccable renome. Do you sense that they are somehow politically influenced? Honestly, I don't feel it. What do I mean by that? The question is who are the people who belong to this nomination committee. Are they actually fulfilling this objective, which is assigned to them on the basis of fit-and-proper logic, or integrity, of the renomend, and do they have the added value we expect of them? It is certainly important to mention that, in the nomination committee, first, the private sector has an advantage, i.e. four out of six members come from the private sector and, secondly, it has been agreed that the chairman of the board will always be among the four. I think these are very important nuances. True, I think that the nomination committee has been working as a 'government committee' for a short time, but it has already worked and these people are doing a very big job. I'm very positive. I believe that this whole system justifies itself, and at one point we are seeing a situation in which, as has happened before, the membership of the boards of national companies will not change if governments and, essentially, coalitions change.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U6	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U7	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The manning of company councils with party friends or also with active politicians is a serious problem, as it promotes the dangerous interrelation of money and power and will certainly also worsen the quality of governance. In any case, the establishment of a nomination committee in the draft is the right step. It is also crucial, under the leadership of state-owned enterprises, that there is state control over what is happening and that we have a full view of it, which can be better ensured when there are experts in the councils. My question may go a little out of the framework of the draft, but I wonder when the depoliticisation of all the boards of state companies will be decided at the level of the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U8	Thank you. I think that this question does not go out of the framework of this bill at all, it stays exactly within those frames. I've said before that when a person becomes a politician, that doesn't mean that his jurisdiction would be reduced in any way compared to what he had in the past. Absolutely not. I have also said that when a person comes into politics, for example, enters a party, this must not prevent him from being elected to one post or another. This must not be an advantage, but it must not be an obstacle. Look, if this is an obstacle, it's really weird. I think there are certainly many active people in the Riigikogu who invite others to join their party. Let us now think that if we say come and join the party, but consider that in the future this will always be an obstacle for you to compete in any position, it would be illogical and also unfair. However, the situation with the members of the Riigikogu is quite different. I'm telling you, this practice has completely changed. As you know, members of the Riigikogu have been in corporate councils over time, but that is already a thing of the past today. Today, there are some of them in the councils with the mandate of the Riigikogu, but with the mandate of the so-called ministers there are no members of the Riigikogu in the councils, and this should certainly continue in the future. That is, to some extent, why we are currently processing the State Property Act. After all, the nomination committee is currently set up by the government as a temporary committee, and it will cease to exist at the moment when, for example, elections have been held and this government will cease its work. We would certainly like this transparency, clarity and understanding of how to actually man company councils in the future to last even when governments change. The truth is, if you go in depth according to the logic of the nomination committee, you can see that your primary task of making sure that they are already doing this job is to make it clear what kind of expertise one or the other company needs. I think that this is the first task of determining with what knowledge the members of the board of directors need, whether with legal knowledge, financial knowledge or knowledge of a specific sector. This is the first thing the nomination committee does for one company or another. From there comes the next stage, it must be made clear how big this company's board of directors will be in the future. We have also seen that the Councils have been clearly overexploited and disproportionate. Thirdly, I think it will certainly come into play, and this is one of the most important things, who these people will be. It was also your question, who are these people? Once we have established what competence is needed and what size this council could be, the next question arises as to who are the people who are proposed to the general meeting in this particular case. The fourth thing, of course, is what remuneration is, what the appointment committee proposes to the minister. This also depends on the size of the company. Once again, I think that the members of the Riigikogu should certainly not be on the boards of companies as ministers. The two Chancellors of Justice have also pointed this out. Certainly, as I said at the beginning, a party ticket must not be an advantage, but it does not have to be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U9	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The targeting of the aid paid by the public undertaking, so that the aid can only be paid for R &amp; D, is only to be welcomed. Why, though, has the percentage of the promised aid been reduced? If it was 1.5%, now it could be up to 0.5%. What is the result of reducing this percentage?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U11	Thank you. We have a full overview of where money has been spent over the years, how much sport, how much environment, how much education is. It turns out that this is also a much higher 0.5% three-year average than the actual investments that have been made in previous periods. We looked at previous practice, and, believe me, even 0.5% is a good buffer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U12	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U13	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I understand that the draft does not provide for regulation to protect the nomination committee from political machinations or influences. Why haven't you? The second question is that you mentioned that we have 11 companies that are directly affected by this draft. In what time has the nomination committee been ringing up these business councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U14	Thank you. I don't know what you mean by political machinations. On the contrary, I think, in view of the renomees of those people who are members of the nomination committee, that politicians, how did you say, 'do not machinate there'? I remember when I spoke to Erkki Raasukes more than half a year ago, in 2013 he carried out an analysis of the management of the state's companies to Juhan Parts, the Minister of Economic Affairs at that time, which is certainly also accessible online, such a decent 40-page bull, so that he has been very closely involved in this whole process and I proposed that he come to the nomination committee. So he said one important thing. He said that if it was assumed that the nomination committee was just an extension to legalize any decisions in the future, he wouldn't be there. I think that's exactly what you're talking about right now, is there a potential possibility that he's actually an extension. I don't think so. At least I can sincerely look at you and tell you that I have not given any signal to the nomination committee. Well, I've gotten an overview from the nomination committee. I am the General Meeting of Eesti Energia and the Committee has proposed to me that the Board of Eesti Energia should be seven members, that these names and those and the reasons why one person, another person or third person would be needed for this company. I believe that the other ministers have not taken it as an extension of the Committee. I certainly don't. There was another part of your question. [[Interjection.]] That's right, time factor, very good, how much time it takes to make a round after all the businesses. Like I said, we have 31 companies. I looked at the interest after the state of play, because the nomination committee is acting on the basis of a government decision. As of 12 May, a few days ago, they had been able to deal with almost 21 out of 31 companies. Whether decisions have been taken on all of them, I do not know, but to a greater or lesser extent they have dealt with two thirds of all companies at their meetings. There have been seven nomination committee meetings this day. By the way, there was a nomination committee meeting on 17 May, which is now yesterday. I got it written down here. I don't have an overview of when the nomination committee is meeting, it's an independent body, but yes, on 17 May they also gathered. I understand that they're still trying to circle all the companies in the near future. This is the first half of the year in the short term. As you can see, two thirds of companies have already been dealt with to a greater or lesser extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U15	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U16	Mr. Minister! I am completely confused by this non-explanatory statement, but in your presence, the repeated statement that the nomination committee would not be able to act at the level of the government committee. The work of the Government Committee is either fixed-term or has been set up for an indefinite period. Indeed, it is a general rule in this respect that when a government changes, it is possible that the next government will not depend on this decision of the previous government and it may make changes or close something up. What is an important advantage for the additional state body set up by this law if this body only increases the bureaucracy of the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U17	Thank you. I do not think there will be any increase in bureaucracy here. A definite positive effect is that the Commission, which is currently working and has come together several or several times, will cease to exist at the moment when the current government stops its work. If we make changes to the State Property Act, it will no longer depend on the decisions of one government or another, but will be formed on the basis of the State Assets Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U18	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U19	Honorable speaker! Honorable Minister! Googled the words 'national business councils', very soon one interesting article of the evening will be viewed from the screen on 9 April 2003. Its title is 'Res Publica's first loss: politicians remain on the boards of state companies'. The opening paragraph of the article is this: 'Res Publica promised to depoliticise the councils of state-owned enterprises, but had to respond to the demands of coalition partners and leave politicians a good opportunity to earn money. The Government Treaty limits only excessive hogging: only two Councils are allowed. 'Dear Minister, I did not understand whether, now, 14 years later, this depoliticisation will come true or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U20	Thank you. I think that depoliticisation has long been carried out in different political parties. I dare say to you that it will certainly be possible to review later that seven or eight, perhaps even ten years, no member of the Riigikogu of the IRL has been a minister in any company. I think maybe even ten years, seven or eight, I could definitely put my hand under. I know the Social Democrats have done exactly the same thing. There was a big difference, by the way, with the Reform Party who found that members of their Riigikogu could and should be there. This was one of the biggest troubles of the previous coalition after several conflict situations, because we found that members of the Riigikogu do not have to be in companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U21	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U22	Mr. Minister! The people who came up with this nomination committee came forward at least twice in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs over the last year. It was absolutely clear that this committee would be formed, not by law, but as a committee of the Riigikogu. The same Mr Carrot, who is mentioned as the author in the explanatory memorandum, told us the opposite. So what happened, did you tell him to do it differently, or did your chancellor tell him to do it differently? In this draft, was it welded to other problems on the nomination committee or these other problems to this initial committee? What's happened in the meantime, why were we disinformed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U23	Thank you, Mr. Adams! I'm always wondering if you're trying to chase the uniform or the content. But I have no problem, if you are interested in form, we are talking about form, although it is always said that there is an important result in the process. I didn't understand the context of your question. Do you think that nomination committees should not be regulated in the Treasury Act? If you think you shouldn't, it's a discussion place. I assure you once again, the government committee is on a temporary basis, and at some point it will cease to exist. If there is a conscious desire for someone to be only temporary, to act only at some point, it is someone's political will. We don't want it. We want a transparent and clear appointment of professional members to company councils and the use of nomination committees as an interim filter, not to depend on one coalition or on one or the other government. In order for this to be the case, we want it to be very clearly fixed and set out in the Treasury Act. That's our idea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U24	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Sven Sester! The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Mr Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U25	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report on the basis of an extract from Protocol 140 of the meeting of the Economic Commission of the Riigikogu. On Monday, 15 May, the Committee on Economic Affairs held a meeting on draft law 455. Aivar Kokk, Margit Ubaleht, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru, Siim Kiisler, Henrik Mägi as consultant, Kaido Rosin as adviser-secretary and Marin Daniel as adviser. There was no such thing as sometimes or quite often there is no such thing as Kristen Michal. Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Head of the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance Tarmo Carrots were invited to take part in the debate on the second item. On the agenda the draft law amending the State Property Act 455 was sent to the first reading of the debate. Minister of Finance Sven Sester and Head of the Treasury Department Tarmo Carrots gave an overview of the contents and objectives of the draft and answered the questions to be specified. The report is attached to the minutes. Aivar Kokk and Deniss Borodich were deeply interested in this draft. We learned about the new English term fit and professional, which was also translated to us. Jaanus Marrandi stated that the Minister's choice is reasonable, as competition opportunities may also arise. Jaanus Marrand asked why there were no foundations left out. But the Minister's explanations were sufficient and, as you heard earlier, thorough. Jaanus Marrandi was also interested in regulating the remuneration of the nomination committee and the members of the board. But it remained so and so. There was such a thing that the Chairman of the Board's salary was still tens of times higher and in the end the coefficient remained 1.5 minimum wages. There was such a statute that a little up or down there. The draft removes the right of the Minister of Finance to propose the appointment of company board members. The decision was short: to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped. The result of the vote was consensual: by Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler. It was decided to propose a deadline of 24 May at 5 a.m. for the submission of amendments. This was also decided by consensus: by Aivar Kokk, Toomas Kivimägi, Deniss Borodich, Erki Savisaar, Jaanus Marrandi, Märt Sults, Raivo Põldaru and Siim Kiisler. The minutes are signed by Aivar Kokk and Margit Ubaleht. The excerpt is made by Margit Beeht. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U26	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Free Party Group, Artur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U27	Ladies and gentlemen, This law, or the fact that such a law has been made, or that such a nomination committee is being created, let's say, is an example of how poor our political culture is. This is an example of how important the so-called political food chains are in Estonia. These food chains are needed for parties to breathe and place loyal people in places where they would receive a little extra. I say that this is an example of a bad political culture because, in fact, nothing would prevent us from manning the councils of 100% state-owned companies even before the adoption of this law, so that there would be competent people who would not engage in party hogging there, but would act in the interests of the state and state-owned enterprises. But it never happened. What bothers us very much is the need to bring a whole law into force to change such a culture. As Mr Adams rightly mentioned, we are simply creating additional bureaucracy for the country. I'm glad the nomination committee is manned by reliable people. But in fact, knowing the strength of the party food chain, it's like a seven-headed dragon, you're gonna knock down one head, and the next head's gonna rise again, it doesn't give us the assurance that this party or political manning of these places doesn't go on, that there's no party interest in controlling state companies. There are really nice people in the nomination committee now, but this law does not create such a situation that the next government cannot appoint a nomination committee that is loyal to the government or coalition. And then again, under the coalition agreement, we're discussing who could get into these positions. Second, the subsidies. First of all, the subsidies distributed by public undertakings will be reduced. It's a two-way thing. Again, even so far, it was in the statutes of the state companies themselves how these subsidies can be distributed. So far, there was also the fact that grants should be distributed to the area in which the company operates or to the community in which it operates. Nevertheless, for example, the internal rules of the Port of Tallinn did not interfere with the distribution of money to the Tartu Botanical Garden by the members of the Supervisory Board of the Port of Tallinn, although it was as if the Port of Tallinn had to distribute money to marine activities. What do we mean by that? This one law, which is positive when we look at it, does not mean that we can lose a sharp look and should not continue to fight the 'political food chains'. They need to keep a very sharp eye on them. The Free Party will continue to keep an eye on it, regardless of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U28	The Minister has expressed his wish to participate in the negotiations. Under the Rules of Procedure, he has that right. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. The 11-hour debate has come to an end for me, and you will certainly continue to deal with the following points. I think that it is quite appropriate to take some stock here and, in particular, to talk about the last point. I feel good because I thought it was a very good political debate and those 11 hours went very fast. I regret that no reform party has been seen in the Chamber at the time of the final item, which is about to end. None! That's a real shame. What are we working on? We are working on making state-owned companies more transparent, their better management and the publication of their data in the future in the way that stock exchange companies do, but I do not see any member of the Reform Party in the hall. Honestly, it makes me a little sad. Looks like we're a little superficial, looks like we're too title-centred. I thought I'd just mark it. Once again, I am very pleased with this draft itself, and I feel that there is a consensus here on this draft. First of all, members of the Riigikogu should not be on the boards of these business companies. I think it has also arrived at the Reform Party, whose members of the Council were there for years. Now we're gonna seal it with the law and it's not gonna be possible to get anyone there. Secondly, I think that in the future, larger state-owned companies will start to provide taxpayers quarterly information on how they behave and what their financial data are. In addition to providing normal figures, they also provide explanations. I believe that this is actually a new level in national companies. Of course we can't get over or over the nomination committee. I think we have reached a whole new level of company board manning. Yes, I understand that this has been difficult for the Reform Party, but I believe that corporate governance must be brought to a new level so that we no longer see votes like those of one owner in the Port of Tallinn: 3: 3 and 4: 4 votes by one owner. This owner is the state. I think we'll be on a whole new level in the future. Really, I'm very happy. It's six minutes out of three, but we're taking a big step forward in history, finishing our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U30	There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. First reading of Bill 455 is complete. I will set the deadline of 24 May at 5 p.m. for the submission of amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U31	The next item is the first reading of the draft law on ratification of the Rail Baltic/Rail Baltica Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. The initiator's waitress is Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U32	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! If the Minister of Finance, Sven Sester, held a discussion with you for hours and hours, probably because he had many new ideas to introduce you, then I will be in front of you with an old and long-discussed subject. It can be said that the topic of Rail Baltic has been discussed in Estonia for years or even decades. But I will now be more specific about this agreement, which the Government of the Republic gave the Prime Minister a mandate to sign, and which the Prime Minister of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania signed on 31 January inclusive. Just as any international agreement needs ratification in the Riigikogu. Transport connections between the Baltic States, including Estonia, and other Europe are essential for the development of these countries. Modern, fast and efficient connections can be considered as the basis for both social and economic development. Rail Baltic will be part of the trans-European road network defined by Regulation No 1315/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. More specifically, the priorities for the development of the TEN-T network are set out in Regulation No 1316/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council. These regulations set out the network sections with the highest priority in European terms, the transport corridors of the TEN-T core network. Estonia is covered by the North Sea-Baltic Core Network Corridor, which includes not only Rail Baltic but also Via Baltica, Tallinn and Muuga ports and Tallinn airport. The development of international transport corridors will make it possible to increase the internal coherence and regional balance of the country. Rail Baltic is not a separate railway, but part of the Estonian transport network. All residents of Estonia can use the fast travel connection if they wish. The existing railway will be connected to Rail Baltic primarily through the terminal built in Tallinn for Ülemiste and the multimodal terminal planned for Muuga and built in the framework of the Rail Baltic project and the planned freight station in Pärnu. As Rail Baltic's future travel and freight transport depends on the development of the entire transport network in Estonia, it is important to look at it in the context of the entire transport infrastructure, whose balanced development is supported by earlier and recent decisions on infrastructure investments. In the Rail Baltic route, the three Baltic States agreed years ago, first in 1994 to approve the Baltic region's vision for 2010. Previous agreements have been based on further decisions of the European Commission, the other Baltic States and also the Republic of Estonia, for example the intergovernmental agreement relating to the construction of Rail Baltic on 31 January. This agreement has been sent for ratification by the governments of the three Baltic States to their national parliaments. The Government of the Republic of Estonia linked the agreement to the completion of a feasibility and cost-benefit analysis based on updated data sent to the Riigikogu. The results of the analysis are already available to members of the Riigikogu as well as to the public since the beginning of May this year. By the law in question, the Republic of Estonia ratifies the intergovernmental agreement on the development of the Rail Baltic railway connection. This agreement establishes as a legally binding instrument the obligations of the countries that need to be fulfilled so that Rail Baltic railway connections can be established with Central Europe through the Baltic States. The agreement determines the overall technical parameters of this project, the time frame for the railway route and the time frame for the construction of the railway. In addition, the pre-conditions for the construction of Rail Baltic, their performer, the role of RB Rail AS in the fulfilment of the preconditions and the construction of the railway until full operational availability is reached. The agreement also regulates the infrastructure to be built and the ownership of the land under it, as well as the conditions for financing the construction. In addition, access to Rail Baltic infrastructure will be agreed and general guidelines will be given for the management of Rail Baltic for the designation of an infrastructure manager. The Treaty will be ratified by the Riigikogu pursuant to § 121 (4) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, according to which the Riigikogu will ratify and denounce the treaties of the Republic of Estonia whereby the state will assume property obligations. Upon ratification and entry into force of the interstate agreement, the Estonian state will have a separate international obligation to Latvia and Lithuania to complete the Rail Baltic railway by 2025 and to start using the rail link in 2026. The agreement does not create, alter or terminate the obligations of the Republic of Estonia towards the European Union. The same commitment is made by Latvia and Lithuania before Estonia and the European Union. The existence or absence of a transnational agreement may have a significant impact on the success of the following grants from CEF. The CEF Regulation for the current financial period provides that actions in the field of transport involving a cross-border paragraph or parts thereof may receive Union financial assistance only if a written agreement has been concluded between those countries for the completion of the cross-border sections. During this budgetary period of the European Union, the Commission has considered the joint declarations made in the applications, the operational level agreements concluded between RB Rail AS and the Baltic States and the joint letter of support drawn up by the governments of the Baltic States to be sufficient for the grant, assuming that the process of concluding the Rail Baltic transnational agreement to be included in the CEF applications will be effectively completed and the agreement will be concluded and enter into force. It is also important to bear in mind that the role of an appropriate international agreement places high priority on the preconditions for EU support both in the current and in the forthcoming funding period. On 11 May, the Act on the ratification of the Agreement already passed a first reading in the Parliament of the Republic of Latvia, where it obtained 73 votes in favour, no abstentions and no votes against. The cost-benefit study of Rail Baltic was carried out between October 2015 and March 2017. The Estonian Government had decided that ratification would be expected in Estonia until the results of this study became public. The purpose of the cost-benefit study was to determine the economic justification for the construction of the Rail Baltic project, the Warsaw-Tallinna route, in line with common principles, of a new, fast and European standard gauge rail link, based on up-to-date data. The results of the study will form the basis for further financing of the project. The analysis shows that the Rail Baltic project is a profitable infrastructure investment for Estonian society as a whole. The project is profitable from a socio-economic point of view, as its economic benefits go beyond economic losses. The economic viability of the project depends on how the main advantages of the project are secured: speed of train movement, environmental impacts, use of local labour and materials. Market analysis and traffic forecasts show that Rail Baltic has potential for both passenger and freight transport. The total cost of the project is estimated at approximately 5.8 billion euros, of which 1.345 billion will be invested on Estonian territory. The financial needs, i.e. the difference between the costs of the investment and the revenues generated by the new railway, have been calculated. This is 94,18% of the total investment cost, which, in the case of investments from Estonia, means EUR 268 million of the state's own contribution to the construction of Rail Baltic. With a discount rate of 5%, the project has a positive net present value of EUR 879 million, at basic prices for 2015. The benefit-cost ratio is 1,19. The corresponding internal rate of return is 6,32%. Without EU funding, investment and financial indicators reflect negative results, stressing the importance of ensuring EU funding. I will also stop for a moment in the context of socio-economic income. For both Rail Baltic and other infrastructure objects built from public funds, it is important to bear in mind that the revenue generated by the object is mainly socio-economic in nature. All major infrastructure sites, whether roads, railways or water networks, must meet broader objectives than generating direct financial revenue from infrastructure. In the event of a direct high and rapid financial return, the infrastructure would be set up by private companies wishing to make a quick return on the money invested in the infrastructure. If entrepreneurs are not ready to do so, the state must take part. However, in the case of strategic investments, the European Union has created opportunities to earn support for infrastructure. It is important for Estonia that people living in peripheral areas also have a permanent connection with the rest of the country, and Europe that the peoples living in peripheral areas of Europe have a permanent link with the centres of Europe. To put it simply, the prerequisite for investment, both with state support and with European Union support, is that a private operator is mostly not prepared to finance such projects in full. In the case of infrastructure, it is important that the owner is able to maintain it in such a condition that the built road or railway can be used for its intended purpose. Essentially, this means that sufficient resources must be planned to maintain the object while it is being used. The money intended for the maintenance of state roads comes directly from the state budget in Estonia each year. Tax revenue is used, i.e. indirectly, all Estonian taxpayers pay for the maintenance of the entire Estonian road network, even if this person is not driving and does not even have a driving licence. Railways offer a considerable alternative, as rail charges are paid by both freight and passenger carriers, which means that most of the costs are borne by the user of the infrastructure. Rail Baltic must be seen as the way we have planned this project in cooperation with the three Baltic States and the European Commission in particular: fast and environmentally friendly transport infrastructure that connects the three Baltic States and Finland with each other and with other Europe. The task of the state is to ensure the performance of this infrastructure and its compliance with national objectives, for example by better connecting Tallinn, Rapla and Pärnu. It is also important to mitigate the potential negative environmental impacts of infrastructure building. There is reason to confirm that we are on the right track in this direction. This is confirmed, for example, by the recent decision of the Environmental Board to coordinate the Strategic Environmental Assessment of the Rail Baltic project. This year, the introduction by de jure rural elders of the Rail Baltic de facto route is still pending. In the same way as other transport infrastructure, Rail Baltic can be considered as an enabler. One railway or road cannot be an end in itself; it is a means of achieving something bigger, whether it is thanks to better transport connections that additional investments are coming to Estonia and the resulting economic benefits or the Renaissance of the environmentally friendly mode of transport and the lives saved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U33	The first question to the Minister is asked by Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U34	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I must point out that carriers of goods and passengers do not pay for Estonian railways, but the Estonian state, the Estonian taxpayer pays a lot of subsidies: 25 million for passenger traffic, for example, plus 7 million for freight traffic last year, for which no money was paid because there were no trade flows. However, in those countries where the standard of living is less than 75% of the European Union average, the level of aid granted by the European Union is 85% and the countries with the richest five countries are not given this money. How far is Estonia from this 75%, and when are we expected to reach the categories of five richest countries? If it is necessary for Rail Baltic to continue financing, so that Estonia does not become rich too quickly, what does the government intend to do about it? If your plan still fails, what will you do? If European Union funding is interrupted, we will have an obligation under this agreement to pay for the entire project from our own pockets.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U35	Thank you. I have bad news for you: Estonia, among the five richest countries in Europe, will probably not reach the deadline that Andrus Ansip said. As far as funding is concerned, indeed, the Member States of the European Union have not yet adopted the principles of the next funding period. We expect that during our Presidency, already in September, the first informal discussions will take place on what the next funding period could look like. But formally, the Commission will come up with its proposal in the next year, 2018. What do we have? We have specific contacts with both the Commissioners and the senior officials of the Directorates, who all confirm that Rail Baltic as such is a priority project. It meets the criteria that need to be met in order to be able to obtain funding to the extent that the international agreement under ratification also provides for. The guarantee will come in 2020 at the latest, once the next budget period has been agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U36	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U37	Good minister! Latvia and Lithuania have promised not to pursue the project further if CEF funding for the third period comes under 80%. This raises the question of whether Estonia will continue on its own in this case. If not, are the costs incurred so far planned to be written in the chimneys? If, for example, 50% of funding is received in the third period of CEF and Latvia says that it will not continue, should all countries, including Estonia, pay back the money received from the European Union according to the current agreements?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U38	Thank you for your question. Indeed, three Member States have already received significant support from CEF1 and CEF2, a total of 765 million, of which Estonia accounts for 226 million. For example, Latvia has requested the possibility of using this money primarily for the solution concerning the connection between the city centre of Riga and the airport. Applications have already been submitted for CEF3 funding. From CEF3, Latvia will apply for money for a general path plan throughout Latvia's territory. We have no reason to believe that if this decision is made now, in the summer, that this support will be lower. It also states in this agreement that our condition is that funding will continue to the extent it has been so far. If this does not prove true, the three Baltic States will make a joint decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U39	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U40	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The environmental impact assessment has not yet been completed, many proposals and comments were made during the public disclosure process and improvements are still ongoing. What happens if the contract cannot be fulfilled on the basis of regional plans? For example, it appears that the speed of 240 kilometres per hour, as set out in the agreement, is disproportionate to the environmental impact. There have already been similar cases in Poland. What happens if we can't build the route on the contract, and the plans don't see this possibility in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U41	This speed is not something unique on the European railway, so such infrastructure has been tested. Of course, by developing Rail Baltic, we will do our utmost to ensure that environmental interests and environmental impacts are best taken into account. I am also thinking, for example, that it would not happen what is said that large game cannot cross Rail Baltic. Now your reference that there are differences of opinion. Indeed, there are differences of opinion about this project, but I believe that Estonia's best experts will draw a conclusion that takes into account all the arguments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U42	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. You've touched a little bit of what the Latvians are asking for. But the King of Ahti said, 'Clean the mouth', that euro money cannot be used to build roads, although it is heard that the Lithuanians are also planning to make Via Baltica for this money. It has also been said in the Committee on Economic Affairs that the Tartu railway was not eligible for aid during this period. However, Urve Palo already said in January 2015 that Estonia will also apply for the reconstruction of the Tallinn-Tartu railway. Can you confirm that the road cannot be built for euro money and the Tartu railway was not eligible for aid? In short, we need clarity on what Estonia wants to do for this money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U44	Thank you, dear Arno Bridge. I didn't understand your question. You probably know as well as I do that most of Estonia's infrastructure projects have recently been carried out with the help of the European Union. The question is which fund will the money come from? I'm trying to figure out what you asked me. Your question was probably whether the same money that we are now applying for for Rail Baltic, i.e. the European track gauge, could have been used for the old Tallinn railway with track gauge. If this was the case, I will reply that, under the European Union regulations relating to the TEN-T Corridor and specifically to the CEF financing of infrastructure projects, the European Commission will only invest in rail if it is a project of common interest in the European sense, which is intended to remove bottlenecks, to establish missing links and, in particular, to improve cross-border sections. In particular, priority shall be given to the construction of a standard track (1435 mm). So we can be sure that the Rail Baltic project, the European track gauge, is a priority. There are always projects that are important for Estonia in particular. They are less priority in European terms, and it is extremely unlikely that they will receive funds from this fund, as more priority projects from other countries are also calling for the same funds. After all, it has been said that there are still cross-border projects in Europe; there are railway projects that can be mentioned in the case of the Trieste-Divaca railways between Slovenia and Italy or the railways of Reggio Calabria. So there are projects like this waiting. But coming back to the question, I say that the fact that we are going to build Rail Baltic does not mean that we do not contribute to increasing the speed of trains in the direction of Tartu and Narva.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U45	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! What is the cost of the Estonian share of Rail Baltic with Muuga terminal and local stops? It's been said about 1.3 billion, I get it, I think without them. Why is it that part of Latvia contains airport connections, but we need to add such things ourselves? How much do you need to rebuild local roads?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U47	It is not true that we have to build the airport connection ourselves. The first part of Rail Baltic, which will be completed in Estonia, is Ülemiste tramroad. It is now being built, it will be completed this year and it will be part of Rail Baltic. Now the question is whether Muuga multimodal terminal and Pärnu and Ülemiste railway station are included in the price. Yes, it is. Are local stops currently included in the estimate, in this 1,345 billion? No, it's not. There are proposals for local stations in the county plans where these stops could be. Besides stops in Tallinn, Raplas and Pärnu, Rapla and Pärnu came only at the end of 2014 and thanks to pressure from the Riigikogu, these ten stops could be Assaku, Luige, Saku, Kurtna, Kohila, Järvakandi, Kaisma, Tootsi, Kilksama and Häädemeeste. In addition, four turns for each stop must be planned for the time being. The price of one turn is EUR 250000.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U48	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U49	Thank you. Madam Secretary! There is a statement that the Tallinn-Tartu railway is not the core network of the TEN-T network. The memo sent by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to the Riigikogu states that the Tallinn-Tartu railway is a core network, but does not belong to the core network corridor according to the regulation. On the official maps of the eight corridors of the European Union, this railroad is marked. Does the Tallinn-Tartu railway belong to the TEN-T core network? Is he one of the eight corridors? Has the representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications shown interest in the current or future removal from the Tallinn-Tartu rail corridor maps or TEN-T core network?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U50	Honourable questioner! In European terms, there are different things in the corridor and the core network. The hallway belongs to Pärnu. The Tartu line is a core network, but is not part of the core network corridor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U51	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U52	Thank you. Madam Secretary! I have read both this Ernst & Young cost-benefit analysis and the materials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. Now I'm embarrassed because Ernst & Young's cost-benefit analysis is about the intermodal terminal, but the materials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications talk about the multimodal terminal. Which terminal, then, is it planned to be built on Muuga, multimodal or intermodal? Perhaps you could also explain what the difference between them is, perhaps, not all of our colleagues know these terms, and also how much this difference between ministry documents and Ernst & Young will change this cost-benefit analysis?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U53	The multimodal terminal is a freight terminal with possible operations between different modes of transport. In the case of Rail Baltic, as part of the planned project, it has also been included in the construction costs, that Muuga will have a multimodal terminal. This is the place where goods arriving from different modes of transport are transhipped. When we are talking about rail, the 1520 track gauge is loading the goods to the rail at 1435 gauge, but also the goods from the road and from the port are being transhipped. The same major terminals are planned in Salaspils in Latvia, i.e. the trade flows in Latvia do not pass through Riga, but they pass through Salaspils from the side of Riga. These are multimodal terminals. Smaller cargo stations are also planned in Pärnu in Estonia and are also planned in Latvia and Lithuania. In fact, there is no substantive difference between an intermodal and a multimodal freight terminal; what can be done there is the same thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U54	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U55	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In January, Prime Minister Ratas said that there would be 3,000 more jobs in Estonia during the construction period. At the same time, we know that we have a shortage of labour. It's not like this railroad is going to be built with a cart and a shovel. We know that our Kalevi sons have fled to Finland, a better berryland. The question arises as to where the workforce will be taken to fill these 3000 jobs. If it is not found in Estonia, is it planned to bring in this workforce elsewhere? If this workforce comes from elsewhere, will it remain in Estonia? There have been rumors that workers could come from Ukraine. Can you enlighten me on this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U56	Dear Mart Helme, You know as well as I do that there are limits to the number of third-country workers in Estonia. So scaring that our Rail Baltic will only be built by workers from Ukraine is not true. I think we agree that this could be an infrastructure project that gives Kalevipoegs who have left Estonia a reason to come back here and find work similar to a decent reward here in Estonia. After all, there is no reason to be away from the family and to work in Finland when investments have recovered in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U57	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Estonian Railways and Elron would be bankrupt if they were not owned by the Estonian State. The future railway will probably not be maintained by the Estonian state. What kind of company do you think can manage it in the form it's being built? I will also stop at the research that was carried out on behalf of an interested party. Would it not make sense for the Estonian Government to order a small audit of this study?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U59	Thank you for your question. I understand you're suggesting we order an investigation. This study has been carried out precisely on the basis of the guidance provided by the European Commission as project donor. There is such a document as 'Guide to Cost-Benefit Analysis of Investment Projects'. Exactly according to the instructions there, this study has been carried out. Your concern is understandable, because the trade flows of Estonian Railways, i.e. the transport of old track gauges, have indeed fallen as a stone in recent years, which cannot be said of what is happening on our roads. If you have recently happened to travel to Via Baltica, if not, ask Mart Helme, sitting behind you, he has definitely been to Pärnu lately, then you know that there is a pretty tight concentration of car trains, from all Estonian roads this concentration is the densest there. We're constantly doing research on what kind of trade flows are on the roads. The latest data show that last year there were over 12 metres of freight trains in Via Baltica a day 1418. Over the last five years, there has been a 44% increase. The increase in freight transport intensity between Estonia and Finland is also likely to be illustrated by the fact that Tallink, for example, had towed trailers with trucks in 2011 in the circular of 118000, and last year the number had risen to 209000. Let's think about the 1418 truck crossing the Ikla border, the increase in their number has been extremely fast. It is worth keeping in mind that one train takes 50 truckloads of goods off the highway. Fifty truckloads! But this cost-benefit analysis takes into account that there are only 12 freight trains per day. So there's plenty of stuff on the highway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U60	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In your introductory statement, you mentioned that the project is very socio-economically viable. Please state the most important points or features of this profitability that have emerged from this fresh analysis. As I know, some of the cost-benefit indicators also have clear financial figures taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U62	Indeed, the results of the socio-economic analysis show that the biggest victory, if we can get a rail shift around road transport, is the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, so we will also contribute to achieving our climate policy objectives, and it is worth noting the reduction in air pollution, time savings and travel savings. But in addition to socio-economic benefits, costs have also been considered. It has been said that if we manage to bring a certain flow of goods to the railroad, the state will certainly lose its excise revenue because there are fewer heavy goods vehicles on the road. The operating profit of the transport operators of this particular mode of transport is also decreasing. These socio-economic costs have taken exactly the same European guide into account a real financial assessment for 30 years. Indeed, we can see that the improvement in safety will bring over EUR 800 million in 30 years, while the savings in passenger driving time will be 2.4 billion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U63	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! My question started at the end of your speech when you presented the draft before us and said that Rail Baltic must be taken as an agreement between the three Baltic States and also with the European Commission. Then you said an interesting sentence that Rail Baltic will connect three Baltic countries and Finland to Europe. That's what I'm interested in, Finland. I will read this agreement as I read it, but this view of Finland does not come directly from here. Yes, Article 6 says we work together, remove any obstacles, but how do Finnish trade flows still reach Rail Baltic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U65	Currently, Finland is participating in the Rail Baltic project as an observer. If this was a trick question and you meant whether we had already taken into account the construction of the tunnel, then I say no, it has not been taken into account. Although in the joint work of six parties, these are the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the Republic of Estonia and the Republic of Finland, the City Government of Helsinki and Tallinn, the Harju County Government and its analogue of Uusimaa have started with studies necessary for the construction of the tunnel, for which European Union funding is also available. The Finnish trade flows should reach us through cooperation between Muuga and the port of Vuosaar; they will come by sea to Muuga. They also play a pretty important role in this cost-benefit analysis. All my meetings with colleagues from Finland only last Friday the Finnish Minister of Economic Affairs in Tallinn has signaled that Finns are very interested in this mode of transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U66	Martin Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U67	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! This Ernst & Young analysis has been discussed several times here. This analysis has also been very seriously criticised since the kilometres between cities have been dislocated. For example, Table 82 also states that the emissions of passenger cars and trains are zero. When trains run electric, it's possible. Or do you think we have electric cars with zero emissions when Rail Baltic gets started? After all, all the socio-economic benefits you bring to us here have actually been brought together in such a way that all conditions must be ideal. You're always telling us here that you could and should and should be and we hope and somebody's interested somewhere. As soon as any input in this Ernst & Young analysis is no longer perfect, the entire card cabin will collapse. How can you sell a loss project like this to the public?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U68	No, I do not agree that this is the basis of a perfect situation or environment. I cannot speak in a specific way, because this railroad does not yet exist. I was taught in English language class that this is the kind of thing that needs to be spoken of in the form of the future. As regards the Ernst & Young study, we have to bear in mind that, in the case of trade flows, it is clearly stated that we have no reason to believe that these trade flows would reach the railway in the first year of operation and that 100% of infrastructure charges could be taken into account. On the contrary, as far as trade flows are concerned, only 30% of the potential has been exploited in the first year. Therefore, this study has also said that we have to take into account that the operator does not pay 100% for fixed expenditure in the years 2026 to 2031 and the subsidy, which covers the maintenance cost deficit, is on the three Baltic States, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in five years, i.e. 2026 to 2031. EUR 28.6 million in 2008, i.e. three countries and five years in total.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U69	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U70	Thank you. Good minister! At the meeting in Latvia, the leaders of Rail Baltic said that dozens, if not hundreds, would be coming. As we know, there are also many disputes about such procurements. In Latvia, public procurement is contested only in court. This may lead to a situation where one procurement affects the start of another and confuses the timetable. In the same way, the plans also happened when they were not ready for the final date for eligibility and had to be paid out of the Estonian state budget, not for euro money. What is the readiness in case these public procurements actually delay construction beyond the eligibility deadline?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U71	Thank you for your question. First of all, the fact that construction takes place in stages is a desired way, because it provides an opportunity not to increase the volume immediately so that some companies do not feel sufficiently capable to compete. That is why the Estonian state holds a large part of the procurement. It is certainly not possible to guarantee here that everything is going to be smoother than what has been done in the case of road procurement, but let us admit that a certain degree of professionalism has been achieved. There is no reason to anticipate a clearly malicious dispute. Such risks have been taken into account, including the timing taking into account that disputes may arise, taking into account how and within what time they can be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U72	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U73	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Now I'm asking you as the Otepää, the closest railway station in Palupera, is 15 kilometers away. But I still have no idea (maybe because these materials have been classified for such a long time), which are the reasons why the Rail Baltic route has not been built on the existing railway in the Tallinn-Valga direction. Both Pärnu and Valga are more or less the same land as Riga. The differences in rail-pair size between Europeans are no obstacle. What are these arguments: has Estonia not wanted to go to the European Commission to ask for this permission? I will look at Article 2. Vilnius and Kaunas have received an exception, why have we not done so? I still do not understand whether it is wrong in us that we cannot ask and are not resourceful, or whether there is a mistake in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U74	If the question was why Rail Baltic is going through Pärnu, I say that the Prime Ministers have now signed this agreement as such because the decision that the route is going through Pärnu was taken in 2011. If you ask whether building a railway through Tartu where trains could travel just as quickly would be less painful, then I say that the existing route does not correspond to the European track gauge. If you think that this might still be possible, I suggest you get acquainted with, for example, the Iberian line width used by Portugal and Spain. They also have a different track width, but international railway lines are still built within the European standard width, as this is the way in which funding is guaranteed. Why in 2011 was it decided to establish a route through Pärnu and not through Tartu? Because the route through Pärnu is about 100 kilometres shorter and therefore several hundred million euros cheaper. The second reason is that no one from Latvia will meet us there by rail with a European width. Work on the railway with the existing gauge of Tartu will, of course, take place. We are contributing to the Tartu Community and there are many curves that need to be straightened. If a railway with a new track gauge were to be built in Tartu, I think that Tartu's quite dense settlement would be a problem in building a new railway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U75	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U76	Thank you, manager. Madam Secretary! I will come back to this Finnish question. The lively and enthusiastic interest of the Finns is understandable to me when we take responsibility and build this path. But it is precisely the fact that Finland lacks this participation and responsibility that worries me. At the end of last week, the Latvian Prime Minister Kucinskis met with the Finnish Prime Minister Sipilä and allegedly also received an invitation to become a member of Rail Baltic. You don't know the face Juha Sipilä made on it, did he laugh or hid his face? Is this some kind of joint invitation from the Baltic States to the Finnish side, and why is it not accepted?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U77	This issue was also raised at my meeting with the Finnish Minister for Economic Affairs, which was mentioned earlier by Finland. I don't know what Juha Sipilä did, I wasn't on the wall as a fly so I could have witnessed it. What I do know is that there are negotiations with Finns on the form in which they could move forward from observer status. The problem is that we have an agreement that the route will remain in the ownership of each Member State. So what the Finns are asking is what the three Baltic States expect from them in particular. This has to be agreed between us first.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U78	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U79	Thank you. Madam Secretary! At a conference in Riga, a representative of the Polish railway explained that trains traveling at 100 miles [160 km] an hour are dangerous to their elk and that the resistance of local people is also great. Thus, they prefer railways on the Lithuanian and Polish border, where trains travel at 140 kilometres per hour. Are our reindeer smarter, and is our people's opposition less important than that of the Polish people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U80	Thank you. This Rail Baltic conference, where I attended, was also the Polish Deputy Minister of Transport. At this conference, I heard for the first time from the Polish Minister that Poland is contributing to a possible speed increase on this railway route. They have now committed themselves to the construction of a railway corridor, including Rail Baltic, which requires improvement of the section between Bialystok and Warsaw. The goal is 100 miles per hour. The European Commission has also contributed EUR 400 million to this. The improvement of the section between Bialystok and the border between Lithuania and Poland awaits its time and financing decisions. However, it was at this conference in Riga that Poland submitted a request for Connecting Europe funding in February 2017. So this passage could be completed at the same time as Rail Baltic. The maximum speed of 160 kilometres per hour is not the same as that of Rail Baltic, but it will play a role primarily for passengers travelling to Warsaw. Freight transport provides the same speed as Rail Baltic route, or 120 kilometres per hour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U81	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U82	We're having such a wonderful fairy tale here. Let me tell you a fairy tale. It's from the Bible. Traders discuss with each other how they go to the next town and make so much money and then they go to the next town and make so much money. But when they're on their way, the robbers will rob them, and they won't make any money in any city. Now, we've got this whole story here in the coercive way of speaking. But I'd like to get rid of one of your accusations like I'm scaring people off the grid by recruiting labour. No, I'm not scared. I just want to know where this labor comes from. My question, however, is this: is the government led by the Centre Party planning to realise our idea of creating an agency for return migration so that Estonian people come home from Finland and elsewhere and get a job at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U83	I have to admit the gap in my education, the first time I hear you have an idea like this. However, the Centre Party has had a draft law on the Estonians' coming home for years. Our very important goal is to give people a reason to come back. They come back when the economy grows and there's work here. Infrastructure investments will certainly make an important contribution to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U84	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue on this issue of socio-economic benefits and objects. Indeed, Estonian highways, Estonian Railways and Elron are so-called socio-economic objects and serve the people. They belong to the state. The state's paying them off. I'm still asking which company is going to manage such a socio-economic object. Either she's crazy or she thinks she's getting benefits from somewhere. We have learned from all kinds of studies that the economic benefits do not come from it, that the benefits are socio-economic. But what kind of company can survive with socio-economic benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U86	It is important to understand that these costs, which are necessary for the management of the route, are earned after a five-year start-up period through the use of this route. Socio-economic benefits are the overall benefits to the countries of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Indeed, the socio-economic benefits are not cash, which would be equivalent to European Union subsidies. But if it were a self-reliant project, the European Union would never be paid in this way. The infrastructure manager is likely to remain a joint undertaking from three countries. Whoever's on that line, who owns the rolling stock, will be found by tender. It's not a country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! A large number of Estonian residents oppose this project and they oppose it for many reasons, starting with the damage to the environment and ending with the fact that we take a great responsibility for future generations with such a non-conforming project. What do you say to people who really don't want this project from the heart, and is anyone responsible if it really fails?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U88	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U89	Mrs. Krista Aru! Last November, the European Greens commissioned a study explaining how Rail Baltic is viewed. Turns out those people who said they had enough information about Rail Baltic supported this project. I have the day-to-day, the latest public opinion surveys or a brief summary of them. According to this summary, Rail Baltic is supported by 58% of Estonian residents. 58% said two days before the Treaty reached the Riigikogu that they would support the Rail Baltic project. Similar results were obtained in November. Among the supporters of the project are more people who believe that the decision on the project should be based on the interests of the whole region, not just of Estonia. They tend to support Rail Baltic more. Those who consider that the construction of Rail Baltic should be guided by a vision of the future rather than by economic profitability tend to support Rail Baltic more. The main arguments of the project supporters are better links with Europe, comfort and speed of travel and the environment. With regard to the environmental perspective, rail transport is much more sustainable in terms of environmental protection than road transport.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U90	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U91	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! Those who doubt the meaning of this project and those who hesitate are not only members of the Free Party and the EKRE in this Chamber, but are also members of other political groups. These doubters and those who hesitate have so far been calmed by their colleagues with some of the talk that, you know, we will quietly start with the work that Estonia will have to do anyway, and then we will find out what will happen to this European funding in the future. Can you introduce the plan for the next few years, which works will then begin? Are these the kind of objects and work that will not cause us at least great harm if, for some reason, the whole major project should not be completed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U92	We are now in the position that the Rail Baltic route corridor has been established in three counties and three detailed plans have been drawn up: Ülemiste and Pärnu passenger terminal and the maintenance depot of the planned rolling stock in Rae municipality. There have been public displays of wholesale planning, where the environmental impact assessment of the plans has been presented. Over 4,000 people have attended 86 meetings. Speaking of construction, it can be said that the Ülemiste tram route is currently being built. This tram route is the first step, planned by Pärnu and Ülemiste terminal is the next step. We will also start working on the planning of Muuga terminal. If it is a matter of soil building, I have also been asked during these discussions, which end will Rail Baltic be built, either by the Latvian border towards Tallinn or by Muuga towards Latvia. They don't do it politically. As early as 2014, the three Baltic States prepared the first joint application for the construction of Rail Baltic, then the first CEF application round. It provided funding to carry out a study on "Creating the construction concept of Rail Baltic and analysing the solutions of construction logistics," which was Estonia's wish. This study gives the answers to how it is best to start building a path. Behind this study are the best experts who are able to give advice on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U93	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U94	Thank you. Good minister! Well, no convincing your explanations, no! But my question is very simple. This cost-benefit analysis appeals to Russian goods and Finnish transit. Clearly, Russian goods will not come unless we join the CIS. This political decision has long been made in Russia. And there's no Finnish merchandise. The Rekas are driving now, but they're driving because it's much cheaper than carrying freight by train. All of Finland's goods will be transferred by Baltic Sea ships or by rail through Russia, where rail tariffs will be 20 to 30% cheaper than today in Estonia. If we put another 5 or 6 billion in here, can you guarantee that after that the Rail Baltic tariffs will be 40% cheaper in the middle, so it's worth the Finns to start hauling this way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U95	Thank you, Honourable Henn Põllamaas! Maybe my arguments weren't convincing because you didn't listen to me. I hear you giggling and joking in that corner of yours. If the Minister's answers were to be heard, maybe some of the answers will come along. First of all, the cost-benefit analysis of Rail Baltic. These trade flows are not just those that start in Estonia or end here. The route here has been taken as one. As a broad-eyed person, as you are, you will understand that these trade flows coming from the east can also come from Belarus, for example, Latvia. [[Interjection.]] Of course, because the year 2026 is not yet here. (Interjection from H. Põlluaasa: 'I spoke about the Russian and Finnish goods mentioned in these analyses. ') That's right. The analysis has now taken as a numerical basis the transit numbers of the last ten years. They have been used as a basis to make a forecast.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U96	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U97	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! A few hours ago, we discussed the draft state budget law in this Chamber and it turned out that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Chairman of the Monetary Affairs Committee paid much attention to the National Audit Office's assessments of this draft. The audit of the National Audit Office will also be completed in the coming days for Rail Baltic. What are you going to do about the results of this audit, are they important to you? If these are very negative for the project, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U98	I have some idea of what can be expected from this document of the National Audit Office. I think this document is very necessary. In particular, in order to obtain confirmation that this joint agreement, signed by the three Prime Ministers on 31 January, did not come about unexpectedly from somewhere in the air. I know that the National Audit Office will also add to its material a list of documents and decisions previously signed with regard to Rail Baltic. Perhaps there is this time series, how Estonia has reached the situation and position we are in today, and what commitments we have made. I think an assessment of the cooperation agreement is necessary. I'm sure I respect that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U99	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U100	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! For starters, I suggest you be quite calm and keep your nerves, even though it's so early in the morning, it's only four o'clock. When it comes to giggling in the back, perhaps you should think that maybe this giggling is the result of your answers. Therefore, inappropriate remarks could be kept to themselves. But now to my question. You've mentioned many times that the railroad takes 50 cars off the highway a day. But I wonder what the trick is, here he takes away, but he doesn't take away in Germany. According to our data, the share of rail in freight transport in Germany has decreased by 17%, DB Cargo's capacity continues to decrease and is loss-making. So, if there's a reduction in freight traffic, what formula is it supposed to increase in Rail Baltic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U101	Thank you for your question. I didn't mind you giggling. It coincides with the emergence of the rays of the rising sun, and it is humanly understandable that you were thrilled to have a new day. But probably while you were having fun in the back corner, you didn't listen carefully to my answers. I told you, one train takes 50 reca off the highway, not 50 reca a day. Let's look at the trade flows. In one of the previous responses, I also provided figures on what has happened in Via Baltica with the number of heavy duty vehicles. It's grown considerably on this route. I am not saying that all trade flows are going to move on the Rail Baltic instead of the road, and this has never been claimed in this calculation either. But there's a lot of trade coming out of the highway. In addition, it is estimated that 20% of trade flows will also come out of the sea.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U102	Jaak Madison again.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U103	Thank you, Mr President. Okay, let's get to the second question. Advisor to your ministry, Anti Moppel, has said in the Committee on Economic Affairs that Lithuania will receive money for the section between Rail Baltic Vilnius and Kaunas only in 2028. However, the cost-benefit analysis has taken account of the fact that trains already run on this section two years earlier. The European Commission and the Baltic countries have been debating, but nobody knows exactly what will happen in the next budget period. As your minister, do you confirm the words of Anti Moppel that Lithuania will receive money for the construction of the section between Vilnius and Kaunas only in 2028?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U104	What I see is the draft law on ratification of the Rail Baltic Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. I see that the Prime Minister of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania has dealt quite seriously with the problem of the railway section between Vilnius and Kaunas. They have said that the connection between Vilnius and Kaunas is part of this railway, which has not previously been formulated as such, and they have promised to make every effort together to finance this section. The next budget period starts in 2021 and its rules are not yet public, they have not yet been agreed either at the level of the Heads of Government or at the level of the Ministers for Economic Affairs, nor have they been presented by the Commission. I can only rely on the knowledge that there are people in the European Commission, especially in the Transport Directorate, who consider the Rail Baltic project to be a priority. Article 11 (3) of the Treaty states that we, the three parties, are making an effort to ensure that all capital cities are united. Tallinn is on the route, Riga is on the route and for Vilnius to also be on the route, the section between Vilnius and Kaunas must become part of the railway route and make joint efforts to achieve the eligibility of the connection between Vilnius and Kaunas for European Union support under the Connecting Europe Facility or the equivalent financial instrument, bearing in mind that the construction of this section is designed in such a way that it does not lead to the whole project being delayed or stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U105	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Economic Commission, will present the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U106	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Draft 449 debate on the ratification of the Rail Baltic/Rail Baltica Railway Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Latvia was held on 8 May in the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, Ahti King, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, Anti Moppel, Adviser to the same Ministry, Riil Baltic coordinator Kristjan Kaunissaare, and Adviser to the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Mari Lahtmets, were invited. The Commission discussed the ratification of this agreement and there were a great many questions to which both the Minister and the ministerial officials provided answers. The Commission discussed this issue and decided to send the draft to its first reading today. At the same time, the Commission also decided that the draft will not be sent to second reading until the Commission has received the opinion of the Chancellor of Justice and there is an audit by the National Audit Office and a clear order of budget and execution so that all members of the Riigikogu know exactly what they are ratifying, what is being done in Estonia for this money. The Commission took the following decisions: to propose to appoint a speaker (consensually) before you as rapporteur for the commission, to put the draft on the plenary agenda today (by 8 members and 1 was against), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 31 May (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U107	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No questions for you. I will open the political group negotiations for discussion of the general principles of the draft law. Martin Helme, Estonian Conservative People's Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U108	Dear Deputy Speaker! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Indeed, the Rail Baltic Bill is only a three-state agreement. In itself, we do not technically fight for whether the Rail Baltic project continues or does not continue, but politically that is precisely the case. If the Riigikogu does not approve of this agreement, it is clear that Rail Baltic will not be made. Of course, the first thing I want to point out about this whole debate is that it is one of the most unpleasant heel revolutions organised by the Central Party, moving from opposition to government. I suspect, somehow, that a small group of officials from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is of central importance here who simply swallowed the minister. After all, we all understand and know that these officials have a clear conflict of interest because they will benefit personally from the continuation of this project. The rest of us are gonna get really bad. We've already talked about these Kalevi sons coming back. Let's make sense! There are no companies in Estonia that meet the terms of the procurement of this project. We all understand and know that we are the stupid country shields who are given short-term European money and then put their money in it and give all this to a large Western European company that pockets this money and brings in the workforce to do this job. We all know that the quota that Kadri Simson was talking about does not have: we have a 1300-person quota, but last year about 7 000 people came to the country, all of whom mysteriously fit into that quota. Furthermore, the government is planning to introduce a visa-free regime with Ukraine. Moreover, when we speak in the conditional talk that a large German company could win this major procurement and take away both European money and our own added money, it must be borne in mind that there are, for example, Turks in Germany who are citizens of the European Union and who can be brought to work here. So the question of where this workforce comes from is still in the air. The answer is that perhaps our Kalevi sons will return from Finland or Norway, as little as most of the other answers we received. Now let's talk about a few things that should clearly set the alarm bells. Firstly, we are talking about the scale of this project. A project of this size has never been carried out throughout Estonian history; next to it, ERM pales; next to it, Kumu pales; and next to it, even the bankruptcy and discharge of Estonian Air pales. It's a huge cost, many times bigger than all previous public projects combined. Building is only one part of it, and the maintenance costs that follow are just as mysterious. We are now talking about about the EUR 25 million that the Estonian state spends on subsidising train traffic, another just as large amount that it spends on subsidising bus traffic on the road and EUR 17 to 18 million that we spend on subsidising inter-island traffic. Railway and transport experts, which are serious and credible, say that if you add up money for the leasing of trains, for electricity costs, for technical maintenance and for all other costs, it is in no way possible to talk about a sum of less than EUR 50 million per year. We are talking about half or a little more than half of the growing current costs. Against this background, to say that, oh, we're doing the Haapsalu railway, we're fixing the Tartu railway, we're doing all the other things, we're also fixing the highways, that's the fairy tale Mart Helme pointed out. Of course, one part of the fairy tale is that the recs get off the road. It's just a fairy tale, it hasn't happened anywhere else. We all know that it is more unlikely than likely to receive this money in the next budget period of the European Union. Perhaps we are now committing ourselves to the completion of this project, but all the figures that have now been advertised to us are flying out of the window and we have to multiply them by three. The question of why there are no goods on the two existing rail corridors, and where will it come from if we build a third between the two, is and will remain unanswered. There is no point in telling any fairy tales about how Finns are observers and are interested. The Finns are not going to bring their cargo to Tallinn by ships to carry out another transhipment and then to transport it more expensive by trains than they could carry the ships, where they could go directly with the ships. I mean, it's all a fairy tale. What is not a fairy tale is the huge costs that the Estonian taxpayer has to bear and that will not end, from here to the horizon. All the people now I'm going to go political, who even slightly delve into the figures, perspectives and arguments of this entire Rail Baltic project, understand that this is a crazy, destructive and economically completely catastrophic project. Anyone who votes for this must answer the question 'What is wrong with you? '. They must answer the question 'What is your responsibility in this matter? '. They must report to the people why they are directing the Estonian economy to the bankruptcy rate. It can't be said here that we didn't know or that we didn't understand. If you do not understand, you must admit to yourself that there is simply not enough reason to be in high places either in the Riigikogu or in government. We should put things together and make room for people who understand. But we all know that you actually understand. And then the question remains, who will benefit from this harmful project, that it will still be supported. I promise no one, no politician who pushes a button here, will be allowed to forget about how they voted in the elections. The Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U109	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U110	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Rail Baltic project has brought down Estonia's weak civil society very strongly by the so-called power. Nevertheless, it is a group of volunteers who have asked serious and very well-founded questions, who call themselves the 'Public Rail Baltic' community, and he has been doing so for years. They've done it out of their free will, they've done it out of their sense of citizenship, telling the authorities that they don't want this project to be another total mess to get the public's money wasted and the whole country turned upside down. They started when the first proud posters of Rail Baltic appeared, showing people how they could travel to Berlin very quickly. There were only passenger trains on the posters. When the activists said, "Hey, you guys want to start carrying the goods, how you're gonna keep up that railroad," a new poster was quickly made, and a freight train was formed on top of it. These people of Rail Baltic have been publicly called Kremlin henchmen. But a large number of public figures have also made statements. One of their leaders has been Toomas Kiho, who is known as the editor-in-chief of the Academy of Dignified Magazine and has also been an advisor to the Prime Ministers. With the author's permission, I quote his characteristic article published today in Postimees: 'This fifteenth-grade issue (He means the Treaty that we are about to ratify. However, A. T.) is one of the most important draft laws ever handled by the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia. This involves a heavy responsibility, honourable Riigikogu. Let us slow down and think about this for a moment: What will it bring? If the draft was adopted, Estonia would be changed in nature. By ignoring the entire natural and settlement structure, an unprecedented infrastructure would be built through our swamps and forests, which has not been built in Estonia for thousands of years, and huge financial obligations would be imposed on Estonia. The effects of the construction will literally turn the land upside down to build the route and viaducts, require unprecedented loads of sand, gravel and rock, the land will be cut in two by a fence from the north coast to the southern border, and the financial commitments will go far beyond the borders of the state budget. This latter is the basis for the agreement signed by the Heads of State at all to be subject to ratification by the Riigikogu and thus to the ultimate responsibility of the members of the Riigikogu. ' He's still talking about all kinds of facets, but in the end, he says... I'd like more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U111	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U112	... solution: 'But the Riigikogu also has a second chance of not ratifying the Treaty and asking the government to make changes to it. Selmet to build a new route, should be used for RB Estonia as this is how Poland will operate on the same railway. It is quite possible to reconstruct the existing railway to 160 km/h, the cost of the construction itself is more favourable, and the need for two levels of all crossings is also lost, and there is no need for a fence that divides the land. Once again, there's a lot to lose, only 15 minutes to win. ' On behalf of the Free Party, I would like to say another important factor. Transport is changing very rapidly in technological terms, and many faster, easier to build and less damaging transport solutions are currently being developed. Among other things, mention could be made of such a thing as Hyperloop. It would be very silly if we really piled up these big dirt ridges, built the railroads of the overnighted century, and could be completed if a progressive part of the world were to travel at a speed of 1000 kilometres per hour inside the pipes on the poles that didn't harm nature. The Free Party Group wishes to reject the draft law on ratification at first reading of the draft agreement on the development of the Rail Baltic Rail Community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U113	Mr Thomas Jürgenstein on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U114	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, Good minister! The minister started his presentation at 2.53 p.m. If we had sat on the rail Baltic passenger train at that moment, we wouldn't have been in Riga yet, but in Latvia. Some time ago, Eesti Päevaleht wrote that Rail Baltic is a matter of faith. Sometimes it is said that there is little to be done with rational arguments in religious matters. As a theologian, I am quite resolutely opposed to this argument. You can argue very rationally and fruitfully on religious matters, only it takes a long time, centuries. We don't have centuries. The Trinity issue was also debated for centuries, but at some point it was wise to make a decision. So is Rail Baltic. But first the starting points. There are many people who think critically and analytically among the Social Democrats. Most of them, as I have also said, have been the least affected by speeches, shared books and debates, where representatives of one party have spoken and where the view has been expressed that everything is clear on the question of Rail Baltic. It's not like that. In reality, there are a number of arguments, threats, risks and potentials which must be determined which one outweighs. It must also be acknowledged that there are groups of both advocates and opponents with whom there is no point in discussing Rail Baltic. If the real aim is political positive points, narrowly economic profit, standing up for car companies, etc., it is not a debate and debate, but rather a question of how to put forward your arguments more rashly. However, many supporters and opponents are united by the principle that they are not black and white for and against Rail Baltic, but are in favour of the most sensible and optimal rail link to Europe. Dialogue on this common issue must be maintained. I will continue on the subject of the natural environment. Rail traffic, and in particular electric rail, is undoubtedly more environmentally friendly than road traffic. However, how much harm can be caused to the environment by reaching this mode of movement is a matter of its own. Rail will certainly break the Baltic route, which, though 10%, follows the old route, animal movements, new careers are needed to complete the soil body, etc. At the same time, I have also travelled to Via Baltica, felt the density of the traffic there and seen animals run down almost every kilometre. It is not tragic for animals to build as many ecoduks, tunnels and crossings as possible on Rail Baltic. There has been talk of some EUR 50 million, about a hundred crossings for larger animals, but they must, of course, be expected much more frequently for reptiles, amphibians and smaller mammals. I'm sure the most important thing about animals being killed is human accidents. I would like to emphasise here the argument for saving life in Ernst & Young's feasibility study: within 30 years, we will save 400 lives. I received a comment on this from a friend who is critical of Rail Baltic, but his calculation also showed the preservation of 250.300 lives. For the social democrats, maintaining human lives is a very strong argument. Next thing I know, I'm talking about generosity. It is true that I have met a more skeptical attitude towards Rail Baltic in Tartu than at the place of birth in Pärnu County. At some point I realized that Rail Baltic would not go through Tartu, that the decisions made would not turn back, and it was almost impossible to convince the Latvians. It is now unclear to the South Estonian whether he must travel to Tallinn, Pärnu or Riga to get Rail Baltic. The route should be Riga, but the Latvians aren't too quick to continue the route. In short, the South Estonian must feel that he has not been forgotten. Really, this support could be expressed in the construction and continuing editing of the Tartu highway with the train line of Tallinn, so that the speed of 150 to 160 kilometres per hour can also be reached there. How much goods will the Rail Baltic be carrying, is there enough? Rekade column rides to Tallinn on the Pärnu highway, I have seen a total of 1400. The Finns' interest in carrying their goods past Rail Baltic is present. Perhaps it is easier not to take a stand against Rail Baltic, but indecisiveness is not, in the opinion of the Socialists, the solution. We support the completion of the first reading and will closely monitor the future performance of this major project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U115	On behalf of the Group of the Andres Metsoja Isamaa and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U116	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable ministers and good MPs in this Chamber! In ten minutes, a new day will dawn, which once again requires determination to develop our own country, Europe and a safe living environment, and to look into the future together, to see how our children and all generations will be able to do better in this country, in beautiful Estonia. I dare say that the life of Estonia will not go on if the farmer goes out of his farm early in the hay season, looks at the sky, and when he sees some shabby clouds, he says he shouldn't do the hay. This is not the way to develop Estonia, and so we would not have made it to where we are now. We have to make decisions with anticipation, which is what creates values. I can't help but mention that the great leaders have always dreamed. Indeed, President Lennart Meri dreamed that Helsinki could travel to Berlin in six hours. In 1994, the stake was laid to the ground and the idea of Rail Baltic germinated. Time has made its own. During this time, hard work has been done, more believers have been gained, and more doubters have been gained. I, too, have been very strongly involved in this process since 2012, and I dare say very clearly in this House that I believe in Rail Baltic. At times, it seems insulting to me to insist on the idea that all believers are somehow insane and do not understand the matter in any way. It is important to stress that we really share responsibility for future generations. I don't know where that balance is. If we fail to make this investment, is the responsibility greater than when we make it and risk cash flow? It has become clear that at one point science will become a question of faith. All studies have been based on the best knowledge and international capabilities. Some of the best experts have been involved. Finally, we come back from the dream to the faith. Something like it would be wrong if we were not actually able to make important decisions at this stage, i.e. to make reasoned and justified decisions. Indeed, perhaps we must look at ourselves and say clearly whether we are the politicians who will make decisions in view of the Postimees column tomorrow, or the statesmen who will look ahead to the future 10 to 15 years. Ratification of this Treaty will create confidence, certainty for all the Baltic States, and not only, but also for the European Union as a whole. This is precisely in the way that, when the new financial period begins in 2021, Europe will understand very clearly what we are really thinking in this distant part of the country. Is this all just an interesting bustle around different plans, or do we really believe in it and see the benefits? How else could we expect additional funding, be it within the limit of 80 to 85% of the total volume of this investment? After all, life has shown that such large infrastructure projects require international guarantees. This is confirmed even by the bridge of Öresund, Sweden, located near here. Requesting more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U117	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U118	I must say once again here that the preliminary work in the context of Rail Baltic has been very thorough. The hours spent with landowners and other interested parties have been filled with information. I would like to thank all those involved, because this job has not been easy. Indeed, today it has been repeatedly said in this Chamber that this is the biggest project of the century in Estonia. How can we hope and think that we will not make mistakes in launching this project if we have not dealt with projects of this scale before? There have certainly been mistakes, lessons to be learned and corrections to be made. I certainly want this railroad to be built in such a way that we can also benefit from it as soon as possible from it at national level. It is certainly wise to consider moving towards Tallinn, building the Ülemiste terminal and linking it to the ports. If it is possible to travel from Pärnu to Tallinn in 45 minutes in Riga or 50 minutes, it will change the world very much, and so will this small Estonia. I wish for determination! I repeat what I started: it has become a question of faith. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have unwavering believers, there are fewer believers and there are also doubters. Good luck! I certainly hope that this project will make our world smaller and more accessible to all future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U119	Erki Savisaar will speak on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, So much has been said that there is not much to add. One could talk to infinity about these studies and all the benefits that this project can bring and the dangers that it entails and which may and may not materialise. I'm going over some things that got scratched. First of all, this argument, as the Centre Party is said to have somehow changed direction. No, it's not. In the electoral programme of the Centre Party, Rail Baltic has been inside since 2005. We've been critical. We have really asked whether it would be more reasonable to go one way or another, which methods to use, etc. But we have always been convinced that Estonia needs fast and good connections with Europe. We're still convinced of that. Rail Baltic will certainly give us better connections than we have now. The second statement, as if it were too much for Estonia. No, it's not. Estonia invests 1.5 billion euros each year. Every year! And now we're talking about that if we have to invest 250 million more in the next eight years, maybe a little later, up to 13 years, we're not gonna make it. We can do it, that's not the question. We have much bigger projects. Rail Baltic is like a kitchen next to what is invested in Estonia every year. Is it easy? No, it's not. Of course, we need to think about how and what we are doing and what we are not doing, because there are really many choices. But Estonia can certainly do it, and better connections are worth it. Rail Baltic is definitely not an Estonian project; Rail Baltic is not a Latvian or Lithuanian project either; it is a Baltic project. It must be assessed together, all these volumes, all these estimates must be considered together. What does it look like to us if we bail now? I would point out that such projects in the Baltics are still coming, Rail Baltic is one of the smallest of them. We still need to maintain our credibility in an international context. The previous speakers went back to 1994 when some decisions were made. I've found an earlier event. As far as I know, the first Prime Minister of Estonia to make a decision on Rail Baltic was Tarand in 1992. This project has been carried out for a very long time. We are at the end of the line and, of course, we must take this opportunity. By the way, Latvia has already ratified this agreement by consensus. I wonder what they saw in it or why they didn't have skeptics. We also have many criticisms about why we are doing you in pieces, why we are not doing the whole highway from Tallinn to Tartu or from Tallinn to Narva, for example, why we are doing three kilometres. Now we're working on a project where we're doing a whole paragraph, and again there's a problem as to why we're doing too long a paragraph. This concern has gotten a little hysterical. Let's look back a little bit. 10 or 20 years ago, the Estonians were somehow bolder: let's do it big and think big, we'll be more successful! Now I feel like I can't do anything. Let's not rock the boat for God's sake. Maybe it's going in the wrong direction. We don't even know which way we're going. It's a big project. Whether this is the greatest of the century, I doubt. A century is long and we are at the beginning of this century, I think we will have even bigger and even bolder projects. In any case, the Centre Party supports progress on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U121	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 449, but we must vote on the proposal of the EKRE and the Estonian Free Party Group, as they have proposed to reject draft law 449 at first reading. Honourable Riigikogu, I vote against the proposal of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia and the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject draft law 449 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. The proposal had 14 votes in favour and 47 against, with no abstentions. The motion has been rejected. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 449 amendments at 5 p.m. on 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U122	The 16th item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. I call as rapporteur the Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme, who will replace the Minister for Public Administration Mikhail Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U123	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good morning, good members of the Riigikogu. There is a very short but very important draft before you, the Act amending the Foundations of the Property Reform Act of the Republic of Estonia. The following amendments are made to the Act on the Foundations of the Property Reform of the Republic of Estonia. First, Paragraph 12 (71) inserts the following third and fourth sentences: 'If operations cannot be carried out for any other reason beyond the control of the entitled subject, the Minister responsible for the field shall set the deadline for completion of the operations. The Minister may authorise the appointment of a deadline to an official of his own responsibility. ' Secondly, Paragraph 13 (8) inserts the following third and fourth sentences: 'If the decision on compensation cannot be taken for any other reason beyond the control of the entitled subject, the time limit for taking the decision shall be set by the Minister responsible for the field. The Minister may authorise the appointment of a deadline to an official of his own responsibility. ' According to the Ownership Reform Foundation Act, the municipality may have extended the time limit for operations in the land return procedure by 30 June 2016 at the latest. The decision to compensate for the assets was to be taken by the municipality by 31 December 2016 at the latest. A total of 140500 asset files containing 233400 claims are open in the process of repaying and compensating assets. 99.8% of these claims have now been met, but by the end of 2016, 220 return and compensation files, which contain up to 400 individuals' claims, were not completed. In some counties, all or almost all of the procedures for the return and compensation of property have already been completed. The asset files are closed. Most of the outstanding proceedings have been shut down due to succession or litigation and can be completed after the identification of the heirs or the entry into force of the judgment, but in some cases the current law does not provide a solution to the situation. This means that there will be a legal vacuum. Cases in which the persons entitled could not have carried out the necessary actions within the time limit for reasons beyond their control, i.e. the total number of problematic asset files is around 50. Although there are very few such cases on the scale of the whole ownership and land reform, a proper final solution must also be found to complete them. This bill offers this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U124	Minister, there are no questions for you. Siim Kiisler, Member of the Economic Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U125	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft law was discussed by the Economic Commission on 9 May and presented by Mikhail Korb, Minister of State Administration, and Uku Hänni, adviser to the Ministry of Finance. They gave an overview of the draft, just as Minister Tamm did to us here in a grateful way. Some aspects were addressed in the debate. First of all, what happens if the proceedings are pending and the Minister does not extend the deadline. The explanation is that then each case here will be examined separately, depending on the circumstances. The proceedings shall be terminated and the time limit shall not be extended if the proceedings are based on the person himself or herself. If he has not submitted the necessary documents within the time limit, the proceedings shall be closed by a negative decision. Member of the Commission Märt Sults asked whether this also concerns the processing or reopening of obsolete cases. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that this draft concerns only pending operations and that no outdated cases will be opened. It was asked that if the municipality could not handle the proceedings, what solutions were envisaged for this purpose. And the answer was that a property reform commission was set up at the Ministry of Finance, which, among other things, also provides advisory services to municipalities to close pending proceedings. Jaanus Marrandi asked whether, in some cases, the subject was not interested in processing at all. And the answer revealed that indeed there are such cases, because in some cases the national compensation amount is lower than the amount required for the succession procedure. In the case of compensation, the absence of interest is around 15% of all pending cases. As a result of the debate, it was decided (consensually) to propose that this draft be put on the agenda today. The second consensual proposal was to conclude the first reading and the third consensual proposal was to set the deadline for amendments by 24 May. a. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U126	You have a question. Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U127	Honourable waitress! Are we still talking about the property reform we started in 1991?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U128	Yeah, that's it. We are once again extending the deadlines for this property reform operation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U129	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Representatives of the political groups can take the floor during the negotiations, as is usually the case at first reading. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 434. First reading is complete. But Jüri Adams would like a word. [[???J. Adams kohapealt: 'Vabandust, et ma nupuvajutusega hilinesin!'???]] It happens a little before 5:00 a.m. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U130	Mr President! I'll be pretty brief, it's a long thing today anyway. I wanted to say basically two things about this bill. The first is that reading the explanatory memorandum to this draft was a real pleasure, given the horrific explanatory notes drawn up by officials we receive here in the length of dozens and hundreds of pages, where orientation is difficult, where it is very difficult to recognise the Estonian language and logical thinking. The explanatory memorandum to this bill, drawn up mainly by our own veteran Uku Hänni of reforms, is at the level of his earlier texts. I think it should be stated in the verbatim report in the Riigikogu that, in principle, it is possible to draw up explanatory notes which are dealt with logically and with sufficient coverage, in addition to the horrendous, bad and unaddressed explanatory notes. So the future will give us better opportunities. The second point I would like to make is that draft 434 is actually coming from the same ministry where the two previous major cluster bill 432 and 433 came from. And one of these drafts has exactly the content of one section as well as the change of ownership reform, i.e. the same law, but the change of another place. It's kind of weird that in the same house, at the same time, there may be several draft amendments to the same law that come to our proceedings at the same time. However, our respective lead committee should then at least make a reasonable connection between these drafts. There is no point in adopting several amendments to the same law on the same day or a few days apart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U131	As has been said, the proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 434. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 434 amendments on 24 May at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U132	The next item is the draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act 416. There is also a clarification on this item: the draft rapporteur has changed and the Minister for Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U133	Honorable President! Ladies and gentlemen, This is one draft which regulates administrative relations in the field of internal security and concerns police, border guards and rescue. More specifically, police and border guard matters such as taking cadets into police service as external police officers, the right of the Director-General to appoint police officers who are dactyloscopyed and who are subjected to DNA testing, temporary upgrading of the level of service, compensation for additional leave in processing, competence to change the level of service, cancellation of reimbursement of travel expenses, as well as the award of a service cross for a long period of service. With regard to our border security, it is also important to regulate the legal basis for establishing the database S.H.I.E.L.D. In the field of rescue services, matters relating to the identity of the rescue officer and the identity of the rescue service, the remuneration of extraordinary overtime and the removal of the decoration and the on-call time of rescue workers shall be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U134	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Is there a desire to open negotiations? I'm sorry! Raivo Time will make a presentation on behalf of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U135	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Everyone here is slowly starting to lose their strength, but it's okay. The Minister has already made a very thorough review of the substance of this draft, and I will not repeat it. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft for the first time on 17 April 2017. Uno Kaskpeit, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Valdo Randpere took part in the meeting. Carina Rikart and Raini Laide were present from the councillors. Hanno Pevkur was absent. The draft was submitted by Andres Anvelt, Minister of the Interior, and also by Advisor Ramon Loik, Head of the Border Guard Policy Department, Janek Mägi, Legal Adviser to the Staff Policy Department, Svetlana Master. As I said, I will not go over these points again, but one of the most important aspects of this draft law is the creation of a database of S.H.I.E.L.D., which provides a legal basis for organising the surveillance of the eastern border. The remaining changes are indeed very technical. This was also emphasised by the Minister for the Interior, saying that these are only technical issues that are not linked to a longer-term policy or coalition agreement. After the Minister made his presentation, there was also a debate in the committee. There were some questions for the Minister. The speaker asked whether the cadets could also work outside the internship, so to speak, and to earn an extra if the study period allows it. The answer was that, for example, SKA students may work, but then they do so as permanent officials. I also asked about the promotion of these same ranks. In the past, if the Minister promoted the ranks to a much wider scale, will he now only promote the ranks to those he or she appoints or appointed by the Government of the Republic? I expressed doubts as to whether such a motivating role could not be lost. The Minister thought that this proposal would be useful, but the levels of police service could not be compared to those of the armed forces. Member of the Commission, Urve Tiidus, asked whether regional fees would extend to the police officers on the islands. Both Andres Anvelt and the Svetlana Master replied that they would not expand, but if necessary, the arrangements for paying regional fees could be reviewed. In particular, the purpose of the payment of regional fees is still to set up staff in areas where staffing difficulties are encountered. The Commission's official Raini Laide pointed out that the amendment of the part of the Rescue Services Act also concerned the payment of an old-age pension, although no explanation was given in the explanatory memorandum. The representative of the Ministry, Svetlana Master, admitted that this was the original plan which has now been mistakenly included in the version submitted to the Riigikogu and must be removed from it. Commissioner Valdo Randpere pointed out that the draft explanatory memorandum said: 'the use of poisons and radioactive substances is prohibited on border water bodies' and wondered if it was permitted in other water bodies. The representative of the Ministry, Janek Mägi, explained that the draft concerns what is happening on the border watercourses and does not extend to other water bodies. Finally, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 9 May 2017 to propose that the first reading be closed (there was consensus) and to appoint Raivo Aeg (also consensus) as rapporteur. The deadline for amendments was set at 23.05.2017. Then it turned out that, unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior could not come forward with a draft at the time initially appointed. On 2 May, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the matter again and then decided to change the date on which the draft was to be discussed by the assembly. It was decided that this could be 17 May, i.e. not today, but yesterday, and that the deadline for amendments would be 31 May 2017. Both decisions were consensual. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U136	Any questions for the representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs? No, it's not. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 416. First reading is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 416 amendments at 16 a.m. on 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U137	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Act implementing the Code of Criminal Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic (transposition of the European Investigation Order Directive). Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U138	Honorable President! A respectable representative of the people! This draft amends the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to implement the European Investigation Order Directive in the Estonian legal order, according to which the submission of legal aid applications between the countries of the European Union, with the exception of Denmark and Ireland, which did not participate in the adoption of this directive, would in future only take place through the submission of a European Investigation Order. This means setting the same time limits and procedural requirements for the transmission of legal aid applications in criminal matters. This is, of course, positive because it ensures good cooperation in criminal proceedings to establish the truth. The aim of the Directive is to allow direct communication between the law enforcement authorities of the Member States in the resolution of requests for mutual assistance. So far, legal aid issues between the countries of the European Union have been resolved in such a way that the role of central authority has been fulfilled by the Ministry of Justice. Now, in the case of Estonia, the prosecutor's office and in other countries, the law enforcement authorities can begin to organise these matters directly. It should also be stressed that most of the procedure requested under the European Investigation Order is carried out in Estonia in accordance with Estonian procedural law and conditions. However, the directive also provides for specific procedural procedures which are mandatory. These are interrogation and transmission of information held by law enforcement authorities and identification of the telephone number or IP address holder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U139	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thanks to the waitress! I would like to ask the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a joint presentation by the Commission. Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U140	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, on 8 May there was a debate on this draft. All members of the Legal Affairs Committee were present except for Toomas Vitsut and Hanno Pevkur. As guests, Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry, and Aare Pere, Adviser, were invited. According to the Minister of Justice, Europe is paying great attention to the prevention of terrorism and cross-border crime. On this basis, the EIO Directive has also been developed, providing a clear framework for Member States to provide legal assistance to each other in criminal proceedings. The Committee on Legal Affairs also had some specific questions on the draft. Finally, the following procedural decisions were taken: to put the draft on the plenary agenda of 17.05.2017, to propose that the first reading be closed, to propose that the amendments be fixed by the deadline of 26.05.2017, to propose that the first reading be closed and to set the deadline of 26.05.2017 at 16.00. The agreement was consensual, Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Aeg, Olga Ivanova, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Valdo Randpere, Urve Tiidus, Hardi Volmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U141	Thank you. There are also questions for the rapporteur. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U142	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! Please give us an overview of how other countries of the European Union have transposed this directive. As is well known, the Directive is mandatory for transposition by all Member States in accordance with their national legal order. We would therefore be interested to know how other countries have moved in this process and how far they are with this initiative and with the transposition of the directive into their local laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U143	Thank you, Honourable Asker. You're commuting back and forth here, I don't know what difference you make, but the last waitress already mentioned that Denmark, Great Britain and Ireland have not yet taken over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U144	Jaak Madison, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U145	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress, I'm not going anywhere. [[Laughter.]] My question was very specific: which countries have not yet taken over it or who have problems with it. Thank you for your answer. Perhaps, however, you can specify why, for example, Britain has not yet transposed this directive. How will this affect the everyday life of the Estonian people in particular if we apply this directive to our laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U146	I really cannot appreciate how this affects your well-being, but I must admit that this was not the question that was asked at the Committee on Legal Affairs. In the future certainly... [[Laughing.]] I see that you are very happy to ask this question yourself, that is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U147	No further questions. Thank you. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 442. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 442 amendments, including 26 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U148	Today's 19th item is the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic (Implementing the Nagoya Protocol) 444. Mr. Marko Pomerantsi, Minister for the Environment of the Chair, please waitress for the initiators.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U149	Good morning. [[Laughter. The minister's got the vote off.]] I would like full attention, Mr President-in-Office, to the Chamber. It's not good with the voice, but I'm very good with the bill. This concerns the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act as regards the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol. They always ask where the mysterious places we ratify the protocols are. In this case, Nagoya, which is located in Japan, between Tokyo and Hiroshima on the Pacific Coast. You have been presented with a draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act, drawn up for inspection under the direction of the Ministry of the Environment and in cooperation with other ministries, which is the basis for implementing Regulation No 511/2014 of the European Union already in force in Estonia on compliance measures for users under the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits from their Use in the Union. The aim is to ensure that genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with genetic resources used in the European Union are legally acquired from the country of origin. Simplely, it is almost something like coffee fair trade where coffee comes from, people should also get their share. The amendments concern, in particular, R &amp; D institutions, which must now satisfy themselves and be ready to prove the legitimate acquisition of the genetic material used in their work, i.e. its origin. The Protocol has been created, in particular, for developing countries to protect genetic resources due to the high biodiversity in those countries, in order to prevent potential bio-piracy. Each country has the right to impose a restriction on access to its own genetic resources under the Nagoya Protocol. In order to have the relevant institutional framework in the Estonian state in the form of competent authorities, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research are designated as national competent authorities, and the obligation to carry out national and administrative supervision is assigned to the Environmental Inspectorate. The European Union Regulation also obliges researchers to submit declarations to competent authorities in their field where they receive funds for research involving the use of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge and/or at the final stage of the development of a product developed as a result of the use of genetic resources or associated traditional knowledge. These declarations shall be made through the DECLARE database established by the European Commission, which is a user declaration that they exercise due diligence in accordance with the European Union Regulation. The next step is ratification of the Nagoya Protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U150	Thank you, waitress. No questions for you. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to ask Mr Valeri Korb, Member of the Committee on the Environment, for a co-presentation of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U151	Ladies and gentlemen, The Environmental Committee of the Riigikogu reviewed the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act on 444 Tuesday, 9 May. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Tuuli Levand, Head Specialist of the Department of Nature Conservation of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited to our committee meeting. During this debate, the Minister took stock of the draft amendment to the law and noted that there were some objectives for implementing the Nagoya Protocol to the Nature Conservation Act. Secondly, pursuant to the Nature Conservation Act Regulation, competent authorities must be designated. Thirdly, a monitoring system will be established. Fourthly, the necessary penalty rules will be introduced. Tuuli Levandi stated that the users of genetic material would be accompanied by a reporting requirement. The funding will be provided for research projects related to this report and, if a new product is placed on the market, it will also be an obligation to complete the declaration. The chairman of the committee, Rainer Vakra, was interested in the volume of scientific accountability. The Minister replied that the precise effects are still unclear, as there is currently no understanding of how much genetic material is used at all. Valeri Korb was interested in how many officials will be involved in the management of data provided by scientists. The Minister explained that this task would be entrusted to the Environmental Inspectorate and it is still difficult to tell how much inspectors spend their time on it. No new jobs are created for this purpose. At its meeting on 9 May, the Committee on the Environment decided to appoint Valeri Korb (consensus), member of the Committee on the Environment, to propose a draft 444 on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu 17.05.2017 (consensus), to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed (including by consensus) and to propose that the draft amendments be fixed by 25.05.2017 at 4 p.m. (also by consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U152	Thank you. There are no questions. Do the members of the political groups want to open negotiations? I don't want to, in which case I won't open the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 444. The first reading is closed and I will set the deadline for the submission of 444 amendments, including 25 May at 16 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U153	Today's 20th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiators, please waitress Marko Pomerantst, Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U154	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! I congratulate you on your anniversary bill, item 20 on your agenda. The draft law amending the Environmental Monitoring Act is before you. Very simplistically, the word 'Environmental Register' is replaced by 'Environmental Monitoring Database' in this law. This is very briefly the idea of this bill. The question arose in the Committee on the Environment that, if we were still in the process of the Environmental Monitoring Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2017, why are we now changing the Environmental Monitoring Act again? The answer is that by this point the process of creating the Environmental Monitoring Act was much more advanced than the creation of an environmental monitoring database, and the creation of a database has now been delayed. It is therefore necessary to amend the law. What's really gonna change? While 90 monitoring reports were collected before and these data were entered by officials in the environmental register, they are now submitted by the monitoring team itself. A lot of working time is being saved, and we can analyze it nicely on the basis of these monitoring data and draw conclusions about our nature. So good bill. Please support me!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U155	Thank you. There are no questions. Still, there is one. I ask all members of the Riigikogu to register in good time! Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U156	Thank you, Mr President, and I am sorry that I have registered my question so late. Good Minister of the Environment! As I understand from your last sentence right now, the obligation to collect data from one side to another moves. How, then, can the quality of data collection change? Yes, we are saving on the one hand the workforce, and probably the taxpayers' money, but, at the same time, can the quality of data collection change towards better or worse? Has it been predicted, analysed, and with what result?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U157	Thanks! Our monitoring partners are decent people. They represent Estonian universities, NGOs and institutions. We've made a monitoring agreement with them. Rather, in this sense, it may be assumed that there is no longer a single link which, in turn, will re-enter the data. Just as they're going to be analyzed from our competent laboratories, so they're going to get into that database. We can see it's getting better, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U158	Jaak Madison, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U159	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of the Environment! Are you suggesting that the current system has been more harmful and unreliable over the past few years, that there may also be more error-shots than the future situation in which we are giving data collection to new people? Why hasn't this been done before? What could be the monetary gain, i.e. how much do we save with the new system to be implemented?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U160	Thanks! We still have the same monitoring partners. The savings are on the side that no more so-called double entry is made. This is a trend that has been cultivated in the Republic of Estonia for the last 20 years so that the data can reach the databases where they arise, in any field. It cannot be said that our work so far has been unreliable in no way! But it's possible to save time. Of course, e-government also means that it does not come without money. In politics, the universal tool for cash will also help here. The databases want to be built first and then kept alive. It is simply a technologically and logistically stage, which has been a great deal to do in other areas. Now we have also arrived today in environmental monitoring for financial opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U161	Thank you. No further questions for you. I would now like to ask Mr Metsoja, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U162	President-in-Office of the Council. Good ambassadors! The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu discussed this issue on 9 May 2017. One Member of the Commission, Kalle Palling, was absent from the sitting. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, was invited. Marko Pomerants explained the main purpose of the draft and it consists of creating an environmental monitoring database instead of an environmental register. At the meeting, it was decided to appoint Mr Andres Metsoja, member of the Committee on the Environment, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu 17.05.2017, to propose that the first reading of the draft be completed and, finally, to propose that the deadline for the amendments of 443 be set at 25.05.2017 at 16.00.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U163	Thank you. You don't have any questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No, I don't. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 443. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 443 amendments, including 25 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U164	Today's 21st item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to ask Marko Pomerants, Minister for the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U165	Morning! It's me again. The Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Amendment Act. The Fisheries Code needs to be amended from time to time. With this legislative amendment, we want to promote the principles of sustainable, conscientious fisheries, to facilitate fishing by ordinary fishermen and to enrich fishing opportunities for fishermen. The good news for recreational fishermen is that there is no longer any penalty for non-reporting of recreational fisheries data. It used to be that they didn't get a new fishing map, but now it's not the basis for refusing a fishing map. You can't get a card now either, i.e. you have to submit the data first and then you can. The right to exchange fishing opportunities with other countries necessary to increase fishing rights and make fishermen more flexible will also be extended. Style example, Baltic salmon. We need to change the possibilities for salmon fishing; we have a deficit in this sense, which concerns the Gulf of Finland. At the same time, on the high seas, we may have a surplus, so we can now do better with the Republic of Finland. Next week, I hope that my voice will be powerful, and I will go to the Finnish Parliament myself to explain how we are defending salmon stocks and how the Finnish side should take a positive view of this. Applications received in the order of application shall be granted for the allocation of fishing opportunities for all professional fishermen released. Where these applicants have more than the fishing opportunities allowed, the available fishing opportunities shall be allocated to applicants having historical fishing rights, with the exception of those on whose account the fishing opportunities have been released. There has been no great miracle in this draft; it is a clarification of the law. The conditions for weighing the fish shall be specified. This is a situation where there is a procedure for weighing fish. It also provides for the implementation of a point system for the master of a fishing vessel in the event of serious infringements. This is a clarification of one of the European Union's requirements for masters of fishing vessels. Again, the scoring system does not actually bring new penalties. We have, in fact, already had such a system since we joined the European Union, but at the moment the law needed to be clarified. Some provisions of the current Fisheries Act relating to the conditions for by-catch and the list of recreational fishing facilities are also planned to be amended. It is known that by-catches are permitted in certain cases. A new example of fishing gear could be the shore net used on Lake Peipsi, Lämmi- ja Pihkva. The provisions on the processing and control of the fishing documents for the use of an electric fishing gear and of the fishing documents for the purposes of the electric fishing permit shall be supplemented. From now on, the special fishing permit and the proof of the use of the electric fishing gear shall be issued electronically. In order not to get too excited, I say that electricity still cannot be captured, it still concerns only scientists. The aim of the amendment of the Environmental Charges Act is to give researchers the opportunity to cover the costs of research for fish science from the proceeds of the sale of fish caught. The draft has been drawn up at the Ministry of the Environment. To conclude, although fish would be best suited if people were not involved in them at all, today, just as in forestry, people are still trying to get their share, but this must be done in the best possible way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U166	There are no questions. Thank you very much for the waitress. I would like to ask Andres Metsoja, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U167	Dear Vice-Chairman, This draft was also dealt with by the Committee on the Environment on 9 May. Marko Pomerants, Minister of the Environment, and Kaire Märtin, Head of the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment were invited. I'm not gonna go over what the Minister said again. There were active members of the Committee on the Environment who asked questions. One of them was Rainer Vakra, chairman of the commission, who was interested in fishing in the Gulf of Pärnu and on the Latvian border, which is linked to the problem raised by the Estonian Fish Association and the proposal, namely whether recreational fishermen should receive some limit on the quantity of fish. On this point, Mr Märtin said that the working group would meet on 25 May and that following the discussion of the working group, it would be possible to make proposals on this subject. Valeri Korb, on the other hand, was particularly interested in the use of electric fishing gear. Mr Pomerants replied that this was, however, only a fishing gear used for scientific purposes, and it certainly did not concern a wider circle than only scientists. The speaker asked whether this bill would change the procedure for ex-ante assessment of the quantity of fish in a professional fisherman's boat. Kaire Märtin explained that the draft does not concern the ex ante evaluation but the quantities landed by the fish. In the end, it was decided to appoint a rapporteur for the draft, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu 17.05, to propose that the first reading of the draft be terminated and to propose that the deadline for the 452 amendments be set at 4 p.m. on 25 May 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U168	There are no questions. Thanks to the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 452. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 452 amendments, including 25 May at 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U169	The 22nd item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Act on the Official Benefits of the President of the Republic and the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Republic, initiated by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. On behalf of the initiators, I would like to ask Jüri Adams, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to hold a chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U170	Mr. Chairman of the morning session! In the last decades of the Soviet era, there were numerous educational institutions in Estonia that trained middle-level lawyers in particular, who began to act as legal consuls in the institutions, as well as very much in the areas of labour law and labour protection. One of the areas of activity of these people in which they were professional was the question of what right workers have to take leave and how much holiday pay must be. Because the Soviet general legal order had a firm conviction that every person must have the right to paid leave. When Estonia's independence was restored, these people continued their useful activities in all places. This also meant that there were constant problems in the parliamentary assembly, how to set the vacations of members of these assemblies and how to count the fees. I have looked at the materials of the Supreme Council, where this matter was solved relatively simply: a collective holiday was announced. But the situation in the Riigikogu became quite complicated since the VII membership. For many years there was a holiday institution, but the associated financial calculations were quite complex, for example when an extraordinary session fell into summer months. It is also natural from this point of view that the laws on the President of the Republic also included the concept of the President of the Republic's holiday, 35 days a year. As far as I am concerned, no President of the Republic has made himself on vacation for a single day in these years. In February this year, a letter from the Office of the President arrived at the Riigikogu, raising this holiday problem and proposing to consider whether it would not be appropriate to abolish the institution of the President of the Republic's holiday from the law at all and equalize the President with its status as we have in the Riigikogu. We are not on official leave, but this does not mean that we cannot organise one or more sufficiently long rest periods for ourselves a year. On top of this letter, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs ordered an analysis from the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu in order to find out what the legal content of this matter is and what the situation is in our neighbouring countries. The Legal and Analytical Department could not establish that there would be an institution of the Head of State's holiday in any country, just as it is currently in Estonian law. Obviously they did not control all the countries either, but at least by name this argument is correct for all our neighbouring countries. It was a surprise to me personally that this analysis quoted a speech that I had given here on the floor in 2001 when the amendment of the laws on the President was discussed. There I said, 16 years ago, that such an institution should not be in law, and I called it a lot of weird. So I am very happy to say, personally, that the talk I spoke about this remote control 16 years ago has matured over 16 years in such a way that the solution to the problem, as I once proposed, is now offered by the people to whom this provision applies. I note that I will probably not be as patient in the coming weeks, months and years as I was 16 years ago because I probably will not have time to wait for any problems until the problem matures in the minds of decision-makers and officials. What else can I say about that? Here's a remarkable thing. In 2006, all laws relating to the President were again dealt with in the Riigikogu, at the head of the law. The draft amendment to this law at that time had been initiated by the three political groups of the coalition at the time. This was the time when Andrus Ansip was the first government to consist of the Reform Party, the Centre Party and the People's Union. The main content of the draft initiated by these three political groups was the adoption of various changes to the benefits granted to the President's spouse. In the course of the proceedings, none of the Commission's rapporteurs or any member of the Riigikogu who was present in the Chamber paid attention to the fact that, among other things, the President's benefits were supplemented by a new paragraph of § 5 of the Act. This was supplemented by paragraph 4 as follows: 'In the event of termination of office, the President shall be entitled to financial compensation for unused leave. " Why would it be necessary? In principle, the presidents could have asked for compensation without it. I think the explanation for this is in Soviet labour law. Soviet labour law provided that if a person does not take his or her leave, either by his or her own will or by reason of any circumstances, there were two options: whether he or she would be given these days of leave later, or whether he or she would receive compensation for unused leave. But Soviet law had set a certain time limit, I suppose it was two years, i.e. it was not possible to wait five years with the use of days without withdrawal, but it had to be taken out sooner. This was also the case with cash benefits. What can I conclude from this? I couldn't control everything from the archives, but it seems that President Lennart Meril never thought that he could take compensation. This law was adopted in February 2006. And 2006 was the year when President Rüütel's mandate ended in autumn. I suppose President Rüütel received compensation for his five years of unused leave, and I think the next President Toomas Hendrik Ilves also received compensation at the end of his two term of office. How big were they? The amount of the last compensation that President Ilves now received when President Kaljulaid came to office was communicated to us. It was about EUR 31000. So in earlier times, as the President's salary was constantly rising, as members of the Riigikogu depended on the average income in Estonia, the compensations for the past five years were probably somewhat lower. I suppose that's the case, but since I haven't personally investigated the archives, it's kind of hard to say. A number of phases were being discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. First, there was the phase of the problem. The Commission then quite unanimously considered that a draft had to be initiated. The draft is minimalist and takes everything from the two laws on presidents that it says about leave. All decisions were taken quite unanimously in the Commission, i.e. no one called for a vote on any decision. It is usually the custom of the Riigikogu to call such a decision consensual. I'm not sure this term is the most accurate and the best, but there were no problems. So the Commission's proposal to you is to finish the first reading of the draft and set the deadline for amendments on the 25th day of May. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U171	Thank you. You have questions too. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U172	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! To what extent was this compensation for missed holidays and its usefulness in the discussions of the Riigikogu in 2006? What was the course of discussions at the time? I assume that these discussions did not take place at 5.45 in the morning, but at other, more reasonable times.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U173	Mr. Herkel! I think you should know better. I was not a member of the Riigikogu in 2006, you were. The consultant of our Committee on Constitutional Affairs printed out all the texts of presentations, speeches and questions and answers held in this large hall. I couldn't find a word in them about this holiday problem. I understand that Maret Maripuu, who was then a member of the Riigikogu, was the first waitress of the government coalition as the initiator. And the rapporteur for the Commission was Evelyn Sepp, whose texts are very interesting and contain a lot of precise information and international comparison. But again, there was no topic. All the signs show that the topic of compensation for leave went completely unnoticed by the members of the Riigikogu. The draft was adopted by a majority in February 2006, i.e. 70 votes, no votes against, so the main support was. And it turns out that the Riigikogu is probably not rare, neither at that time nor at this time was working with sufficient deepening.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U174	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 436. But before we finish our first reading, I ask if there is any desire to open negotiations. No requests, no negotiations. The first reading of the draft has been completed and I will set the deadline for the submission of 436 amendments, including 5.15 p.m. on 25 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U175	The 23rd item is the first reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, the Social Democratic Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Erki Savisaare, Member of the Riigikogu, will be a waitress for the initiators!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U176	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, 400 SE is a draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws. It harmonises the period of pre-voting in electoral laws, regardless of whether pre-voting takes place electronically or at the polling station. Advance voting will take place from day 6 to day 4 before the election day. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U177	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U178	Thank you. I cannot allow this bill to pass so laconically through the first reading. What are the consequences of this for Estonia's image in the e-field? The Prime Minister did not come to present to us until Tuesday and stressed our digital strength very strongly. It seems to me that this is a step that is actually undermining what we want to be visible and successful in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U179	Thank you. This draft does not change the Estonian e-quant.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U180	Andres Herkel, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U181	Thank you. Again, I cannot accept that you are trying to present it here so briefly. However, please provide us with all the arguments against which the Commission has voiced. What are the views of the other coalition partners on this issue? How much effort did you make, for example, to convince the IRL to be in favour of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U182	Coalition negotiations were intense. This is the draft that was suitable for all three groups. The Commission's position will soon be presented to you by the next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U183	Jaanus Karilaid, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U184	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Unfortunately, this argument cannot be accepted that it does not change our image. He should still improve the image, because all three political parties in the power union have talked about the importance of security. This will undoubtedly be given more attention than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U185	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this format is intended to raise questions. Would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U186	Yes, security is certainly important, but here we are talking about the election period, regardless of the voting method, should be equal. This has nothing to do with digital solutions, but it simply speaks of the fact that the different ways of choosing should have equal times.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U187	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, please explain to me how it is with the current situation where the voting time is not so-called equal! So, in your opinion, has it caused any harm to the current elections, or even, a ton of shit, maybe even distorted the election results?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U188	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U189	Thank you. According to the election reports, we have a specific day for elections, an election day. Pre-votes are intended primarily to prevent people from voting in the polling district on election day. If there is now a situation where this period for electronic voting is longer than for a paper ballot, then it seems somewhat strange. Are there really fewer ways of using a computer in our e-country than voting in a polling station with a paper note? Is access to a computer worse than that of a polling station? I don't think it's like that. That's why it makes sense to harmonise these two periods, to say that we have these days, you can use this method that best suits you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U190	Andres Ammas, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U191	Honourable President! Honourable waitress, please explain why you did not try the opposite option, i.e. did not extend the voting time on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U192	Thank you. This is the agreement we reached in the negotiations between the three groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U193	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I would like to ask Anneli Oti, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to act as co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U194	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the minutes of the sitting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs No 114. The sitting was held on Tuesday 9 May. The session was chaired by Ken-Marti Vaher and attended by Jüri Adams, Anneli Ott, Arto Aas, Helmut Hallemaa, Ivari Padar, Henn Põlluaas, who replaced Jaak Madison, Kalle Laane, Lauri Luik, Mart Nutt and Peeter Ernits. The fifth item on the Commission's agenda was the discussion at first reading of 400 draft laws amending the European Parliament's election law and other laws. In the run-up to the discussion on the item, the president proposed that this be discussed with the next item on the subject of the same law, namely draft 401. On this point, it was decided by consensus in the Commission that these two points would be discussed jointly. Anneli Ott presented draft 400 to the Commission and Lauri Luik presented point 6 of draft law 401 to the Commission. However, I will present to you a bill of 400 at the moment, and I will try to find a way to find this debate in this protocol. They're a little embedded here, but on the next item on the agenda, you'll hear about the second 401. The draft includes, first, a proposal to harmonise the period of e-voting in electoral laws, whether it is an electronic vote or a vote in a polling station. According to the draft, the vote will start from day 6 to day 4 before the election day. In the Commission, the focus of the debate tended to the same electoral principle set out in §60 (1) and § 156 (1) of the Constitution, and this discussion was the most relevant. Before that, I would add that, after harmonising the voting period, the draft will waive the possibility of e-voting at the polling station designated by the Regional Election Manager in 400 electoral laws, as this option has not met its real purpose and voters will go ahead with voting at the polling station designated by the Regional Election Manager, whether or not they would be able to vote in advance at the polling station of their place of residence. The relevance of this provision has lost its necessity and it has also become apparent that it is too costly. Lauri Luik next introduced the next draft. The decision of the Government of the Republic was then presented by Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, who said that the government supported the draft 400 at its meeting on 6 April. Mr Pilving of the electoral service spoke about the fact that when it comes to voting in county centres, this opportunity has indeed lost its practical meaning and the proposal is entirely appropriate. He also noted that the electoral service was prepared to hold elections in any way that the government would decide and also mentioned the statistics according to which electronic voting, regardless of the time, would generally be used either for the first day of the electronic vote or for the last. It is very difficult to say whether the length of the voting period is directly linked to the turnout. Arto Aas wanted to clarify when the draft 400 should enter into force. The President noted that the draft is currently indicating the entry into force of the general procedure, but the implementing provisions can specify the exact time at which the draft will be implemented, and that it is reasonable to do so when it is clear when the second reading of the draft 400 will take place. Mart Nutt said that both drafts are a question of choices and neither of them violates the principle of democratic elections. In principle, these are the issues that will be agreed upon. In this sense, two drafts can be seen as alternatives and should be chosen between them. Kalle Laane was concerned about whether draft 400 might restrict the possibilities for voters, as the period of electronic voting would be reduced. Helmut Hallemaa said, as the advisor to the national electoral service has already pointed out, that the first and last days of the elections will be voted in particular, so it does not matter how long the electronic voting period is. Rather, the possibility of such a choice of time in people during the elections creates unnecessary confusion. Lauri Luik pointed out that Estonia has excelled as a successful e-state and said that in this sense the draft 400 would be a big step backwards. There was also a discussion on this subject. The guardians of the bill did not agree that it would take us back somewhere, but felt that it would strengthen our position. What else can I tell you here? The basic overview of the principle of uniformity was given by Jüri Adams, who explained that the concept of uniformity means that everyone who participates in the elections has the weight of one vote equal to that of the others. He was accepted by Arto Aas. In principle, that concludes the draft debate more or less. Kalle Laane felt that, just in case, you should definitely ask the Chancellor of Justice for an opinion. Finally, our committee decided that the draft should be put on the plenary agenda by 17 May 2017. It was a consensual decision. It was proposed that the first reading be completed (by 5 votes to 3, with 1 abstention) by 10 working days (consensually) for the amendments and Anneli Ott (also consensually) for the member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U195	Thanks to the waitress! No questions for you. I will be able to get to the proposal of the lead committee very soon, but before that, we will open negotiations and it will be possible for the representatives of the political groups to speak. On behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, Jüri Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U196	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The view of the Free Party Group is that, if any changes are made in the field of electronic voting, only in order to extend this possibility, also in time. We certainly do not support the idea of narrowing down the conditions currently in force. In this context, the Free Party Group proposes to reject this draft at first reading. Now I would like to spend a few more minutes of your morning's expensive time on one of the problems relating to this bill, which we must all be aware of. This is about the fact that our constitution says that elections in Estonia must be uniform. In Estonia, there have been very many statements of opinion in the last few months that we use voting on paper on election day, i.e. on the ballot paper, but at the same time electronic voting is also possible. It should be pointed out that such a situation is contrary to our constitution. How can it be said that these two very different methods of voting are uniform with each other? For me, the most embarrassing thing is that none of our professors of political or administrative law have spoken or explained to the people what the problem is. Similarly, people in the electoral service of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu have had their mouths full of water. Rather, I have the impression that, for certain historical reasons, these people have probably never heard a professor at any school talk about where the word 'one' comes from and what it means. My explanation is that the political lyrics came up with the corresponding word in French and originally in French. In French it is in the form of égal, which means equal, and for the first time it was probably introduced in the first constitution of the French Republic, which was adopted in 1791. I didn't check it out, maybe it was already inside the Constitution of the French kingdom, but I still think it was first in the Constitution of 1791. The constitutions of all European countries, including those of Estonia, have been written in imitation of and to a large extent repeating the basic standards laid down in this French constitution of 1791. These basic standards for elections in the French Republic were such that elections must be general in French on the universe, which means that all people must be able to choose. Secondly, they must be secret, or secret, which means that it must be possible to give their voices in such a way that outsiders do not see what the content of that voice is. Third, they have to be an égal. Now the question is, what does that mean? This égal has a very clear meaning in its time, namely that one person's voice must have the exact same value as another person's. We will take other languages that we are more familiar with in Estonia. For example, the German current constitution says that elections must be gleich, which is in German 'equal'. The Finnish Constitution says that everyone must have a yhtäläinen eunioikeus. The current Russian constitution clearly states that everyone must have a ravnoje izberatelnoje pravo. More time, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U197	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U198	I don't know who introduced the word 'one-type' in Estonian in Estonia. Maybe it wasn't a happy choice, but we can't change that in retrospect right now. Our main problem is that before the Russian Revolution in 1917 all elections in Estonia were such that they did not meet this criterion of uniformity. In the cities, the vicious elections were on the basis of wealth, and we had very non-same elections, i.e. each farmer had one vote, but the servants and the nomads received one vote at ten. Since 1917 there has been no experience in Estonia that we have had elections on which we can say that they are not uniform. And in Estonia, both theorists, lawyers and electoral practitioners have forgotten that this word has had historical meaning, that it is a term, and that it cannot be interpreted as 'one-size-fits-all' in Estonian. Each country has a number of different technical means of elections, even if some of them are needed for the various elections for people with physical disabilities, and there are also technically different options. The fact that there are only two electoral methods is quite unusual, as there are mostly more than two electoral methods in the country. If we have one vote in each person's choice, it will undoubtedly comply with this principle of uniformity of the French Constitution. If, for example, the choice of the German Bundestag has two votes, then it corresponds in the same way because it is equally uniform. I'd like to invite you, esteemed ambassadors. We have so many people confused with the meaning of this concept of uniformity. If you meet a person who doesn't understand the quite simple meaning of this special term, please help him! Let us work together to make this clear, and let us not confuse our citizens more than they already are! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U199	Next, please, Jaanus Karilaid!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U200	Ladies and gentlemen, There's still time until 10:00, and I call on all the people to talk about it again. I saw that the chairman of the meeting smiled for me several times in the wrong place and actually paraded my question, even trying to block it. But I should definitely light up a few things here, or at least comment. This e-election hysteria or panic is, of course, quite hypocritical. I see that if we have any international agreements with Rail Baltic, no one is talking about breaking these agreements in any way to bring down our international reputation, then it is quite another matter. So I see this untargeted rape by opposition politicians on one issue, the international reputation is important, the other, as it is not. Today, this political hysteria can be removed, because the 51 votes that would lose the e-elections are not visible. The current coalition has taken for me, it seems to me, to point out that we want to make the elections more uniform on the one hand, but also safer on the other. When we are talking about an international reputation, it is undoubtedly important that democracy is not played. Previous power associations have failed to repair digital solutions that guarantee security. If it turns out that the software is over 12 years old, no one will check it out with a cold fish eye. In fact, there is no parliamentary control over how IT audits are carried out. It is only a word that we are highly innovative and modern, so the whole world admires us because the point has already been exhausted in three sentences. It should have real steps and real actions behind it. I see this political will in the current power union, he really wants to deal with this innovation, so that it is not just a blank slogan. I think that if we do this, we will also find the first country in the European Union to follow the example of Estonia and say that you will see that e-elections are really secure and cannot be manipulated. Many reform parties are saying that since 2005 the whole world admired us and that we are about to become exemplary, that the same system will immediately be implemented everywhere. But it hasn't happened. I'm sure that if we go ahead with this bill I know that Tanel Winter is preparing good practice in e-elections, where all this innovation and security talk goes on, then we can really go so far as to make our reputation in a few years, so that someone really looks: wow, let's do it. So far, in any case, the previous government has failed on this issue, in innovation and innovation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U201	Is there another wish for negotiation? No, it's not. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of the draft 400, but we have received a proposal from the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject this draft at first reading. We will begin preparing the vote on this proposal. I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Free Party to reject the draft law amending the Law on the Election of the European Parliament and other laws, initiated by the Group of the Centre Party, the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union, at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 5 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 48 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading of bill 400 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 400 amendments, including 31 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U202	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act and other laws initiated by the Estonian Reform Party 401. Hanno Pevkuri, Member of the Riigikogu, will present a speech chair on behalf of the initiators! As Mr Pevkur is not among us at the moment, the 24th item will be postponed to next week. Our trial today is over. Of course, the next session will begin very soon, at 10 a.m. Good morning, everyone! Closure of the sitting at 06.13 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U203	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 44 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time. The members of the government who participate in Question Time are: Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology Urve Palo and Minister of Finance Sven Sester. I will give you an opportunity to ask you a very specific question today, and then we will all have six requests to make.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U204	The first question is to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U205	Thank you, good speaker! Prime Minister! The situation that has arisen in the Republic of Estonia is, frankly, unprecedented. We have a law passed by Parliament with 90 votes in favour last autumn that pushed us from the security situation where we are now in this region. Legislator, the will of the Estonian Parliament was repeatedly expressed during the discussion of this law. And it is the will that the persons on the Magnitski list will be banned from entering Estonia. On Monday, the Minister of the Interior made it clear that the government, led by the Central Party and having a cooperation agreement with the Putin Party, has not complied with this law. I might ask if it's part of this deal, but I'm not gonna do it, I'm not gonna ask. My question is why your government does not comply with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U206	Thank you, good questioner! It is true that the Riigikogu made its decision on 8 December last year and 90 votes in favour. It is also true that two ministries, both the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are currently analysing two areas. There is certainly no question of whether to implement it at all. The question is how to implement and do it in a way that is also in line with the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U207	I think we should push the button. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, a specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U208	Thank you. It really seems to me that perhaps all members of the government do not actually understand the signal that is being sent internationally by the fact that so far there has been no law and that the intention of the legislator not to let those who are on Magnitski's list in the Republic of Estonia is simply ignored. If you are now saying that the question is how to solve it, and that you are still dealing with it and trying to find an answer to this question, I will take this opportunity to ask you this: will you confirm that the government will follow the will of the legislator who is on the Magnitski list not to allow the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U209	Thank you. The government always follows the will of the legislator. If you don't mind, I'll give you another explanation. If you're suggesting that we have no will, that's a very wrong indication. It's a will. And like I said, this analysis between the two ministries is ongoing. As a better politician than me, you have certainly included in your questions the sentences relating to the description of the domestic political situation. I guess they're connected to the local elections in your case. We know that, for example, the US Congress already made that decision in 2012, we can say four or five years ago. In April 2014, the European Parliament issued its resolution. I have had no opportunity at all, and I do not want to say this either, but I am saying that this issue could have been resolved long ago by the government, which has certainly had very good Prime Ministers, from 2012 until the end of 2016. Somehow it hasn't been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U210	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U211	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! Glad to hear it's not a question of 'is it? ', but the question is 'when? '. Given the current government's actions, however, these questions will remain at 'when? " often vague and stretch, without an exact deadline. Let it be, for example, a change in the procedure for electing the President, for which you had to come up with a plan by the end of January this year, but we are still waiting. Therefore, please hand out some kind of carriage here, when we will then have to wait for the steps of the government so that those who are on the list will be banned from entering the Republic of Estonia. When is this noise: it will be by the end of this year, by the end of next year or for the next election?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U212	Thank you. We also discussed this issue some time ago in the Security Committee of the Government of the Republic and, as I said to your fellow Member, the analysis is ongoing in this area. You got it all right that the question isn't at all? '. The Government, of course, is based on the will of the Riigikogu and 90 people have given their favourable position here. The question really is how to do this in a way that is in line with the law. The first part of your question, I think, also needs to be answered. You said that in the case of the current government coalition, there are quite a lot of things you can ask 'when? '. It is true that a lot of key issues, which have been up in Estonian society for more than ten years, some maybe over 15 years, have been resolved in the last four to five months. I only bring out a few. For example, the same health care reform so that the treatment queues for the people of Estonia really shorten, that the government would propose to the honourable Riigikogu that it be incorporated into the laws and that the government would find additional funding in the state's budget strategy. At this point, it can be said that the government has made all these decisions. More than EUR 200 million has been found for health care and health care funds. Let's take another major reform, a pension reform. If you ask me again when? ', then I say that here, too, the input has been given and a fundamental decision has been made that the draft pension law must come up in March next year. So I think that in the last five months, the government has made very large and fundamental decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U213	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U214	A question for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, With regard to this issue of taxation and budget, I really want to be clarified in your worldview. You have been Minister of Finance in two successive governments that have been different, previously also Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You've been moving in the direction that you've started to come up with new taxes. And you have moved towards allowing a deficit on the principle of budgetary balance, while both Eesti Pank and the Fiscal Council say that this is a very wrong time. Perhaps my question is what developments your worldview has undergone in this process. And why has it gone so much that your views have changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U216	Thank you, good questioner. I am pleased to hear that a member of the Free Party wishes to know the world view. I understand a lot of people are still looking for their worldview. This certainly has nothing to do with this. I'd like to bring you two important keywords if you'll listen to me. I think that fiscal policy must be conservative and that economic policy should be liberal. I think these are such important keywords. If you ask what tax structure and 'positioning' could be in the future, as I have said before, we should pay more attention to labour taxes, mainly by lowering them. I think this is one of the most competitive advantages if we can bring down labour taxes. In order to bring down labour taxes, we have a number of options: the reduction in income tax that has been done over time, the fall in social tax that we have abandoned, the rise in the tax-free minimum, which is twice as ambitious as the abolition of social tax. I would point out that it is twice as ambitious. Perhaps attention needs to be paid to reducing labour taxes, tax-neutrally transferring them to consumption, vices, the environment. If you look at the current change in tax policy, you will see that the words correspond to action. We made a major change at the end of last year. I think it's the biggest change of the century. The pace of this change would normally have been thirty years. For people on low and medium pay, 500 euros will be exempt from income tax next year. Thirty years would have taken us if we'd kept up the old pace. And as you can see, we are now transferring it to consumption, as we promised.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U217	Andres Herkel, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I didn't get a very clear answer. This confusion still continues so that, if the objective is obviously to fill budget gaps, you are talking here about the taxation of vices. Clearly, questions are motivated by what is on the agenda of the Riigikogu today. But a new chairman has been elected to the IRL, and as far as I can tell, you also had quite a discussion on Monday about what happens to the drafts that do not correspond to IRL's world view. That's what your members admit they're not answering. However, what adjustments do you intend to make, for example, on the issue of the sugar levy and the joint declarations of spouses? The Auditor General has also very strongly criticised the basic law of the budget, which provides an opportunity for deficit and which does not, in fact, guarantee a sufficiently transparent procedure in the Riigikogu. What are you gonna do about this? I hope there's a change in the IRL.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U219	Thank you. I'll start with your introduction. It turns out that no matter what I say, you're finally saying that the questions remain unanswered and unclear. I'm trying to speak with a loud voice, clearly, without any silence, so that you can understand every answer I have. And the truth is, you know I always do that. You said we had some exciting discussions on Monday. I know that once, at some point in time, you were in our discussions. By now, you've gone to another party and you're trying to find a view of the world there. I hope you find it in time. If we now come back to the issues we have today, I would say so. You see, in the run-up to the elections, all political parties are working to show how different they are from one party or another. That's the way it is before the election. Following the elections and during the formation of the coalition, efforts will be made to find this common element, which will bring together and provide the opportunity to lead the country. Of course, there are always compromises in every coalition. I remember when we had a coalition with the Reform Party and the topic was the land tax exemption for homeowners, one of the great wishes of the IRL, which has been put into effect by now. The Reform Party didn't want this. They said, "We don't like it. We would like homeowners to be taxed. " We said no, we don't want them to be taxed. They were forced to come along with this compromise. Maybe what I'm trying to say? Coalition agreements are always the art of compromises. Are compromises crossing our red lines or not? I can tell you today that this coalition agreement that was made six months ago is a very good coalition agreement. I see very clear signals there, which are good signals for the right-wing party, from the sale of state companies on the stock market. What's the last thing we did? We bought back Estonian Railway. Some parties supported it, my party did not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U220	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U221	Honourable President! Respectable Minister of Finance! A loud voice doesn't always help. I've learned from psychology that a loud voice sometimes hides the insecurities inside the speaker. But I'm going to ask you about conservativeness. Did you represent a conservative policy when you spoke with Urmas Reinsalu and Mart Laar five or six years ago that the budget balance could even be included in the Constitution of the Estonian State, or do you represent a conservative view of the world now that you are letting a deficit in the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U222	Thank you. I think that's a very good question. I certainly have the opportunity today, in addition to this two minutes, which is a very short time, to dwell on this subject even longer when we are dealing with this specific draft. So I am certainly going to deal with this in the long term today. But in short, let's start with you saying that a loud voice can show internal uncertainty. I guess it's psychology. I think that with regard to the issues that are currently on the government's table, all members of the government know exactly what the objective is and how to achieve this goal. And I say again: it is not a solo of one minister or another; it is a comprehensive government plan for both fiscal policy and fiscal policy proposals. We now come to your question of budgetary policy proposals. Listen, I have also told you before from this very talking board that I think that today the country needs to look at the whole picture of whether the economy needs to be stimulated or the economy needs to be cooled. If the economy needs to be cooled down, we have reason to withdraw public investment rather than to heat the economy. The best example is from the time of the boom in 2008, when, apart from private companies, the State constantly added more investment and did not really realise that it was a boom. For me, your question is whether or not this is a boom. If it is not a boom, it follows that we should give an opportunity to further economic growth, which in turn means that we will do so either at the expense of future periods or at the expense of past surpluses. It's like a train we want to get moving. If we're gonna get a big train going fast, we're gonna have to give it a really good acceleration. And I'm saying I'm ready for this today, and I hope you're ready to do the same to give this acceleration at the expense of the surpluses of earlier periods. If you are not satisfied with a 1-2% growth, I believe that we will do it together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U223	Finishing... A procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U224	Thank you, good Chairman. I have been forced to ask this procedural question once before, in fact, I have a request. It seems to me that the sound system does not work in the Riigikogu when listening to the answers of the ministers, because the answers they give are completely off the questions that are asked. Perhaps the point is that ministers simply do not hear what the members of the Riigikogu ask. I ask you to check the sound system of the Riigikogu to see if our talk reaches the ministers as questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U225	Honourable MP Keit Pentus-Rosimannus! I understood that there was a certain degree of assessment on this issue. As Chairman of the Riigikogu, I do not have the opportunity to assess both questions and answers, although sometimes I feel terribly sorry for it. So I am going to stop dealing with this issue right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U226	Let's go to the next question, which is for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, and that is what Uno Kaskpeit is asking. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U227	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Prime Minister! On the evening of June 28, 2016, a motor boat of Haapsalu border guards was found in the throat of Voos, between Vormsi and Noarootsi, in Läänemaa. Its engine worked, the boat circulated in circles in one place, and a drowned border guard was found near it, and from a distance the body of another border guard was found. On 28 June 2016, were all border surveillance radars working that could ensure surveillance of West Estonia and its scene? If you were working, why didn't they spot any suspicious movements on the boat? If it didn't work, why didn't those radars work?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U228	Thank you, Honourable Asker. First of all, I would like to express my deep condolences to their loved ones and their families on the tragic death of two very good police and border guards officers. You read the chronology very correctly. Indeed, such a tragic incident occurred on the evening of June 28, last year, after seven o'clock. If you're asking me what time some kind of radar was running and at what time it didn't work, I can't tell you that in this briefing. I have so much to tell you that today the accident investigation has ended and the following circumstances have been identified: First of all, it was an accident. The accident was caused by the fact that the boat driver let go of the steering wheel of a high speed boat, based on data collected during the investigation, the boat then made a sharp turn, resulting in both men falling into the water. The reason for releasing the steering wheel could not be established in the investigation. It was also examined whether both border guards wore life jackets during the accident and whether the vests were working properly. You could say they were both wearing life jackets. So this was, in short, the result of this investigation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U229	Uno Kaskpeit, please specify the question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U230	Thank you. I know the police investigation revealed that the boat initially moved at a steady speed, then made a sharp reverse turn and drove the way back, speeding up the fire, reaching maximum speed and staying in one place later. It's kind of weird. If they had fallen off there during the reverse, it would have been somewhere else. Now here's the question: was there a camera in the bow of a motorboat that recorded the view of the boat facing? If not, why are lifeboats not equipped with such necessary equipment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U231	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that the Police and Border Guard have provided all of their equipment and machines with the best equipment available to us at our capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U232	Jaak Madison, a more specific question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U233	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! I'm going to expand the subject a little bit further. This case is undoubtedly tragic and sincere sympathy for the two men's loved ones and families, who lost two people, who were also very necessary for the Estonian state. However, this question actually ties very closely with Estonia's ability to control our coastal defences, to be aware of what is happening in our waters and also under the water. As Head of Government, please give us an overview of what our capabilities are now according to the concept of coastal defence. How good do we have control over what's going on in our waters below the waterline? And if things are not in the best order there and after independence, in the last 26 years, there has been no control, what is the plan of action under the current government to improve this control and increase its capacity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U234	Thank you. There have been two directions in this period of government. One has been to give the Rescue Board more investment, for example, as well as to increase the capacity of the Police and Border Guard Board to create regional police constables, to increase rapid response capabilities. Now, you asked about our ability to control the surface and underwater situation. The Estonian state certainly has a pretty good capacity to control and monitor the above water situation, and we also have quite good cooperation with our partners and allies to monitor everything that is happening underwater.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U235	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U236	The next question is for Finance Minister Sven Sester. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U237	Dear Minister, Your party chairman, Helir-Valdor Seeder, has repeatedly said publicly in recent days that cutting the collective declaration of the spouse's income is not a policy of the right-wing party and that the right to collective declaration of the spouses must be restored. However, as Minister responsible for the field, you recently sent a letter to the Committee on Monetary Affairs on behalf of the Government saying that you do not support the restoration of the joint declarations, as they would negatively affect the budget and give one of the spouses an unreasonable incentive not to move to the labour market. And, to sum up, you are saying that the joint income tax return of spouses is not a common practice in the European Union. I ask whether you are prepared to recognise your striking fiscal error on this issue and to consider restoring the husband's joint declaration in full.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U238	Thank you, good questioner. First of all, I think that we should start with what is the greatest objective of collective declaration or what are its main advantages. And here I want to say to you, as well as to all listeners outside the Chamber, that there is, in fact, a possibility of collective declaration. This is the main advantage, by the way, that spouses can, if they wish, jointly declare the most common deductions: training costs, deduction of additional tax-free income on children, interest on housing loans. For example, if one has revenue and the other has cost, it is possible to put them in a joint declaration. Yes, there were also discussions at some point on whether this possibility should be left open. But it is now possible to submit a joint declaration. Now the second question is whether, in addition to deductions, interest rates, training costs, additional tax-free income for children could also be a tax exemption, let us say, the benefits of common declaration beyond this possible "minimum level" which is currently EUR 180. You know, I'm telling you that this change that the new coalition made six months ago, by raising the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 per person, is going to be more than the previous level of tax declared by two people together. Last year it was 170 euros, two times 340, it was 180 euros, two times 360. One person will receive more than two people in the future. I think this is definitely very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U239	Thank you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U240	Minister, it is often your custom to give half and distorted information about your tax changes. For example, if one member of the family does not work and the other one is working in two jobs, this family could lose the right to a tax-free minimum in the future, including what they would now be entitled to. Is that fair? And secondly, you were talking about adding training costs and interest on housing loans, but they can only be added within the limit. The limit cannot be transferred to another member of the family according to your changes. I ask whether this is fair to families that are considerably losing with this amendment to the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U241	Thank you, good questioner! I think we should look at the whole picture, as I have said before. And I'm taking this opportunity to tell you what this whole picture is. I think we should actually look at the various tax policy decisions that relate to the family. You're talking about families. Since you started with your bill, the Reform Party Bill, which is currently up here in the Riigikogu, I can tell you that I have read your bill and there is not a single word about whether or not families could have any additional bonuses depending on the number of children. The family values of your bill, I think, are not directly included. In a comprehensive picture, it is important for us to see what additional bonuses the family will receive in the future. I think it's quite appropriate to bring up a new decision here. In particular, the decision that people who have children, especially if they still have several children, three children and more, will receive much higher support from the state. We have agreed today, and it is also legitimate that there will be 300 euros for the child. And we must certainly look at the overall picture of how much the family will actually receive in the near future, during this period, from the support mechanisms of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U242	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U243	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I can continue to speak with my honourable colleague: you did not actually answer his question. Rather, the content of the question was that if one Estonian family has agreed that one family member will work in two places and the other will play a very important role at home, you will very brutally intervene with your changes in income tax and other changes in this family life. I would like to ask you why you do not value working on a number of jobs, but you very much value getting a higher salary for the same job through a tax-free minimum if the employer is not prepared to pay it for some reason. I think it is prospectively very dangerous when we give this message, without contesting the need for social welfare, we are talking about working and the labour market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U244	Thank you. I think that the issues you are raising are worth debating. If you are saying that we do not value people's additional employment, on the contrary, I would like to say that we are doing everything we can to ensure that people are on the labour market and come to the labour market. I think that the country's greatest goal should actually be that people participate in employment, have jobs and also pay for jobs. I do not agree with you that we do not value it. Rather, I would say that our aim is to channel more and more people into the labour market. We are trying to do everything we can to keep them on the labour market. If the mother is at home with the child, as you mentioned, additional support mechanisms will give her the opportunity to be at home calmly and also receive parental benefits, for example. This question, which was before the Aivar Sõerdil, I apologise if I may have left it unanswered in any way, whether there is any willingness to discuss one or the other proposal, and what was actually the first question of Aivar Sõerdi, I say, yes, there is. Of course! I think that any law must not be "cut into stone." And if you notice, the coalition has made different changes over time. Whether there are changes to one draft or to another or to an existing law is a separate issue. But I'm always ready to talk, reason, debate. So if there are any better solutions, fairer solutions, more acceptable solutions for the taxpayer, then I am always ready to sit at the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U245	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U246	The next question is the Minister for Enterprise and Information Technology, Urve Palo. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U247	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! There have been many problems with the launch of the Information System of the Social Insurance Board. These have created difficulties for people, with a considerable financial cost for the state. In response to the Monday's inquiries, we also had this question on the table with Mr Prime Minister. Mr Prime Minister pointed out the possibility that there is probably uncertainty in our ministry when it comes to drawing up the initial task, too, that there is not exactly what is wanted. Do you have, and to what extent do you have, an overview of the ICT capabilities and capabilities of our ministries to prepare such important starting tasks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U248	Thank you, good questioner! As always, an important subject. Overall, when we talk about IT solutions and services, their development in Estonia, this is a subject that needs constant attention. Above all, because e-services and their development are sustainable throughout the country, but there are no major differences either. And this concerns both ministries and other public authorities. A very big thing, the first step that has been taken in recent years is that if ministries or other public authorities want to implement IT developments, they must first get coordination or yes from the Department of Information Technology of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. They have to submit their project why they do it, why they need this development. The primary capacity to understand why some kind of program or development is being sought has increased considerably thanks to this preview and competition. Of course, you can do even better, but you can already see a great development here. If the Ministry of Economic Affairs gives its yes-word that it really is an important service that is intended to be developed, and for that it makes sense to provide resources, whether directly from the state budget or indirectly from European funds, the procurement process is already carried out in the Ministry or other public authorities. Yes, the concern is that the ability of ministries and public authorities to compile this procurement is very different. Therefore, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in cooperation with the National Information System Agency, regularly organises training courses for ministries and other public authorities, from Chancellors to IT managers and specialists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U249	Thank you. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U250	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! On the one hand, we have ICT as an area of growth, and on the other, it is also an important horizontal area. One of the obstacles to faster development in this whole area is that we do not have enough workforce. At the same time, studies have shown that the export capacity of our ICT companies is quite modest and small. Is and what has the Ministry been able to do precisely to increase its export capacity for companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U251	Thank you. I would like to say briefly to the previous story that, in addition to the training we are really doing, everything starts with people, and if they are able to prepare the procurement, it is also expected that the outcome of the procurement will be more accurate and better, we have also helped to develop framework agreements, contracts, in cooperation with the private sector. But we actually want to do them again after the Presidency, to introduce more flexibility, so that not only a piece of the programme but a full service is obtained. So this job of making it all better lies ahead of us. But now, when it comes to the need for labour in the ICT sector, it is really huge and we have a number of things planned in the Ministry to contribute to this. You have rightly said that ICT is no longer an issue of its own, but it is horizontal across all sectors. For this reason, for example, the Ministry of Economic Affairs organised three training procurements to help retrain its employees, I mean the people of Estonia who have already received some kind of education, but now life has moved on, who want to acquire a quite new, ICT-related programmer-level learning. We have just finished the first 38 people who have previously completed higher education in some other field and have now studied as programmers. They've all already gotten a job. We have a contract for 2,000 people. We want to help increase ICT skills in industry so that they can do better with machines and equipment and that all this training burden does not fall on employers. Moreover, there is still a plan to help bring in programmers from outside, because businesses say that 7 000 people are missing in the ICT sector, specifically programmers, there is interest in third countries and it is currently out of quota. So this is a subject for which there is funding and what we are dealing with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U252	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I actually asked the honourable Prime Minister on Monday when the skyis2 was being discussed here. But I will now also ask you whether and when it is planned to conduct a general audit of the costs of IT solutions for public authorities, as well as the cost of over-expenditure, such as the sad example of SkyS2 we have. In addition, I mention here the IT solutions of the Tax and Customs Board, which have been made for either unsuccessful or short-term tax solutions. For example, the IT solution for low-wage income tax exemption cost a great deal and was only implemented for one year. I guess that wasn't the best solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U254	Thank you very much. This last example, of course, does not go to the tax administration's cabbage garden. It was a political decision that officials could not be blamed for. However, I do repeat that the Ministry of Economic Affairs, in cooperation with the National Information System Authority, has provided training and we continue to work every day to ensure that people who work in ministries and other public authorities and who are responsible for the way information systems are organised in the institution are well educated. We're in training, there's nothing we can do without it, and things have really gotten better. I think that, in the same example of the SKAIS that you brought, there was not yet such a tight sieve in the Ministry of Economic Affairs to get approval of any kind of enterprise or e-solutions at all. Now that sieve is pretty tight. The ministries need to think very carefully first whether and how: what they want to put money in and what they want to acquire is then a program or development, gives what benefits are in terms of people's and service development. And only if they can prove it at the Ministry of Economic Affairs will they get any funding for it. This sieve is already working, and it's getting better. Now that the procurement goes on, this competence really needs to be on the ground in the ministry. Here too, the situation has improved thanks to training. But we would like the framework agreements that we are proposing to be even better and more flexible just to help the ministries. But speaking of the SKIAIS, I understand in itself that the Ministry of Social Affairs also has a follow-up plan on how to proceed with it, designed and developed in this direction. So let's hope mistakes are learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U255	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U256	Now Arno Bridge asks and answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U257	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Six months ago, a mine hunter discovered a large amount of salasi cigarettes and secret alcohol. When dealing with this issue in this Chamber, the Minister of Defence said that criminal proceedings have been initiated under the supervision of the Tax and Customs Board on the matter of Sakala, a mine control vessel. Disciplinary proceedings have also been initiated by the military police in the Defence Forces. Now, briefly, here is the follow-up to the question of how far these investigations are going. And can you judge when these materials will come to court or whether they will?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U258	Okay, thank you very much for this question. You are indeed right that, at the beginning of this year, on 23 January, my good and good colleague Margus Tsahkna here gave you these answers. There's not much to add at the moment. I've been going through your discussion about what was going on at the time. There is so much to add that the Estonian Defence Forces have also conducted their own internal disciplinary investigation, which has resulted in the ship's commander being punished with a financial penalty. I don't think that was mentioned in this debate. You asked me what criminal proceedings were and what happened to it. Indeed, criminal proceedings have been initiated under the direction of the Tax and Customs Board and investigations are ongoing. In addition, the Estonian Defence Forces have made a clear decision on the case that they will not tolerate such behaviour. This case certainly damages the reputation of the Estonian Defence Forces and requires one condemnation. And I congratulate the Defence Forces on a very clear message where it has been unequivocally condemned. As a result of the disciplinary procedure and the investigation of the case, the commander of Sakala, under mine control, immediately resigned. He has been transferred to a lower post than his rank or career would require. The Commander of the Navy also took responsibility for the damage to the Navy's reputation, who submitted a declaration of resignation from his post. So I think the Defence Forces, the Navy, have clearly learned from this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U259	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U260	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! This question should be put to the Minister of Finance because the Sakala case, which is certainly unfortunate in nature, can create a certain parallel with the various tax increases that can actually produce an increase in smuggling. What is currently happening between Latvia and Estonia shows a very clear trend in growth. I want to ask you why you're producing these tax increases that people should be involved in smuggling instead of buying goods from their republic at a normal price.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U261	Thank you. I understand that, figuratively speaking, the question now goes from the sea towards Valga-Valka and Ikla. The answer is very clear: the first, most important and most important objective of the current government coalition's alcohol policy is to improve public health by reducing the correction made by the editor at the request of the speaker. ] access to alcohol in different age groups. Certainly, alcohol policy has budgetary implications, but it is not a secondary issue to the current government, it is even a multi-stage issue. The primary question has been how to take care of the health of Estonian people. It is true that excise duty on alcohol always brings in receipts from the state budget and, of course, border trade must be included in it in terms of the coefficient of elasticity. It's included.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U262	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U263	Thank you. Since it has already been said here about what is happening on land, I am asking more generally this question: is there any additional measures to be taken to combat smuggling, apart from the heavy error that this mine hunter had?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U264	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that our authorities, led by the Tax and Customs Board, are doing a very effective and good job of fighting smuggling on land. I think, knowing their actions, that this has not only been about resolving situations and reacting to them. On the contrary, the Tax and Customs Board and their good officials have also proactively, proactively, taken steps that have certainly reduced our tax pit and which have certainly reduced any illegal activity. So I think it is entirely justified to draw your attention to this issue, too, and this must be kept in focus. Of course, this must be kept in focus, but these activities are also dealt with every day in the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U265	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U266	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Now our work goes on so that if the members of the Riigikogu have any questions, please signal it. There is still one minute to ask the question, but first it should be said to whom of the three ministers is the question. And ministers have a chance to respond within two minutes. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U267	Thank you, Mr President. Good ministers! My question goes to Finance Minister Sven Sester. It was pretty humorous to listen here before you told the ambassadors of the Free Party to understand that they could find their own worldview if your own party had sank through the floor with its support of a rather thick election threshold. That's funny to hear. This is probably due to the introduction of six new taxes and your little confusion in your activities and the abuse of voters' trust. But actually, I would like to ask you about another subject that concerns one of your areas, namely public procurement. Waste transport is a regulated area and must be subject to public procurement. According to all waste companies and waste management companies, large-scale corruption is taking place in the city of Tallinn in this area. Does this bother you as the minister who is actually responsible for this area in the context of public procurement?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U268	Thank you. I will not respond to the long foam you said before the beginning of your question. I'm sorry to say this, but I'm also entitled to my opinion. I thought you guys made an introduction from one minute to 40 seconds, and the last 20 seconds went to your question. Of course, it would be easy for me to tell you, a good member of the Riigikogu, that you are wrong in your questioning and that you will end the answer, but you know that I will never answer that way. And if you ask me what you're wrong about, I'm not responsible for public procurement, I'm not the minister responsible. You yourself have been chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs and also in the Committee on Economic Affairs, where the law on public procurement has been dealt with more than once. The Minister of Public Administration is actually responsible for the Public Procurement and Public Procurement Act. I'm definitely not the one who's supposed to make some kind of special remark here. But since you also asked the substantive question, I will of course answer, even if I am not responsible for one area or another. I think any corruption is deplorable at any level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U269	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U270	I'm really sorry, but these ministers are sitting in a house and legally the Minister of Public Administration also works in the Ministry of Finance. I thought you were just the most important minister in this house, and that's why I thought it was a small compliment to you, too, to make you feel comfortable. But the point of asking like this, when you had to answer a really small part of a specific question, was to give you a little bit of the impression we feel on this side of the Chamber when you give us your long answers. Often they have nothing to do with the question. Have you discussed in the coalition what to do with this so-called continuous confusion in Tallinn? After all, this is indeed the largest municipality that affects consumers most in the context of waste transport. How can we resolve this situation? I don't have an answer, I can't tell you in advance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U271	Thank you. I guess these things are starting to blow over here, and it's actually natural, and there's not much time left in the middle of October, after all, there's a municipal election. And there is nothing to be done, it is inevitable that local government elections will pass quietly, but surely also into this large hall, so-called Riigikogu level. It is perfectly understandable that most of the members of this House are running for office and want to show themselves to their voters and pass on some messages. It's not worth deploring by nature. I think, as I said before, every corruption case is deplorable at any level, in any volume. Zero tolerance, there's nothing to tell. I think that, in specific cases, those who know should go to specific bodies to provide information on this. Those who are detectives should look into it. And it's our job to make a moral assessment when such a thing has happened. And, of course, if we share one or the other value in one area or another, it does not mean that if we do not see a reason to criticise, we should not say it. I take this opportunity to say that, of course, I and the good Prime Minister may have a different opinion about Tallinn Television, but this does not interfere with the last of the great goals proposed at national level, such as the whole vision of serving and lowering labour taxes. It doesn't bother us at all with the last one in our lives. But at the same time, we may have different opinions on one subject or another. So I say again: I think that the issues that arise in the context of the local elections will naturally also come more and more into this Chamber, but let us try to keep these issues where, in fact, this electoral platform is. Let us not talk about them, not the Riigikogu, but about them in the context of local governments!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U272	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U273	Thank you, Mr President. I have a question for Minister Palo. When you were a minister last time, you became the speaker of the zero bureaucracy project. Four ministers launched a zero bureaucracy project and you became a speaker at the time. In the meantime, Minister Oviir was, and now you're back. Please explain how far this project is! Are we going to have a change in the near future? I am thinking, for example, of simplifying entrepreneurship in terms of administration.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U274	Thank you very much. The zero bureaucracy team is working happily on. From time to time, they meet at ministerial level. There's the Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, there's the Minister of Economic Affairs, there's the Minister of Justice, there's the Minister of Finance, too, if I'm not mistaken. But usually they work a little lower, at the level of officials. I cannot now read to you what has been done and what is planned, because I am not prepared for this issue. But what I want to say is that this is also part of the current coalition agreement, so that the reduction in bureaucracy can go on. And the work is going on all the time, it's not the opposite of falling off a table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U275	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U276	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Prime Minister, to whom I would like to ask a question! That's the kind of thing I want to ask. For the rest of the time, I can commend you. This concerns the decision on Tori's horse farm made by the government. But I would also like to ask if the Tori complex will be preserved as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U277	Thank you for this question. Indeed, it has become the custom of this government to make important decisions, not to roll them off the table. We have also personally visited Tori's horse farm with three ministers. Both the Minister of Finance, Mr Sven Sester, and the Minister of Rural Affairs, Mr Tarmo Tamm, have been familiar with this situation. After all, it has been our desire for Tori's horse farm to get back on track, to have investments that are not one-off because we cannot see a perspective on this. We have wished that, if these investments are made, Tori's horse farm must, in any case, be sustainable. I think your questioning is very important. If Tori's horse farm goes on with its activities along with the investments that the Government of the Republic has already decided, then it must also be able to manage itself. That's what it's been about. The Ministry of Rural Affairs says that this agreement that has been reached is good for them. In addition, there has been serious cooperation with the local government, or the municipality of Tori, in the sense that the so-called gate or the first and largest information point of the Soomaa Visitor Centre could also come to the same centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U278	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U279	Mr President, my question is for the Prime Minister. The Estonian Free Party has twice submitted a draft to the Riigikogu regarding the problems of unemployment insurance for members of the company's management board. Chancellor of Justice Madise went to the Supreme Court with this issue, because the government did not consider it important enough to draw attention to either the Free Party or the Chancellor of Justice. A decision now came to confirm that the current situation is indeed in conflict with the Constitution. And my question is very specific: is the government planning to come here quickly with its own proposal, or is it going to support the draft law proposed by the Free Party, which is in the drawer and is waiting to be removed from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U280	Thank you. You are indeed right that the Supreme Court has made its decision. How do we proceed? Of course, I am absolutely convinced that the Supreme Court's decision is for enforcement. I think that we have been able to work very well with the Free Party on many other issues, whether it be SKAIS2 or Estonian maritime issues. I think the Free Party sees a lot of common ground here with the government. We will certainly also examine this issue, and I hope that we will resolve it in good cooperation with you. I do not want to tell you today that your proposal is somehow behind the table and that it is not taken into account at all in terms of analysis. It is certainly taken into account, and that is the way I think it should be. Here in the Riigikogu, we see much broader cooperation, not just within the coalition or opposition. I congratulate the Free Party, which has really worked well with the government on a number of issues, and at least on our side this will go on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U281	Against the background of this joyful knowledge, Question Time is over. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Minister Sester and Minister Palo.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U282	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U283	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, Since yesterday, Parliament has the opportunity to discuss the Kender case because the decision has fallen in the main part. I ask: yesterday, in relation to Kender's case, the accused prosecutor, via TV, stated that the case was legally interesting and deserves to be appealed for legal interest and legal clarity. 'Do you consider it ethical,' I ask the Minister of Justice, Reinsalu, 'that the prosecutor's office will appeal against the decision on the motive of legal curiosity and ignore the suffering he has caused to an innocent person over the years? Do you consider Pähkel's continuation to be ethically acceptable in this matter, since the statements made by Pähkel on television are cynical and unethical? Do you consider Pähkel's educational level sufficient to continue the process? Doubts are aroused by the fact that the question, which is literature, needed to be explained to Pähkel by the professor of literature. " He didn't know what it was. At the same time, I want Reinsalu to ask the DA's office that kind of thing. In the press, numerous material has appeared in these weeks about seemingly corrupt schemes in the city's waste management and I absolutely agree with Taavi Asa: this is a very bad appearance. How much attention has the prosecutor's office devoted to examining this scheme? If the DA's office is chasing a writer, and right here on the side, we are dealing with an extremely bad scheme that the DA's office doesn't deal with, then I have the right to ask: what right do we pay the tax to the DA's office? What right does the DA's office randomly deal with things he likes, and what right does the DA's office fail to read the newspapers and ignore the television? The performer will be Gräzin. It says down here: 'Not for a moment, with the breaking respect of Your Igor Gräzin. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U284	I assume this is an inquiry. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U285	Mr. Chairman! The Finance Committee gives a draft decision to the Riigikogu's proceedings on the appointment of a member of the Gambling Tax Board. We will base this decision on a letter from the Minister of Education and Research. The decision will trade one member, Janar Holm, for Chancellor Tea Varrak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U286	I have adopted a draft and an inquiry, and we will continue to work with them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu are present, 17 are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U287	The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Act on the External Action Service and the Public Service Act 324 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Foreign Service Act and the Public Service Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 324. Please take a stand and vote. 81 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the Bill 324, and there were no respondents or abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U288	"Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme to support the defence capability structure of Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation', submitted by the Government of the Republic, is the first reading of Draft 451. The initiating waitress is the Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U289	Honourable Riigikogu! Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Before you at first reading is the draft decision of the Riigikogu 451 'Use of the Defence Forces in the fulfilment of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the training programme for supporting the defence capabilities of Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation'. According to this draft, pursuant to § 128 (1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and § 34 (1) of the National Defence Act, the Riigikogu decides, first, to use up to five active troops of the Defence Forces from the entry into force of this Decision until 31 December 2017 in the training programme to support the reconstruction of the defence capabilities of Iraq led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. The second point is that the ceiling of the Defence Forces personnel set out in paragraph 1 of this Decision may be increased during the rotation period to 10 active troops within 30 days of the arrival in Iraq of the active troops taking part in the rotation. It is a draft that requires two readings and gives the relevant mandate. Now, from the background of this draft decision. In 2017, NATO launched a training programme to support the reconstruction of Iraqi defence capabilities, which in English sounds like Defence Capacity Building...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U290	Excuse me, Minister. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U291	I'm sorry to interrupt your conversation, but let's make this decision. Thank you very much, Chairman. DCB is the abbreviation we'll use later. It provides precisely for small training teams to be deployed to Iraq for a short period of up to two months, consisting of five to ten active troops. The training programme is a NATO-led activity aimed at the alliance against threats from the south. Estonia's participation in the programme is in line with our security and foreign policy interests. Indeed, as you well know, we welcome NATO units in the Baltic States and Poland here. A major exercise is currently taking place in the Spring Storm, where NATO units are also participating. And in order to demonstrate NATO's unity, and also to ensure real unity, Estonia contributes to all its missions to ensure security elsewhere, along with its allies. Then the allies will do the same here on our border and on NATO's eastern border. Within this DCB, Estonia, in cooperation with other NATO countries, is preparing to contribute in two areas: military medicine and the fight against improvised explosive devices. In these two areas, the Iraqi security forces have the most critical capacity gaps, for which Iraq has formally requested the support of NATO countries. We therefore need to deal with these problems in cooperation with our allies, including in one of their main focal points in Iraq. Now Estonia's contribution. I'm asking you for a mandate to send up to five active troops on a mission. Our real plan is to send in one person, but if it is necessary, the mandate until the end of the year would be to increase this real contribution. There is no need to explain to you, good Riigikogu, the importance of participating in these missions. It is necessary to ensure our own security. I want to thank all our active troops, the mission soldiers who have been on missions over the years and who are there now. They serve the interests of our own country. It's gonna cost the country too. Our calculation is as follows: The costs of participating in the operation in 2017 are calculated at EUR 43000 and are covered by the resources provided by the Riigikogu in the State Budget Act to the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the same 2%, part of which is intended to cover these costs in order to send our active troops to the mission. That's all I got. I hope that the Riigikogu will support this draft decision. I wish you all a very busy day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U292	Any questions for the initiator of the bill? No, it's not. Thank you, Secretary of Defense Margus Tsahkna! The waitress of the National Defence Commission is Ants Laaneots. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As the Minister has already said, the draft submitted by the Government of the Republic envisages the participation of up to five Estonian active troops in a training programme to support the reconstruction of the defence capabilities of Iraq led by NATO, called Defence Capacity Building. This is a non-combat programme aimed at NATO from the south, particularly against potential threats from the Middle East. The training programme shall provide for the deployment of small training teams with rotation periods of up to two months to Iraq. They contribute to the training of local military personnel, as the Minister has already mentioned, in the fight against military medicine and improvised explosive devices. Indeed, in these two areas there is the most critical capacity gap in the Iraqi security forces, which the Iraqi Government has formally requested NATO assistance to address. The new programme, launched in NATO at the meeting on 8 May, was presented to the members of the Commission by representatives of the Ministry of Defence's administration, including the Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration in the capacity of the Deputy Chancellor of Defence Policy Erki Kodar. The programme envisages sending small units to Iraq for a short period of time. This is a mission on the same legal basis as the international military operation Inherent Resolve, which was launched last year and led by the US, in which Estonia is already training Iraqi military personnel. The difference is that the framework for the new operation is different. As this program is still under development, the mission would initially be attended by a military officer, an explosive expert. The full-scale training programme will start in September of this year, according to current plans. In order to show solidarity with NATO's new and necessary undertaking, Estonia aims to join it as soon as possible. Thus, on the basis of this draft, Estonia fulfils its responsibilities arising from NATO membership. Procedural decisions. At the meeting of 8 May this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft under discussion be included on the agenda for the first reading of the meeting of the Riigikogu on 17 May and to propose that the first reading of the draft be closed. The rapporteur for the Commission was appointed here. At this meeting, the National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Chairman of the Riigikogu that the deadline for submitting amendments be set. 5.15 p.m. on May 31st. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U294	Any questions for the Commission's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Ants Laaneots! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 451 is complete. The deadline for submitting amendments shall be set at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U295	The next item is the first reading of draft 403 of the Riigikogu's decision to propose to the Government of the Republic to suspend Estonia's participation in the refugee redistribution plan. The initiating waitress is Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U296	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests on the balcony! It is true that on 20 March the s. a the Conservative People's Party has submitted a draft proposal to the Government of the Republic to suspend Estonia's participation in the plan for the redistribution of refugees. Specifically, the purpose of this draft. To begin with, Estonia will participate in the redistribution plan agreed on 22 September 2015 at the Justice and Home Affairs Council of the European Union. In doing so, the Republic of Estonia undertook to relocate and settle 553 people from Greece, Italy and Turkey. This decision had been given a mandate at the meeting of the European Union Affairs Commission on 10 September 2015, according to which Estonia prefers mutual assistance on a voluntary basis. The purpose of this draft can be commented on in such a way that, as Estonia has been one of the most advanced countries in fulfilling its voluntary obligation to relocate and settle refugees, 140 persons have arrived in Estonia. As the Government of the Republic of Estonia has emphasised the voluntary participation in this mechanism, Estonia can also voluntarily suspend its implementation. One reason undoubtedly is the incident that took place six months ago, where in a refugee family that arrived in Estonia, the man tied his husband up and threatened to set his wife on fire. He's currently under trial for attempted murder and rape. In the second case, the husband set fire to a husband who, to this day, lies in intensive care with unconsciousness and severe burns. This man has been detained and is awaiting trial. In order to ensure the security of Estonian people and to avoid cultural contradictions, it is reasonable to suspend the reception of refugees for an indefinite period of time. Poland does not participate in the mechanism for the redistribution of refugees in the European Union, which has challenged the relevant decision before the European Court of Justice on the ground that it is a compulsory quota system. If it were to assist each other on a voluntary basis, Poland's decision would not have been justified. According to current information, the court settlement should come by the end of this year. It should also be noted that, in recent days, pressure has been increased by the European Commissioner for Migration, Dimitris Avramopoulos, who is threatening Poland and Hungary with sanctions if these countries voluntarily refuse to assist Greece, Italy and Turkey and accept migrants within the quota allocated to them. Nor is social impact of little importance. According to studies carried out by Kantar Emor, Turku Research AS and the Institute of Social Studies, the Estonian public does not support immigration in the way it has been supported in Western Europe and the Nordic countries. The Riigikogu received two petitions from citizens between 2015 and 2016, the first with 19000 signatures and the second with 40,000 signatures. The suspension of the reception of refugees would therefore significantly alleviate societal tensions. It should be noted that the draft was also on the table in the Committee on European Union Affairs for an opinion. There it was discussed for quite a while and a decision was also made which needed to be voted on in order to give guidance to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. According to the vote at the meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, only one Member of the Commission, the speaker here, supported the approval of the draft, all others, including the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. It should certainly be mentioned that the introduction of the Conservative People's Party Group's draft gave an article of opinion by the honourable colleague Kalle Muuli a few days before the submission of this draft in mid-March. According to him, Estonia should suspend its participation in the current quota system. Since we saw that our ideas were also to be welcomed by the coalition ambassadors, we considered it necessary to come halfway and submit a draft and give other members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association the opportunity to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U297	Questions. There are no questions for the originator. Thank you. The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Mart Nutt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U298	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on 9 May. In addition to the members of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu and Henn Põlluaasa, the advisers of the committee and the press advisor of the Public Relations Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu Eva Vahur were present at the meeting of the committee. To begin with, the draft was presented by Henn Põlluaas, on behalf of the EKRE Group, as I said, who presented basically the same arguments as the previous speaker. That is why I am not going to repeat them, but I am going to turn to the reasoning. The first question was asked by Riigikogu member Peeter Ernits of the Centre Party, who noted that on 22 September 2017 two years have passed since the approval of the redistribution mechanism, and in fact only a quarter of the refugees who are scheduled to receive have actually arrived in Estonia during this period. Do the drafters have any information on whether there will be many more refugees coming to Estonia in the near future? Henn Põllaas replied that refugees were definitely coming, and officials from the Police and Border Guard Board were in the process of selecting them. There was no mention of any number and more secure process, but he mentioned that, despite the choice to be made, Estonia is unable to exercise substantive control over these people. They are not subject to any background data, nor are there any databases to check them. Mart Nutt said that Mr Põljaas has highlighted very important problems, but they largely go beyond the framework of this draft. If you look at the number of people affected by this proposal, it is relatively small, especially when compared to how many immigrants come to Estonia every year. That's what Mr. Pier said. Chairman of the committee Ken-Marti Vaher pointed out that in 2016 the Riigikogu adopted the law amending the law on granting international protection to foreigners and related amendments to other laws. This law introduced changes concerning the resettlement of refugees from outside the European Union and the relocation of refugees from other Member States of the European Union. The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party was also in favour of these changes, i.e. it voted in favour of them. I also note Mr Adams' statement. He pointed out that the European Union's open door policy was, in principle, retreating and that it was positive. At the same time, the European Union has failed to do anything, to shape any policy that would reduce the risks of possible next mass migration. Following this debate, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took procedural decisions. First, to put a draft of 403 on the agenda of the plenary assembly today, 17 May (the decision was taken by consensus); second, to propose a final vote on the draft (also by consensus) and to appoint Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs (exactly by consensus). I will also read out who was part of the consensus: these were members of the Riigikogu Ken-Marti Vaher. Mart Nutt, Anneli Ott, Ivari Padar, Peeter Ernits, Henn Põlluaas, Helmut Hallemaa, Jüri Adams, Arto Aas, Lauri Luik and Kalle Laanet. I would like to remind you that the draft requires a majority of its component members for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U299	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U300	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft act refers to tensions in society. Was there any mention of this at the committee meeting? Do the Members of the Commission think that we have tensions with regard to the issue of refugees? And if I may also ask: if this was not specifically mentioned at the committee meeting, what is the rapporteur's own position?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U301	Henn Põljaas, who introduced the problem, spoke very widely about the existence of the whole migration problem and also highlighted the tensions in society. The rapporteur also gave a concrete example that one person who received the shelter had set his wife on fire. I do not think it is right for me to pass on the originator's position at the committee meeting. I expect that he will have the opportunity to speak and to present his position in greater detail here. What is my personal opinion? It may not be appropriate to state this as a rapporteur on behalf of the Commission, but there is no point in denying that any process that brings people of different cultural backgrounds to a certain degree of tension. There's no point in denying that. The question now is whether we are able to solve these problems and, secondly, whether we are capable of fulfilling our international obligations. I think we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U302	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, waitress! As the draft rapporteur Jaak Madison pointed out, this draft was inspired by your party partner Kalle Muuli's view that the admission of quota refugees should be suspended. Both in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and in ELAK, your party members voted against it. I would like to know if Kalle Muuli's position does not represent your party's position. Does the party think otherwise, or has your party changed its mind in the meantime, or does your party have no intention of covering for its words at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U303	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U304	Mart Nutt is in the chair as a Commission waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U305	If you don't mind, that's what I wanted to say. Dear Mr. Helme! I am not representing the party's views at the moment, but I am giving an overview of the debate that took place in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U306	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U307	What is your personal assessment: for example, does the hysteria inspired by Vao's arson also represent the tensions that exist or prevail in society in relation to this subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U308	I must say that this issue was not in the debate in committee on today's draft. I suggest you contact the Ministry of the Interior on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U309	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, I would like to clarify your personal position. Have you discussed this at your group meeting and shaped the group's opinion? As far as I know, you are still not an independent Member under the window, but a member of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Have you shaped your position and how your group has decided to vote on this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U311	The way we vote, the way we see it in the hall. However, as we have also seen in the minutes, our group, like many other groups, did not present its position during the debate. This means that our group members will decide for themselves how they will vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U312	No further questions. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U313	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, As an initiative for today's mammoth session, our group proposes ending the participation in the admission of quota refugees. This proposal has inspired two facts. One is that people who have been brought to Estonia and have carried out a very thorough background check are currently being tried here because of very serious crimes. Rape and setting people on fire have not been a very common type of crime in Estonia so far. The latter arrived in Estonia with so-called refugees. The second was the statement by Kalle Muuli, Member of the current government coalition, Parliamentary Ambassador of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, that the admission of quota refugees should be suspended. I agree. I repeat once again our party's position: Estonia's quota is zero. In fact, there are no refugees among those who have come to Europe in 2015 and 2016. I cannot even say that they have invaded here, because Europe, after all, accepts them with open arms, provides them with a transport service for taxpayers' money under the name of border guard work, as well as a dispersal service. There is no need to break the border to come to Europe because there is no external border. However, it is necessary to maintain a mafia structure for human trafficking, which begins somewhere in Africa and, of course, ends in the political levels of European countries. We should not be involved in such a scheme, especially given a number of important factors. Firstly, as I have already said, most of these people are not refugees. They are illegal immigrants whose main motivation is economic. Secondly, after Latvia, our Estonia is the countries with the largest foreign origin, i.e. immigrant population, at all. We have this figure about 35%, Latvia over 40%. In France, for example, the number of immigrants is around 12 per cent, in the Netherlands around 15%, in all other countries 10% or less. So a clear message: if France, England, Holland, Italy, Greece, any other country, reaches 35% of the population of foreign origin, let us start talking about solidarity and how refugees should be spread evenly. In the meantime, tell it to someone else! We should not receive any outsiders who we do not want or have not invited. Raising the problem in this form, i.e. bringing it to Parliament, everyone knows that we have raised this issue in many ways with our drafts, is related to the question of whether the speeches made by a member of the Riigikogu belonging to the government department have any weight or not. Can it be allowed to mislead the public as Kalle Muuli did? If we now see that the IRL does not support this bill, it was a clear deception, it was an attempt to take a position to make an eye on the absolute majority of the Estonian public, who opposes the mass introduction of immigrants into the country and also their participation in the quota scheme, it was a clear attempt to fool people and to give the impression that IRL is also a powerful figure in immigration. We're about to see if there are any muscles. I say that even worse than being a soccer kind of person, who is basically estophobic and who wants to leave the Estonian people in their own country in a minority, even worse than such an honest position is such a two-faced position. Basically, people go along with the position of the Soviets, but the words say something about defending national interests. We won't let that happen, there's no point! There's no point, and we're not gonna let that happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U314	Raivo Time on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U315	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, We had a debate on migration issues in the group this morning. We discussed this with the Minister of the Interior. We have found that, indeed, the problem is continuing, it has not disappeared anywhere, but the European Union, together with our partners, is making quite a lot of efforts to find 'civilised solutions' for it. A civilized solution is not to leave people drowned or otherwise die. You can't treat people inhumanely who are either fleeing from vicious persecution or from war monsters. Indeed, Estonia has fulfilled about 30% of its commitment, and with it we are at an average level among European countries, as the Minister of the Interior has also assured us. So we have not been overly ambitious or overly lazy. What I am pleased about is that our colleagues in the EKRE Group are so easily encouraged by the views of one of the Members of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. It should always be like this! We'd be happy! At the same time, it has to be said that the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica is more humane and democratic internally than it is apparently in the EKRE. We do not have a group lined up in the morning, orders are handed out, and everyone has to speak the same thing and read their views on the same memo. However, this does not mean that the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance have absolutely not dealt with this issue. We have dealt with and have discussed several times with Minister for Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, how to find solutions to the problem. That is why the Ministry of Justice has proposed twice, on 31 March and 9 May, to the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu to amend the law on granting international protection to foreigners. This would be primarily an amendment to the two paragraphs of the Law, which are § 49 and § 50. One relates to the revocation of refugee status or refugee status and the other to the expulsion of an alien under certain conditions. The substance of the matter is that these amendments are also driven by these same cases. If this is an extremely lawless person who has been granted refugee status in Estonia, then there should be an opportunity to withdraw this status in a much simpler way than has been the case so far. Indeed, the current regime provides that a refugee must have committed a first-degree crime, so it is possible to withdraw refugee status from him. Through the Ministry of Justice, it was proposed that refugee status can also be lifted for other serious crimes, such as crimes against individuals, drug crimes, crimes against children and other misconducts, which pose a serious threat to public order. However, this must also be accompanied by a state assessment that this activity really poses a threat to the public policy of the State. In the event of a security threat, it is still possible to withdraw this status. So yesterday, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, this issue was discussed again. Yesterday, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided that, on 29 May, after we return from a week without sitting, we will re-table this issue. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U316	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U317	Apparently, the Committee on Legal Affairs will be ready to come up with its own draft by then. So the problems still have to be solved in proportion to the nature of the problems and take into account the extent of the threat, rather than 'kill' on a wider scale than the problem triggers. We also heard the Interior Department's position. The position of the Ministry of the Interior is that there may be some problem with the implementation of this legislative amendment, especially if there is still a war in the country of the refugee we received or his life there would be a threat for other reasons, but we would like to send him out. Then we can't do it. This is not permitted by the Convention. However, there is an opportunity to look for another safe country, where, for example, relatives or acquaintances of that refugee who are willing to take him in, and where there are traditions that are significantly closer to his or her worldview, his or her cultural space. To complement this, the criminal proceedings must have been passed by all the courts and must have entered into force by a judgment which provides for a custodial sentence. We hope that we in this Riigikogu will be able to move forward quickly with these proposals and to respond adequately to such acts that cause great resonance in society in the future, in compliance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U318	Mr Ammas, on behalf of the Free Party Group, speaking from the floor, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U319	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The Estonian Free Party Group still considers that the immigration policy of the European Union has been inadequate, and so we do not agree with the mandatory quota system proposed by the European Commission. In this respect, we share the concerns of the authors of the draft we are dealing with and the concerns of many good Estonians. We still believe that all refugees who are not prepared to accept the laws and practices of the Estonian state and do not comply with the obligations imposed on them must leave this country. In our opinion, however, the purpose of this draft is not to analyse Estonia's refugee policy in substance. This was also referred to by the rapporteur himself, who gave the motivation to Mr Muuli's specific position. In our opinion, despite very ugly individual cases, there are currently no very large social tensions in Estonia to which the draft explanatory memorandum refers. The representatives of the Estonian state have acted fairly well and adequately on the issue of refugees, and this must continue to be done. To conclude, the Free Party Group does not currently see the need to deal with such a spontaneous draft and does not vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U320	Now I'm embarrassed as manager. Please have a microphone for Lauri Luige, who is the only leader of the Reform Party Group in the Chamber. The political groups and committees have the floor in the negotiations. At the moment, Jürgen Ligi has registered for speaking and Igor Gräzin for speaking from his seat. Who am I supposed to give a chance to tell? I have a question for Lauri Swan and I ask him to answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U321	Yes, Jürgen Ligi is a rapporteur for the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U322	I also have a question for Urmas Kruus. Am I right to assume that the Committee on Rural Affairs has not given Igor Gräzin the task of speaking on this matter? Thank you. On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U323	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! I believe Martin didn't go to kindergarten yet when I got acquainted with the Rome Club reports and global issues at the university and it became very clear to me what was going to happen. We thought this would happen earlier, but it was certain that overpopulation and lack of resources would lead to conflicts between peoples, migration of peoples and war. At the time, the borders of the Russian state were, of course, closed, and we sensed it in a slightly different way, because the migration of nations was a national policy, not a spontaneous pressure. You can't be stuck in a free world like that. This is the first problem with this draft: borders, walls can still only be circumscribed; they cannot be endlessly violent. We can't get rid of migration by axe methods. But the migration problem is, it has to be admitted. He's definitely a risk to our lifestyle, but he's also a risk to small people in general, if you look well in the long run. For me, this subject was acutely brought up again two years ago when I had to give ministers how to say, reprimand or teach them to listen, do not make such a carefree face. I was told what to deny is so simple: are we EKRE or are we not? We can't talk about it like that. But that's a problem. EKRE has been able to create the impression that global problems or the migration of peoples are only their subject, of which no one else understands anything. In social media, you can see how fanatically everyone who has expressed some intelligent concern about this subject is accused. They're called traitors. I must say that in 2015, not only the Estonian ministers, but also the European countries, were without concern. Remember what he did to the Austrian flowers that Chancellor Merkel did back then? It was very painful to look at it. It was unsustainable. Fortunately, it has changed now, and there is no more such carefree attitude. I am glad that Estonia, however, took a more responsible attitude early and limits the quota. The point is that global problems cannot be solved by the axe method, but they can be mitigated or controlled by world order, by legal and organisational methods, the implementation of which includes the European Union. We will not solve any global problems alone, isolation and other wars against Europe. So we actually have a relatively controlled refugee policy, which I only welcome. It does not involve serious risks, but it still basically involves humanity for the people we choose here, who are in real trouble in such a situation that the members of the Riigikogu have never seen or experienced. We don't know exactly how these things are. So we're people, let's not be beasts against these unfortunates, let's try to show proper empathy, but let's not break the system that's trying to solve the world's problems! The European Union is certainly part of this system and I regret, in this sense, that the EKRE is destructive to everything that is essentially trying to solve the problems. A little extra time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U324	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U325	The solution in substance is not such a full-time reception of refugees, but an agreed quota policy. In two years, it has changed considerably that it has begun to try to solve problems where they arise. More people have been kept where they are naturally more at home. A relatively good migration agreement with Turkey has been reached so far. Refugees are being held there. Let us develop this system! Indeed, these people must be created living conditions, doing so and resolving conflicts where they come from. If necessary, money must also be paid out, which the European Union has begun to do. So let's keep our fingers crossed with this policy that is now, let's not sink it into such a gruesome opposition to agreements! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U326	On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U327	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I start with the fact that I'm always so happy when I meet a patriot. This is certainly necessary in order to explain to people what compromises we are looking for, what points of the agreement are, and on what subject we have disagreements, how the negotiation process is going to take place in the first place. Normally, it is not to be seen with great constructiveness, but when someone next to it starts talking about how one nation or another needs to be dealt with, one nation or another, people are momentarily able to understand where the truth is. I wouldn't have come to this remote control like I said, the EKRE rhetoric really sits on me. But I was reminded of how we sometimes sit in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and discuss how much this 0.1% immigration quota is much or little, and where our stable development is and where the overheated economy is. Then everyone's going to take on this 0.2 or 0.3%. And then comes someone who is trying to protect the Estonian people from some kind of threat from immigrants. By the way, there are 130000 Estonian citizens among immigrants, including some 100,000 people who do not have citizenship. But someone's coming and saying we have 35% immigrants. It's getting really excited. Learn your lessons! Take a look at the Statistics Department, get your shit straight! These figures are known to everyone: 1309000 inhabitants, of which 903000 Estonians and, after all, we get a percentage of about 70. I can tell you exactly that after the census, there were 69.8% Estonians in Estonia and not 65% Estonians. And given that among other people the population decline is faster than among Estonians, I assume that the next population census already shows some 71 or 72%. Here's the dynamic. It may sound like some kind of stellar chewing, but if you're already being yelled, every tenth is important, when someone comes to say that immigrants, as they're called, we have 35%, then it throws over. You can say anything, but please check the bill! We do not support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U328	Igor Gräzin, I understand you have a procedural question for the manager. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U329	Yeah, he's a double procedure. And now please don't stop me! The first procedural error was that the President of the sitting did not give the floor for the procedural remark. I hope it will be fixed in the verbatim: Gräzin had a procedural remark, the chair refused to speak, and...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U330	There must be a procedural question, no procedural remarks. Is there a question?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U331	There's a question. The question is this: why, for what purpose did the President authorise such a joint statement by the Commission? The introduction contained nothing, he read the minutes, and that was all. I will ask this question for the third time in relation to the third report. Will the Bureau continue this practice that we are simply read on paper: it said, it voted, etc.? We can read for ourselves. This is a waste of time and attention in the Riigikogu. Without going personal: what was Mart Nutt doing in the remote? What did you need him for? That's all that's known, and he always insisted that I only do this and that and that. That's right, he acted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But why are we wasting time? It's a question. I repeat, I say this for the third time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U332	I will probably also reply for the third time that the Board of the Riigikogu really does not prescribe to the committees what their presentation should be. But if the leaders of the committees were inspired by the current question of MP Gräzini, I am very pleased about that. It is certainly not possible for the Commission to present its group or its own views; it would simply not be fair to the rest of the Commission. Mart Nutt, procedural.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U333	Thank you, I am inevitably obliged to answer Mr Gräzin's question. In fact, I've actually pointed that out on the remote. I didn't read the protocol. If Mr. Gräzin picks up the protocol and reads it, he'll see it. However, the Commission's rapporteur does not have the right to speak what was not discussed in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U334	Honourable Riigikogu, I will close the negotiations and go to the final vote. We can go to the final vote because no amendments were tabled to draft 403. However, since the draft requires a majority of the Riigikogu's membership for adoption, please do a check-in! 52 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 'Proposal for the Government of the Republic to suspend Estonia's participation in the refugee redistribution plan' draft 403. Please take a stand and vote. By 7 to 30, with 1 abstention. The draft decision was not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U335	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity and tobacco law initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Commission's waitress is Priit Sibul. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U336	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the government initiated this draft on 6 February and the main changes by 2018 are the taxation of alternative tobacco products by excise duty, the increase in excise duty rates for cigars and cigarillos and the conversion of their excise duty rate into two components, which depends on volume and price, as is currently the case for cigarettes, the granting of excise duty to the consignee of the goods at a distance, and the reduction of the administrative burden on economic operators on their accounts. An alternative tobacco product is, for excise purposes, different from a classic tobacco product with a nicotine content or no nicotine content, which is used in the same way as a tobacco product or for the same purpose. Alternative products are e-cigarette filling fluid, steam stones replacing water pipe tobacco and the liquid used to season them, as well as steam stones themselves and other alternative tobacco products that are not solid or liquid but, for example, gel. Alternative tobacco products are subject to excise duty in order to eliminate unequal competition between alternative and classic tobacco products in order to prevent the loss of excise revenue as a result of the replacement of the consumption of conventional tobacco products by alternative products and in order to protect public health. The bill was in this Chamber at first reading on 22 February, and that is why I recall what we discussed quite a while ago. By the deadline for the tabling of amendments, 9 March, we received nine amendments, two of which were withdrawn by the authors, because they concerned an explanatory memorandum, not a draft, and we do not normally change the explanatory memorandum. Some of the amendments made by the same author were essentially related and such amendments were included by the Commission in the list as the basis points for the amendment, with the agreement of the latter. After the first reading, we have discussed this draft at five meetings: 21 March, 4 April, 19, 15 and 16 May. On 21 March, we had a meeting with stakeholders, where the Estonian Association of Tobacco Manufacturers, Philip Morris Eesti OÜ, AS Rasa Trading Company, OÜ Sigari Maja and Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry were represented. Representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance were also present at the meeting. As an expert, Dr. Ülle Ani, medical lecturer of the lung clinic at the University of Tartu Hospital, was involved. During this debate, we discussed assumptions and impact analyses concerning the taxation of e-cigarettes, the definitions of alternative tobacco products, the principles of excise duty on alternative tobacco products and excise duties, as well as changes in excise duties on cigars and cigarillos. The amendments received to the Riigikogu from the address of the interest groups were not supported by the commission, sticking to the draft and the views expressed in the explanatory memorandum of the initiator. By way of derogation, the Commission considered it necessary to clarify the issue of heated tobacco products. The Committee on Finance itself introduced two amendments, one of which improves legal clarity in the provisions on heated tobacco products, as I said, and the other simplifies the rules on excise warehouses in very small packages for the production of food supplements. Explanations of amendments are included in the list of amendments. The lead committee proposed to conclude the second reading by consensus and, if the second reading is completed, the final debate on the draft could take place on 31 May. Perhaps in a few words that the main changes that we discussed in addition to the products to be heated were proposals to reduce the excise duty rate on e-cigarettes. The government proposes to set a rate of EUR 0,2 per ml. We had a debate on whether to tax only nicotine fluids or all liquids. We have come to the understanding that we are sticking to the taxation of all liquids. The second issue was that perhaps we are setting too high a rate of excise duty if we opt for the EUR 0.2. There are proposals to initially tax it at a zero rate or at a rate of EUR 0.11 per ml. As I said, the Commission maintained that the proposed rate in the draft from the Government is appropriate. We discussed at length, in three or more sessions, these heated tobacco products. Indeed, they are different and different ministries had a different understanding of whether they fit into the excise law at the moment. I think that we finally achieved a consensual understanding with both the officials and the members of the Commission and supplemented the definition of cigarettes and smoking tobacco in such a way that it has now been extended to heated products. It is now unambiguous to all parties and regulated by law. These were the main points of discussion. Finally, we decided that the second reading could be concluded today and on 31 May, on Wednesday of our next working week, the draft could be put to the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U337	The round of questions will be opened by Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U338	Thank you. Excise duties are generally levied on harmful consumption. In this process, have you understood which product, whether a traditional cigarette or an electronic cigarette is more harmful to health, when dealing with all these different stakeholders and with the Ministry of Social Affairs? And do we even have enough information to assess the harmless or harmfulness of an electronic cigarette so that we can decide what the rate of excise duty should be? However, this should be correlated with its health effects. I mean the rate of excise duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U339	Thank you. That was the subject we discussed. I must admit that the various parties have a slightly different understanding. On 21 March, when we had this round table, there were still very conflicting views. The person invited from the University of Tartu Hospital as a specialist to the committee meeting also indicated that the harmful effects of smoking were reported and were only detected in 1964. It had been decades since smoking started, when it was realised that it was a health harmful product. Whether e-cigarette is less harmful or not harmful at all, or even a healing product, we cannot say today. However, Dr. Ann said that any such thing that we inhale is in no way beneficial to our organism. It is better to avoid all kinds of filters and breathe air without using other means. It is likely to be the most beneficial for health. All other substances, they reach our body from some kind of apparatus in the form of liquids, steam, or smoke, in any case, are not good for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U340	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have admitted that no competent research has been carried out in Estonia on the harmful effects of e-cigarettes. These opinions, which you have read now, are based on assumptions: yes, obviously, yes, and so on. However, competent research has been carried out elsewhere in the world, for example in Britain. These studies were also referred to by stakeholders, such as the e-cigarette consumer union. Why were these studies not taken into account? I also note that more than a year has passed since the discussion of the Ministry of Finance, and during that time much has changed in the world of e-cigarettes. Why didn't you take into account the latest information?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U342	Thank you for your question. As I said, we discussed this in the Commission, but, as in the case of smoking, these conclusions can probably be drawn in decades' time. However, e-cigarettes are still so new that they cannot be evaluated today. We don't have enough research yet. This study you referred to really went through the Commission's discussion, but it is certainly premature to draw one or the other conclusion. It seems to me that a number of committee members satisfied Dr An's views. It is obvious that no such liquid or other product can work very well, but whether they are less or more harmful to health, we simply do not have enough information to draw definitive conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U343	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U344	Thank you. Good Priit! You yourself are a rather conservative person, and you can conclude that by looking at your attitude to other subjects. I wouldn't have the courage to deal with this excise duty rate here in the Riigikogu without knowing whether the product we regulate has a beneficial or harmful effect on health. Would it not be more reasonable to stop selling such products for as long as their effects are not known? I think we're doing some weird stuff here. We expect a certain number of people to die of health damage, and only then will we begin to assess the fair rate of excise duty on this product. We don't really know what people inhale from e-cigarette fluid and how harmful it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U345	The truth is, I don't know. That's what I've said many times. But it is probably not possible to ban something that is widely used. And since people and goods move freely in Europe, it is relatively pointless for us to ban it alone. But since it is a vice understood by the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, it is also reasonable to tax it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U346	In general, Europe is discussing the next Tobacco Directive and we are also looking forward to how the European Union intends to deal with these products. Of course, there is a connection between these laws. However, in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, there was a debate that perhaps the tobacco law should be amended and defined in the tobacco law. It turned out that in reality in Estonia, however, these definitions stem from the same excise law that we are amending today, and these definitions are also the basis for the tobacco law. So if you're going to do this, these definitions are going to come from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U347	Helmen Kütt
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U348	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U349	Good Priit! For now, please close your eyes and put your imagination to work. You did, didn't you? All right! You've just eaten a good Vienna schnitzel and you're drinking half a cup of Staropramen next to it, it's sweating, and you feel like now's the right time to put on a cigarette or a cigar or something. Tell me, please, what would you prefer in this case: the water thing or the real cigarette or the cigar? I'd like to know what tastes best.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U350	Thank you, Igor! This is not what we discussed in the Commission, and nobody asked me in the Commission to imagine it. But it was a beautiful picture. I'm sorry to tell you, though, I don't know how to answer your question. My last cigarette was pulled from my present country home in the woods. That was when I was ten years old or something. There were no such products and opportunities. And since then, I have not consumed these products.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U351	A friendly suggestion is a fantasy too much to ask questions, we have a long night ahead of us. [[???Saalist hüütakse: 'Aega on!' Naer.???]] Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U352	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear waitress, you have repeatedly said in the remote today that we do not know, we assume, we assume, we do not have any information. Do you consider it right to create a law based on assumptions and assumptions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U353	We know that this product is being consumed, that more and more people are moving from classic tobacco products to new products, and they certainly do not differ. What are we wise to do when people move from one group of merchandise to another and when there is a lack of certainty about what it is? I understand that we do not assume that this is a health product that should not be taxed. As long as we have this understanding and this certainty, it makes sense to tax it with excise duty and that is what we are based on.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U354	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U355	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I was hurt by a phrase in your report. You mentioned a reduction in the consumption of classical tobacco products and, consequently, a reduction in the country's income. You referred to this as the first important thing, and only then did you talk about human health. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U356	Maybe I slipped. Those are definitely two important things. We are likely to be able to influence people's habits with this excise duty in order for them to behave in a healthier way. I guess that's why these excise duties are taxed. And fortunately or unfortunately, it also brings money into the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U357	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U358	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! In terms of education, I ask how many users of heated tobacco products are in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U359	Unfortunately, this question cannot be answered, because there are currently no suppliers of heated tobacco products in Estonia who would have been approved by the Health Board. There is one large company that is involved in the introduction of the product and another whose product is sold in about ten countries in Europe. So it cannot be ruled out that there are consumers in Estonia, but there is not yet a movement to Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U360	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U361	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Commission waitress! Right here on the floor where you are standing now, Minister Ossinovski has confirmed that there is no medical research that tells the final truth about e-cigarettes. If you go to shopping centres, visual inspection suggests that the most active users of e-cigarettes at shopping centres are young people. Among them, consumers of traditional tobacco are no longer so much. In this light, did the Commission not discuss the possibility of introducing higher excise duties on e-cigarettes than on traditional tobacco products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U362	Thank you, good questioner! In particular, we did not consider this. As I said, several parties proposed significantly less taxation on this cigarette, but there was also a member of the Commission who certainly considered it important that we do not tax it less. We have put together an approach that e-cigarette is not just a liquid that we are taxing on excise duty. To consume it, you need some equipment. And so, in the end, the price of cigarettes does not differ very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U363	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U364	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm just going to theorize from here on, and it's going to be a pretty fun conversation about tax revenues. We don't know exactly what this information is. We think, we consider, we think. Tobacco products are very large, this sector is seriously wide. I know that pretty well. One thing is a regular cigarette, which is subject to excise duty, now we are also trying to tax e-cigarettes because they are obviously consumed. It may not be reasonable to ban them because they have not been shown to be more dangerous to health than a normal cigarette. If this issue is extended, perhaps certain tobacco products, which are widely distributed on the Estonian market, have also been discussed among the Estonian people, whose sales are prohibited, but what can be held? For example, it can be bought in Sweden. I'm talking about so-called mocha tobacco. Should the discussion extend to this product and broaden the debate on tax revenues?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U365	There was a very brief discussion about this in the Commission, and only in the context that Sweden has been authorised by the European Union to sell it, by way of exception. There was no further debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U366	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. I will open negotiations that are equally possible for everyone. Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U367	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a smoker, a pillow chimney, on the right hand, a package a day, worse than when the theatre had intense rehearsals, more went. I'm also a volunteer savior. Imagine, you're knee-deep in the snow, you put out the farmhouse, and you're gonna have to carry a water-filled hose that weighs almost 200 kilograms. And on one of those heavy fires, about three years ago, when I was carrying that hose on my back, I suddenly sensed that the soul was stuck. I was breathing. And it made me think I should change something in life. I wasn't such a tough guy that I could quit smoking day, I've tried it about ten times in my life. But then I heard about an alternative product called e-cigarette. I tried, and don't you know, about two months later, I had a missing morning cough. After about six months, without increasing my physical activity and starting to exercise, my aerobic form had improved. I wasn't breathing anymore, dragging a 200-pound hose full of water on fire. Today it has been said several times that we do not know whether these e-cigarettes are harmful or not, there are no studies, etc. Indeed, in Estonia they have not been made, but they have been made elsewhere in the world. In Britain, for example, many competent studies have been carried out. And these studies have even made the British government think: imagine, there is a state-funded social campaign called 'Smoker, exchange your cigarette for e-cigarette! " Why? We can say here that we think and expect, but there's research done. And without any research, you can tell whether e-cigarette involves passive smoking. No, it doesn't! For bystanders, e-cigarette is perfectly safe, unlike regular cigarettes. The Association of consumers of e-cigarettes brought 5,000 signatures to the Riigikogu, seeking a substantive debate. Unfortunately, this debate was not allowed to take place. There was a formal hearing, but there was no substantive discussion either at the meeting of the stakeholders or at the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Consumers of e-cigarettes do not object to excise duty. Of course, we're taxing excise duty, we don't mind. However, it could be taxed in such a way that the consumption of e-cigarettes does not become more expensive than the consumption of ordinary cigarettes. This is the case with the solution that is currently being proposed. Taking also into account the requirements of the European Tobacco Directive, which will apply on 20 May, the price of e-cigarettes will increase by around 65% compared to today. There are a lot of people who have gone from regular cigarettes to e-cigarettes. Yeah, nicotine's a addictive substance, you can't get rid of the addiction. The second thing is action, namely this action. Everyone who smokes knows: oh, let's take a smoke break! If the consumption of e-cigarette goes more expensive than the consumption of conventional tobacco, what happens then? Many people who have started to improve their own health and the environment and have switched to e-cigarettes will give up and start smoking regular cigarettes again. Many people who have considered giving up regular cigarettes do not give up because e-cigarette consumption is ultimately more expensive. Interesting thing was in the Committee on Monetary Affairs where I asked about the research. An official of the Ministry of Finance gave an example of an Italian study that was carried out about four years ago. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U368	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U369	You know what's going on in the computer market: you buy a computer, you go home with it, and he's already aged. The same is the case with e-cigarettes of technology is developing. And this Italian study, which had long been carried out, dealt with the first generation of e-cigarettes. When I asked why we were talking about this very outdated Italian survey, an official of the Ministry of Finance said: 'Well, this study is really old, but it is still a study. " How can we base such extremely outdated information? I will give another example from Italy. In Italy, a tax on e-liquids was introduced in 2014, increasing the retail price by 58%. We're gonna get it up more! By May 2015, the turnover of e-cigarettes in Italy had decreased by 70%, people started to consume conventional tobacco again, and after the introduction of excise duty, it collected an amount which represented only 0,3% of the excise duty collected in Italy, i.e. a completely marginal part. To conclude, one more important point. The excise duty also aims to tax nicotine-free e-cigarette liquids. Nicotine is a harmful substance, we know. It would be the same if we imposed excise duty on non-alcoholic beer. Maybe not the most meaningful thing to do. To conclude, consumers of e-cigarettes do not object to excise duty, but let us set it at a reasonable rate so that this product does not become more expensive than in Latvia. We know what happened to alcohol. Do not force consumers of e-cigarette to return to conventional tobacco again due to high excise duty, which will significantly harm their health and the health of the people around them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U370	Andres Ammas, do you have a procedural question or would you like a word about it? Then we'll listen to the Helmen Hunter who signed up earlier. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U371	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! I came here for a remote verbogram so I wouldn't get the wrong argument. Indeed, the Bureau directed the Social Affairs Committee's petition, with more than 5 000 signatures. The Social Affairs Committee had six months to deal with this petition due to the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu. Now it is, true, less than five months, but we had our first hearing. The petitioners have also been informed that the Commission will continue to deal with this issue. We do not exclude public sessions; we do not exclude joint meetings with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There is therefore no reason to claim that 5000 signatures could not even find a hearing and that this cannot be resolved after the hearing. We already have this obligation under the rules of procedure and the rules of procedure, and in fact we take every petition that has received at least 1000 signatures very seriously. I'm just saying it for the sake of the verbatim. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I cannot allow such a false claim to be made. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U372	The draft provisions will continue to be discussed by Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U373	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! For the sake of the report, I would very much like to thank Priit Sibula, the judge of this draft by the Commission. In two years, I have not yet seen in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that the Commission's facilitator takes some drafts so seriously, involving all parties and striving for the best result. It was an outstanding job. Thank you. But I would like to add that we will probably have to return to this problem and, of course, to the amendments to the tobacco law in the future, because the next European Union directive on this subject could oblige us to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U374	I give the floor to Madis Milling. His name was not mentioned directly, but since the views that Madis Milling has just addressed have been touched, he is entitled to do so. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U375	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will also explain for the sake of the verbatim: Mr Küttt, my information was not a false claim. The argument that the substance of the debate was not allowed to arise concerned the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Everyone's eyes are now directed towards the Committee on Social Affairs, and we expect a substantive discussion from there, unlike the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U376	There are no further requests to speak. I'm closing the negotiations. Six amendments have been tabled to bill 380. We will go to the examination of the amendments. The first amendment has been tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu. Pursuant to § 106 (2) of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, the amendment is not subject to the vote as it received less than two votes in favour of the commission. The second amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The third amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Andres Ammas, which has been partially taken into account by the commission in the second amendment. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The fifth amendment has been tabled by Madis Milling, member of the Riigikogu, the commission has disregarded it. Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U377	I would like to ask the Reform Party Group to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U378	Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 5 tabled by Madis Milling, Member of the Riigikogu. The decision of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Please take a stand and vote. The amendment was voted in favour by 18 votes to 47 with 2 abstentions. The proposal was not accepted. The sixth amendment has been tabled by a member of the Riigikogu, Artur Talvik. Due to § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, this is not a vote because it received less than 2 votes in favour in the Steering Committee. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 380. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U379	Fifth item: Second reading of Bill 374 of the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Erki Savisaare, member of the Economic Commission for the Chair, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U380	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 11 May and, first of all, let me remind you a little bit about what this is about. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft Customs Act on 23 January of this year. The purpose of the draft is to bring customs legislation into line with the new customs legislation of the European Union. The provisions repeating European Union legislation are deleted from the law and the terminology is amended. From 1 May 2016, the new Customs Code will be in force in the European Union, harmonising customs rules within the Union. For the trader, customs procedures will be easier and paperless. The main objective of the new Code is to establish uniform requirements and to bring customs clearance into a new, uniform electronic environment in all Member States of the European Union. The electronic environment will be set up gradually by 2020, with transitional provisions being implemented in 2016 to 202020. As the volume of the amendments is large, a new complete text of the Customs Act was drawn up for the sake of the readability of the law. The draft does not change the duties of the Tax and Customs Board in the implementation of customs legislation. The first reading of the bill took place on 22 March, the deadline for submitting amendments, by 5 April at 5 p.m., the members of the Riigikogu, the political groups and other committees did not submit proposals. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation for the second reading at its meeting on 11 May, which was attended by a representative of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission decided to propose 11 amendments to the draft, nine of which were submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs by the Ministry of Finance. All the proposals were supported by consensus within the Commission on the basis of the reasons set out in the list of amendments. Most of the changes were of a technical nature. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 17 May and to propose that the second reading be terminated. It was also decided that the final vote on the draft should the second reading be closed on 31 May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U381	There's no questioners on the board, but I'm still gonna ask the waitress if there are any questions? No, it's not. Thank you, dear waitress. I'm opening negotiations. I'll close the negotiations without opening them. There are 11 amendments to the proposal 374. We heard how it went with them in the Commission, but we are also going through them one by one in the big hall. The first amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. The remaining amendments have also been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs: 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. We have examined the amendments together. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 374. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U382	The sixth item on the agenda is the draft law 188 on the amendment of the Public Transport Act, Traffic Act and State Duty Act initiated by the members of the Riigikogu Einar Vallbaumi, Ivari Padari, Vilja Toomasti, Andre Sepa, Kalle Palling, Johannes Kerdi, Remo Holsmer, Jüri Jaanson, Ken-Marti Vaheri, Meelis Mälberg, Laine Randjärve, Anne Sulling, Marko Mihkelson, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Kivimägi, Jaanus Marrandi, Deniss Borodichi, Heidy Purga, Keit Pentus-Rosimand, Tanel Winter, Eerik-Niles Krossi, Kalle Laaneti, Igor Gräzini, Juhan Partsi, Kristjan Kõlljala and Martin Kuke. Today's the second reading. I would like to present the chair of the Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission, Toomas Kivimägi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U383	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Indeed, this is a bill initiated by 26 members of the Riigikogu already on 25 February 2016. So it's been over a year since we've reached second reading. But from the very beginning, I dare say that this has come to the fore: good news is coming. By the deadline for submitting amendments, 10 May 2016, a total of 21 proposals were received from members and political groups of the Riigikogu. Over the course of more than a year since the first reading, the Commission has been approached and proposed by various organisations. We have, if you count, 25 letters of these opinions. The number of these organisations is somewhat less than 25, as some organisations have expressed their views several times. For the sake of saving your time, I'm not going to read that long list. I do consider it very important to emphasise the cooperation between the first and second readings of the Economic Commission with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, as well as very good cooperation with the Counsellor of the Ministry of Justice, Tax and Customs Board, specialists of the Tallinn Transport Board, as well as the Office of the Chancellor of Justice. During the discussion on the preparation of amendments in the lead committee, a total of six working group meetings took place and there were nine meetings of the Economic Commission, where the subject was discussed. As a result, an amendment amending the wording of the entire draft was formulated by the Commission. The new wording came about in such a way that the Committee on Economic Affairs developed substantive principles and guidelines and subsequently replaced the old text with a new one. I once again congratulate the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, especially I would like to thank Hindrek Allveed and Madis Ehastu, as well as the secretariat of the Committee on Economic Affairs of Piia Schults, who did a very, very good job indeed. As I said, a total of 21 amendments were received after the first reading, plus one proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs itself. At the meeting of the Commission on 11 May 2017, representatives of the Centre Party and the Fatherland and Res Publica Union withdrew their amendments, not because they were neither substantive nor constructive, but because most of the content of these amendments was reflected in the Commission's amendment. There were five amendments on the table: one was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and four by Mr Ammas. Since the amendments tabled by Mr Ammas did not have the authority to withdraw from the committee, and perhaps Mr Andres would not have wanted them, the Commission discussed them and voted on them. But let's get to the point. Amendment 1 was tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs and its content is indeed to replace the whole text of the draft with a new one. I would like to say what is usually said at the end of the report as a matter of urgency: that the Commission decided to propose that the second reading be interrupted and that everyone should be given the opportunity to table amendments. Therefore, everyone in this Chamber has the opportunity to get a proper look at this draft and to table amendments again. I think this is well-founded, because indeed, the text of the draft law, as well as the principle approach, has changed very significantly. The most important, fundamental change in the starting point is that, while the original draft was intended to regulate the carriage of goods by means of an agreement with a separate regulation, the principle underlying the amendment proposed by the Committee on Economic Affairs is that the carriage of goods by road is also the carriage of goods by road. You could say it's one of the subspecies of taxi transport. Figuratively speaking, as of tomorrow, there would be no reason to talk about two different things - taxi and freight. According to the new draft, in both cases it is a taxi service and it makes sense therefore that regulation is largely the same. Just one example: the authorisation requirements are essentially completely identical. Currently, taxi transport is subject to a taxi driving licence, a passenger card and a driver's card, and all three of them are also required for conventional services. There are no differences in content. However, the differences are in the form, since the transport licence, the passenger card and the vehicle card are electronic in the case of conventional services, and the passenger card is tangible in the case of taxi transport. When you drive in the cab, I'm sure you've noticed it, it's got a picture of the driver, and it's got some information on it. Contract services do not require such a paper-based service provider to hold such a card. Another important change and a fundamental change in position is that the requirements for taxi transport are significantly relaxed. This is due to three factors. The first reason why the requirements for the carriage of taxis had to be relaxed is that the two initially different modes of transport, the conventional transport and the taxi transport would fit into a single box. Secondly, taxi drivers have long said that a number of requirements are rudiments and basically do not guarantee anything. Thirdly, the best guarantee of quality is fierce competition and, if this bill is approved, close competition is ensured. This is much better in terms of quality assurance than the limits and requirements laid down by the legislator in the law. What are the most important reliefs for taxi transport? The first very fundamental, one might say, even a revolutionary change is that taxiing is no longer restricted to a service area. It might be a little incomprehensible. In fact, taxi transport is generally limited to the administrative territory of the municipality which has issued it a transfer licence, a service card and a vehicle card. The law, however, made it possible to allow the provision of services in the territory of another municipality if the local governments cooperated and agreed to do so. I assume that Tallinn has such agreements with neighbouring municipalities. But it is actually incomprehensible that if you take it very strictly, for example, if you want to drive across the border from Pärnu to Sauga, it is as if you should not have such a taxi service. Now this restriction has disappeared, which means that current taxi drivers can also provide taxi services throughout Estonia, in any city or municipality. It is important that they comply with the requirements for taxi transport in the local government. This has probably not been done on a very large scale, but Tallinn, for example, has introduced quality requirements for taxi transport in the so-called euro class and some other requirements. Compliance with them is also mandatory if taxi transport is carried out in the administrative territory of another municipality. Another fundamental change is the abolition of the requirement for professional training for taxi drivers. This, too, seems to be a rudiment. I think the carriers themselves are interested in carrying out initial training. At the same time, it has been some expense, perhaps just over 100 euros, which taxi drivers have had to bear, and it also takes 30 hours. We believe that this has been unjustified regulation by the legislator. Thus, the requirement for professional training for taxi drivers disappears. Thirdly, the provision of taxi services is made flexible. It's also very revolutionary. I hesitated about this at the first moment, but this bill also grants the right to transport to current taxis on the basis of the information society platform. Taxi can pick up a person who pays by taximeter, but the same taxi can also provide a service on the basis of the information society platform, in which case the calculation is based not on a taximeter, but on the maximum price fixed and accepted on the basis of the information society service platform. This is also a fundamental change. I think that the rudiment is also that the deadline for issuing a taxi licence is 30 days and the deadline for issuing a passenger card is 15 days. The draft proposal is that both should be issued within seven days. In fact, thanks to the development of registers, it has become a very formal procedure. Rather, the entries in the register should be checked and the requirements for issuing one or the other card set out in the Public Transport Act should be checked. If the requirements are met, the cards may be issued. There is no reason to allow the carrier to wait 30 or 15 days. As far as the vehicle card is concerned, it is already subject to a seven-day period of issue. Now some more emphasis on the new text. First of all, the title of the bill has also changed. The amendment of the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act has been added so that the new title is the "Law amending the Public Transport Act, the Traffic Act and the State Fees Act'. It is specified what is not taxi transport. This is Section 3 (2) of the Public Transport Act: the carriage of passengers by passenger cars carried out by the transport operator on a planned route for private purposes, the purpose of which is not to generate revenue, is not considered to be a taxi transport. An example is the case where students fit in with the team to travel from Pärnu to Tallinn. One has a car, and if he wants to share his driving costs in any way, my boyfriend has often used it, then he has a perfectly legitimate right to call his friends and acquaintances who may be interested. It is not considered to be a taxi transport, and it is not covered by the Public Transport Act, and I do not think the tax administration is interested. I have already mentioned that § 57 (1) (2) of the Public Transport Act will be abolished and the requirement for the professional training of taxi drivers will also disappear. The next amendment is that taxi services may also be provided by taxis with no meter. There is no need to have a taximeter if a taxi is ordered and the price is calculated through an information society service. So whoever doesn't want to drive a cab doesn't have to get a meter. Anyone who wants to pick up people at a taxi stop or get customers through a subscription centre, it has to get a meter. As far as the price of driving is concerned, it is known that in some municipalities maximum prices are set for taxis. Where the ordering and pricing of a taxi is carried out through the information society service, the carrier must inform the driver of the driver's first and last name, the number of the passenger card and the maximum cost of the journey, including taxes, before the start of the journey. The photograph must also be transmitted. If the destination of the journey is not fixed in advance, the passenger must be informed of the price components, the tariffs on which the price is calculated or the other basis for calculating the price in such a way as to enable the passenger to calculate the final price of the journey with sufficient accuracy. As a general rule, where a destination is known, the maximum cost of the journey must be known for the journey ordered through the information society service. If no one knows the destination, then indeed no one can calculate the price of the journey, then the basis for calculating the charge must be known. There is another important change that concerns classic taxi transport. Currently, only two tariffs are available for taxi transport: daily tariff and night rate. Taxi drivers have repeatedly expressed the view that there should be greater flexibility in this respect. According to the draft amendment, it is possible to set tariffs on the basis of some other time criteria, in addition to the daily and night rates. However, this can be done by the local government. For example, local authorities have the right to set a weekend tariff or some other tariff, even on New Year's Eve and 1 January. This competence is, of course, the local government. But this flexibility is provided for. All that I have been talking about so far was Amendment 1. Now, however, the following amendments, which remained on the table: Amendment No 2 was tabled by Mr Ammas and its content was that the convention operator should be subject to the same requirements as the taxi operator. Today, I can confirm that these requirements are the same, but somehow the Commission decided not to take this proposal into account. However, I dare say that Mr Ammas' proposal has been taken into account in substance. Amendment 3 was of a technical nature. This, too, was decided not to be taken into account by the commission. Amendment 4 concerns requirements for vehicles. These requirements are also equivalent, even in the case of roadworthiness tests. Even now, cars that carry taxis have to be screened every year. This requirement can also apply to people who carry out taxi transport on the basis of their own private car or on the basis of an information platform in the form of a service. Amendment 5 is also on equivalent requirements. I dare say that all the proposals made by Mr Ammas have been taken into account in substance in Commission Amendment 1, which deals with the text as a whole. Finally, procedural decisions. At the meeting of the Economic Commission on 11 May 2017, it was proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 17 May 2017, the decision being consensual. Secondly, it was decided to propose the suspension of the second reading, which was also consensual. Thirdly, it was decided to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 17 p.m. on 31 May 2017. This decision was also consensual. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U384	There are questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U385	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Respectable waitress! First of all, thank you for your very clear presentation. However, I would like to clarify the requirements for taxi drivers, because I do not have the entire public transport law available. I remember at first reading we spent a lot of time in this hall discussing how the leader's reputation and language skills are and everything else. Can you be more specific about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U386	Thank you for your question. This is § 57 of the Public Transport Act. There are not too many of these requirements. In reality, there are currently only two requirements. Firstly, the right to drive a motor vehicle of category B at least must be exercised and, secondly, it must be of good repute. As far as this good reputation is concerned, a number of paragraphs of the Penal Code have been listed, which must not have been applied. If it's not there, there's a good reputation. If a person has been punished, he does not have a good reputation and then he does not get a service card. There are no language requirements in the Public Transport Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U387	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U388	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I, too, thank you for the very clear and substantive overview of all the major changes that this bill has undergone. You also worked very hard with interest groups. Will the Cab Association and Uber's men agree with all these changes, or will there be some disagreements that will certainly have to be resolved or at least tried to be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U389	Thank you for your good words. There is no denying that, indeed, in the final phase, we worked very closely with the various interest groups, both with taxi drivers and with the representatives of the tradesmen. I think it was extremely important to get to the text of the draft that is acceptable to both sides, and it will have a symbolic meaning when we get it over with. I dare say that no country in Europe has been able to resolve this issue to this day. What Lithuania did was a formal word of speech, nothing more. Our draft offers a substantive solution and I dare say that the vast majority of the representatives of taxi drivers, as well as the most famous representatives of Uber and Taxify, are satisfied with this. Of course, this is a compromise and, if it is a compromise, it is certainly not satisfied with everything, but there are only a few nuances left on which they have sent letters. But now we have a pretty new draft text. The second reading is interrupted today and we are certainly open to new proposals, also by members of the Riigikogu. But yes, I dare say we're very close to the church being built in the middle of the village.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U390	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. There are no more questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Five amendments have been tabled to the draft 188. Inevitably, I repeat in many ways what the honourable rapporteur has already said, but the rules in the Chamber require that we examine the amendments together. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs; the decision of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendments 2, 3, 4 and 5 have been tabled by Mr Andres Ammas, member of the Riigikogu, but, as a result of § 106 (2) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, they are not subject to the vote because they received less than 2 votes in favour in the Steering Committee. The commission has proposed to suspend the second reading of the draft 188. Second reading aborted. I shall set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by the date set by the Commission at 17 May at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U391	Seventh item: Second reading of the draft Act amending § 7 of the National Defence Act initiated by the National Defence Committee. For the presentation, I invite Madis Milling, Member of the National Defence Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U392	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee initiated a draft s. a on 20 April, by consensus. The first reading of the draft was completed on 10 May. The deadline for submitting amendments, which was 15 May at 10.30 a.m., did not propose any amendments to the draft. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading at its meeting on 15 May, where it examined the opinion of the Government of the Republic on the draft. The Government of the Republic discussed the draft at its meeting on 3 May and decided to support it in principle. The Government of the Republic also recommended in the draft the use of the general term 'Strategic Development Document on National Defence' and the waiver of the requirement that the Strategic Development Document on National Defence contains state secrets. Indeed, § 7 (1) of the National Defence Act refers to strategic development documents for national defence, but this provision indicates that they are drafted, implemented and amended on the basis of the procedures for drawing up, implementing and amending strategic development documents laid down in the State Budget Act and the legislation given on the basis thereof. According to § 19 of the State Budget Act, strategic development documents are the fundamentals of politics, the development plan of the field, the development plan of the government area and the programme. Pursuant to § 20 (2) of the State Budget Act, the development plan in the field of national defence will also be submitted to the Riigikogu for discussion before being approved by the Government of the Republic. The draft law 438 sets out the specificity of the process of handling the development plan in the field of national defence, which contains only state secrets and which is exposed to NATO classified external information. The aim of the National Defence Committee is not to extend the draft and to impose an obligation on the Prime Minister to provide the National Defence Committee with other national defence development documents for its opinion, which is the development plan and programme of the government area approved by the Minister. The relevant national defence strategic development documents, not all of which contain state secrets, could be consulted by the National Defence Committee in the framework of parliamentary scrutiny or at the initiative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The latter act should not be amended to the law. Procedure: At its meeting on 15 May, the National Defence Committee approved by consensus the text of the second reading and the explanatory memorandum and decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu to stop the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U393	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Is there a wish to open negotiations? That's not what you want either. Thanks to the waitress! No amendments to the draft 438 were proposed. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 438. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U394	The next item is the first reading of Draft Act 459 on Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like you to present a speech chair to Secretary of Finance, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U395	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I will give an overview of the draft law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which is number 459. We are taking over the fourth anti-money laundering directive, which was adopted in May 2015. The new directive was developed because the Financial Action Task Force, an international organisation setting standards for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, introduced new rules in 2012. Estonia has so far been internationally active and, according to estimates, a good anti-money laundering agent. However, we have not escaped the interest of criminals to move black money this way either. In 2016, the Supreme Court was finally convicted of Estonia's first terrorist funders, who supported ISIS with their actions. The issue is therefore topical and we have an international obligation to do our utmost to prevent these activities. The draft provides for a number of instruments for this purpose. First, the obligation to apply so-called due diligence measures and the principle of 'know your client' remain in force. In the new law, the application of due diligence measures has been made more flexible in order to allow for better account to be taken of the different business profiles and the potential risks they pose. Another important change is the introduction of a risk-based approach to a new level. The risk will be assessed proactively, the risk analysis must be drawn up by both the State and the other obliged entities referred to in that law. The aim is greater flexibility and attention to where it is most needed. Each undertaking can best understand its own risks; the national risk assessment provides the right direction and references to which attention should be paid, if necessary. The third and most relevant change is the institution of the real beneficiaries and, more generally, the increase in transparency in the ownership structures of legal entities. International scandals such as Panamanian paperwork and a more coordinated fight against tax evasion have raised the need to make information about the real beneficiaries more accessible, both at European and G20 level and at OECD level. For this purpose, a system of queries concerning the actual beneficiaries will be established at the Estonian business register. This information will be public, otherwise the beneficiaries associated with legal entities with complex ownership structures would be in the preferred situation compared to the ordinary owners for whom the information is publicly available. The technical solution is ready on 1 December 2017 and by the beginning of February all legal entities should publish their actual beneficiaries in the commercial register. The registrar shall send out notification notes and reminders so that everyone is informed of this requirement in good time. I know that it is also interesting what happens to entrepreneurs who do not fulfil this obligation. The aim of the State is not to rush to impose or fine penalties on this issue. This is a global initiative with a clear objective, but the journey has only just been marked off the map. For example, in a few years' time, the European Commission intends to connect the registers of the beneficial owners through a common platform so that a request from one Member State will also indicate the beneficiary of a legal person in the register of another Member State. For this reason, we have foreseen in the draft that the penalty for a specific infringement should not enter into force until 2019. Information on the actual beneficiaries will make the business environment more transparent. Only subjects are legally obliged to check the actual beneficiaries, but the records of the actual beneficiaries are likely to be used in other areas where background checks are carried out. This means, above all, changing practice, but the Ministry of Finance will finally carry out an analysis of whether it is necessary to amend legislation in this regard. As a last important change, I would like to emphasise the deepening of international cooperation between supervisors and FIUs, the necessity of which has been highlighted, as has the ability to respond quickly, particularly due to terrorist attacks in recent times in the capitals of the European Union. Estonian laws have been criticised from this point of view because the penalty rates in our laws are low compared to those in other countries. The draft law raises the threshold for criminal penalties for legal persons up to EUR 400000. Like other financial sector legislation, enforcement rates are increased. In order to enforce the same obligation, a maximum of EUR 5 million may be imposed; in the case of a legal person, it may amount to up to 10% of the total annual turnover of the legal person. The law enters into force in general, but obliged persons have one year to comply with the new requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U396	You have questions too. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U397	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Could you please clarify a little chapter 10 on liability for due diligence, risk assessment and procedural violations of money laundering and terrorist financing, including the amount of fines. Why are these fines exactly like this? Could they be even bigger?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U398	Thank you. This issue has been discussed before. The sanction rates for misdemeanours laid down in the Act must be established in accordance with the general part of the Penal Code and the general part of the Code. Since 2015, the Penal Code provides for a financial penalty of EUR 100000 to EUR 400000 for misdemeanour; we have now put it to the maximum. If we want to change this in the future, I know that at the end of last year, the Ministry of Justice sent out a plan of development aimed primarily at raising the fines for misdemeanour in the financial sector, it is a separate issue. We've already reached the maximum threshold.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U399	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U400	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I ask a question that I may have asked you at an inquiry when it came to the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. How much have you involved the fintech sector in developing this bill? The annual conference of the Financial Supervision Authority, which you yourself have been opening, has said a lot about perhaps tending to regulate the traditional banking or financial sector and perhaps paying little attention to the whole fintech sector. I am asking about this lack of attention precisely in order to ask for your view on how it would be possible to allow these services to enter the market more easily in the same way, in order to have fewer restrictions, but on the other hand, to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing under these few restrictions. Such a beak stuck to the tail open the situation. Have you also involved the Financial Supervision Authority and the sector itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U401	Thank you, that's a good question! We really have. As you said, it is precisely so that the more flexible you go with regard to due diligence, the more opportunities for abuse become. They've really been trying to find that balance. Today, we can say that our new technological opportunities give us the necessary flexibility. If, for example, personal identification was very rigid in the past, the person now does not have to come on site because of technological possibilities. All parties are always in the business. It serves this purpose, on the one hand, to keep the risks under control and, on the other, to give our own fintech companies the opportunity to develop.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U402	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U403	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Compared to the other countries of the European Union, we still have very gentle penalties for misdemeanour provided for in this draft. But what I ask is this: why is it that the penalties for violating the rules of the securities market are much stricter than those for money laundering? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U404	When I answered one of the previous questions, I touched on this subject to some extent, but then I will repeat a few thoughts. According to the general part of the Penal Code, we use the general part of the Penal Code as a basis for sanction rates, up to 2015, the maximum penalty was EUR 32000. As of 2015, the Penal Code provides for a rate of EUR 100000 to a legal person of EUR 400000. So now we have set a maximum of EUR 400000. But, as I mentioned, in the picture of the financial sector as a whole, it is planned to revise the fine rates in the future. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Justice sent out an intention to develop it. If this intention to develop becomes a real law at some point, we will have a window of opportunity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U405	Thank you, Minister. No further questions for you right now. The Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U406	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 5 May inclusive. The Government of the Republic was represented by the Minister of Finance, Mr Sester. He introduced the substance of the bill exactly as he just did here. After that, there was a brief debate. Three questions were asked. Firstly, there was interest in the extent to which the new law reflects the Euro Directive and how much our own creations are there. The answer was that it is largely based on the Euro Directive, but also on our specific features. Indeed, if the new law enters into force, the law will apply to non-profit organisations if they are paid or paid in cash themselves more than EUR 5000. In the current law, this amount is EUR 15000. The FIU shall have the right to suspend the transaction or to restrict the disposal of the asset, where appropriate. Initially, the limit is set for up to 30 days, but the office has the right to extend it by 60 days, or 90 days in total. In particularly serious cases, the procedure may be extended for up to one year, but not more. The Directive establishes a register of actual beneficiaries. This is information on the beneficial owners of companies published in the Commercial Register Information System. Estonia makes it to the Registries and Information Systems Centre, because the business register is already a functioning information system, where an additional service should be created. The second question was whether this law will guarantee us more effective and active international cooperation. The single answer was: yes, that's right. The question was also about the penalty rate: the financial penalty imposed on a legal person will be EUR 400000 instead of EUR 32000. They asked whether this was a European standard, and the answer was that this was the maximum that our legal space would allow. The Commission adopted procedural decisions, all by consensus. The chairman of the committee was appointed rapporteur. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the draft hall be brought to an end on 17 May and that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for amendments be 31 May at 5.15 p.m. I would also like to add that, although we have not yet completed the first reading, the Commission has already received a letter from an interested organisation, which raises some questions about the penalty rates and the length of these periods. I think there are quite interesting questions. We have something to discuss between the first reading and the second reading. This is AS TavexWise, who sent this letter, and we will forward it to the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U407	The round of questions will be opened by Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U408	Honourable waitress! I ask you, as chairman of the committee, the same question as I asked the Minister of Finance. This concerns financial technology, or fintech. What kind of involvement do you have planned between the first reading and the second reading? I looked from this coordination table that FinanceEstonia, which represents this sector, has put forward quite a number of proposals. Some of them are accounted for, some are not. Are you planning to create a circle of engagement between the two readings in the Commission, where, in addition to the Ministry and TavexWise, as you have already mentioned, other market participants are also invited to talk about their visions of new banking and a new financial world?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U409	Thank you for your question. The custom is that when someone makes a proposal, first and foremost, we ask for the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. If there is something to talk about and perhaps to argue about, those who have initiated the subject will be invited. If such a need arises, of course, the Commission will decide on it, then we will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U410	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U411	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Chairman of the Commission! The Committee on Monetary Affairs has now been quite busy, unable to read all the letters. If you don't mind, would you briefly mark what the problems that were addressed to us in this particular letter are all about?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U412	There is an interest in such a question. TavexWise, as you can read in this letter, thinks that this period of up to one year is too long. Three, four, or a little more months in the past. There are other questions. We have EUR 15000, EUR 10000, EUR 1000, EUR 32000 in different places in the law. They are interested in the logic behind the determination of these rates. I understand that the explanation in the explanatory memorandum did not satisfy them. But this letter is available in EMS. It only came last night, and there was nothing we could do about it. But between two readings, I'm sure we'll deal with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U413	Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. There are no requests to speak. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 459. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 459 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U414	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act 454 on simplified taxation of business income initiated by the Government of the Republic. To present the speech chair, Minister of Finance Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U415	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I give an overview of the draft law on simplified taxation of business income, which bears number 454. In the future, the easiest way to start and do business is to open an entrepreneurial account. That's what you could call it in Estonian. In order to facilitate micro-business, the draft aims to introduce a special tax regime under which tax liability is to be met in a simplified and low uniform rate of taxation. This special scheme is suitable for anyone who sells goods or provides services up to EUR 25000 per year. The taxpayer must open an entrepreneur's account at the bank that receives its income. Of the amounts received, the bank will automatically book 20% to cover the tax liability and pay it to the tax authorities in the following month. Thus, 80 cents will remain in the hands of each of the euro-earned entrepreneurs. Payment of business income tax will be subject to the payment of income tax, social tax and compulsory funded pension. A small enterprise using an entrepreneur account does not need to submit any reports or spend time on accounting. Therefore, operating through an entrepreneur account has been made as convenient as possible. The payment of business income tax also provides the recipient with social guarantees. This ensures, if there is sufficient income, health insurance for the period of operation and future pension, and increases the cash benefits of the company in the form of parental benefit or temporary incapacity benefit. The amount of benefits depends on the amount of the social security contribution paid. Medical insurance is required to receive at least 1300 euros per month in an entrepreneur's account. Bureaucracy has been minimised in the case of an entrepreneurial account. The taxpayer shall not be obliged to keep accounts or to submit tax returns or other accounts. Everything is automatically done through an entrepreneur account, which automatically collects the tax. If the draft is approved, business accounts can be opened as early as 1 January 2018. The creation of a simplified way of dealing with this kind of business offers opportunities to earn additional income from business to those for whom self-employed or company-based activities have seemed too complex or impractical due to the small size of the business. For those who currently provide services on a small scale, an entrepreneurial account will provide an easier opportunity to be an honest taxpayer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U416	You have questions too. Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U417	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We take the theoretical option that the entrepreneur recommends that his employees quit their jobs and start operating through the same business account. Why don't you give us a little enlightenment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U418	We have also made sure that the same thing that happened in Latvia does not happen. What happened in Latvia was that they wanted to develop entrepreneurship, but the optimization of taxes started to take place, which you referred to in your question. When asked whether it was possible to provide a service to a legal person, it was assumed at the very beginning that this possibility could not arise. This is precisely in view of the example of Latvia. We also discussed with various tax consultants, including Lasse Lehise, the head of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, who paid attention to this. He said it would be reasonable to give them this opportunity and suggested a possible solution, which was also mentioned here. Thus, in the future it will also be possible to provide a service to a legal person and to prevent employees from becoming entrepreneurs if they are not in fact undertakings, the legal persons and self-employed persons will be obliged to pay income tax on the fee paid. This is Paragraph 51 (2) (1) of the Income Tax Act. As a result, they will have to pay an additional 20%. The recipient pays the holder of the business account but pays an additional 20% and as a result the tax burden for the labour force and the business account is completely the same and there is no incentive to direct its employees to provide the service through the business account. That's what we're gonna do nicely to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U419	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U420	Thank you. Good minister! I want to ask you about the rates and the amount that has been put into the bill. Where does EUR 25000 come from? Why is it $25,000, not $40,000 or some other amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U421	Thank you. I think that's a very good question. There were also several discussions on this subject. The question is who and to what extent we want to involve. EUR 25000 is just over EUR 2000 per month. It would be a classic micro-business, not even a small business service. And after the discussions, it remained EUR 25000. I don't think it would be right for this money to get a lot bigger at some point. As you know, the VAT obligation already arises at EUR 40000, so you have to sell your service already at VAT. There were several discussions on this subject. There was also the view that perhaps this border should be brought down, just to take down the risks that the previous speaker had in mind when he spoke about providing services to legal persons. However, in summary, it was found that about EUR 2 000 per month could be the amount for which we can say that holding an entrepreneur account would be reasonable, practical and constructive. The funds will also be received on the business account after the full amount of 25000 euros, but then not 20% will be withheld from the entrepreneur account holder, but 40% will be withheld. He loses the idea of transferring to that account or paying more than EUR 25000 in cash.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U422	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U423	Respectable waitress! Honourable President! You referred to Lasse Lehise from the Estonian Taxpayers' Association. A letter from the taxpayer's association has also been received in which it will look more closely at all the proposed tax changes and, however, criticise this new draft. It points out that there is no measure to prevent public authorities, local authorities and legal persons from formalising a service contract with a natural person. He gives quite a graphic and distinctive example. I quote: 'For example, a member of the Riigikogu may hire a domestic servant, a driver or an assistant and pay a fee for the cost benefit, which would ultimately be taxed at 20% tax only, then register in the register of employees of the service provider and pay all labour taxes. ' Please, would you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U424	The draft has not been drawn up on the basis of who will pay and for what and which service will be provided. Our aim has been to create a situation where it is possible to offer or sell our services and to do so as conveniently as possible, with as little red tape as possible and with the lowest possible tax rate. I think that is precisely what this particular draft is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U425	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U426	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hope, however, that this is not the way to use the cost compensation. Maris Lauri has already asked where this EUR 25000 limit comes from, could this amount not be higher. Here's what I'm asking. In your presentation, you said that health insurance is conditional on the receipt of at least 1300 euros per month on an entrepreneur's account. Why $1,300? And is that some kind of average, or is that the minimum every month? What happens if 1,100 euros are received in one month and 1,500 euros in the other month?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U427	Thank you, that is a very good question, and it is certainly worth talking about. In Estonia, health insurance is based on the principle of solidarity, and this EUR 1300 comes from it. It should be taken into account that no person should have the advantage of receiving health insurance on the basis of the income they receive. We have to take into account that the holder of an entrepreneur account has a reduced tax rate: each of its euro is taxed only at 20%, and that 20% is divided into three: income tax, social tax and savings pension. It is a person who is not engaged in anything else, he does not have any basic work, so that this micro-business is like a side job, and because he is subject to a reduced tax rate, we must be guided by the fact that insurance cover is always based on solidarity. A certain calculation has shown that, in the case of EUR 1300, it contributes jointly and severally to the health insurance fund with regard to its social tax. The second part of the question was whether the sum would sum up and pass from one month to the next. Nothing changes in that sense. Just as it is now, it will be in the future. The income required to receive health insurance is calculated on a calendar basis. It is the same now, and it will continue in the future, with no change coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U428	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U429	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The analysis of the impact of the explanatory memorandum shows nicely the possible behaviour of self-employed workers, as well as the potential damage they may suffer. However, the other half of the information work has been left unanswered: who informs the self-employed that opening this account might be rather detrimental to them because of the possible reduction of these social protection benefits?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U430	Thank you. If you look at the impact analysis, you will see that self-employed workers do not suffer, but rather benefit. The damage actually happens to the state budget. As strange as it may seem, as a result of this law, we expect 1 million minus for the state budget in the first stage. Not a plus! In principle, on the one hand, there is, of course, a picture of people who currently do not declare their daily activities at all. This addition will certainly have a positive impact on the state budget. But on the other hand, what you just asked about will also work. Self-employed, self-employed, are pragmatic people; they calculate their daily costs well. And it is good for them to open an entrepreneur's account that guarantees them a reduced tax rate of 20% and that they do not have to squabble with bureaucracy at all, and no one will have to report any reports to either the business register, the tax office, Statistics Estonia or Eesti Pank. But on the other hand, they can't record their expenses in the report. This is certainly also an important factor. So, of course, the self-employed person will see which one is more useful to him. If it has a very cost-intensive production, it is most likely that it will not be suitable for the completion of the business account. The business account logic is that it gives one additional value to the option. Now this issue of informing the parties. Of course, if the bill ever passes the third reading and the law is confirmed by the President, then general information must be given. At the same time, I think that people who intend to become entrepreneurs or are already acting as self-employed persons will be very careful to see what is good for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U431	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U432	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have put together quite an interesting agenda in cooperation with the Riigikogu Board. One way or another, we have a black Wednesday: six new taxes have been brought here before us at your ministry. On the other hand, you offer a rather innovative solution for which I would like to congratulate you. I very sincerely congratulate you on this particular step. In my opinion, this limit could have been the same as the VAT liability limit, i.e. EUR 40000. Our tax environment and regulatory environment would then be easier. How many of these different models, systems and limits do we create? And when you look at other drafts, it seems that a simple tax environment is nothing close to your heart. What I am asking, however, is why should self-employment not be abolished at all or combined with the two? Right now, as you yourself described, one has pros and the other has cons. Why don't we put these things together?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U433	Thank you for a good question. I like this debate, this constructive debate! Like I said, it's a new opportunity. Self-employed persons remain able to register, limited liability companies, private limited liability companies and public limited liability companies, not to mention the various other partnerships where the limit already applies to all your assets. This is a new opportunity. When we think about whether to liquidate the self-employed status at all, I don't think that's a good idea. There are currently tens of thousands of people who have registered as self-employed, who do not want to have a public limited company or a private limited company who want to use self-employed status as one that gives them the opportunity to pay attention, give them the opportunity! just take all costs into account in the report and also receive all the social guarantees it entails. That is how they want to act in the area in which they operate. Now, if we were to replace one with the other, there would be a situation where a person should start thinking: uh, if I wanted to write down the costs, then I should set up a limited liability company. We'd rather just give one more chance without taking anything away from anyone. I think it's definitely positive looking at it this way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U434	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U435	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Just a moment ago, we received an answer to a question that had not been answered in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Here is an example of how the tax burden will develop if the costs of this "service provider" are 70% compared to revenues. This shows that business account users still face a much higher tax burden than self-employed persons, as the entrepreneur account user cannot deduct costs. I don't think even lawn mowers pay off that account. If you take fuel consumption, mower consumption, spare parts, transport costs and advertising costs, the costs are more than 50% compared to the revenues and this solution does not pay off. I am asking, in the interests of history, that in a year's time we can compare: how much do you predict about these babysitters and domestic workers who could use this form of entrepreneurship? How many could there be if this law came into force?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U436	Look how interesting: two completely different views are presented in the introduction to the question from the same party! There's nothing weird about that, of course. People have different opinions, even when they are in one party. When Kalle Palling said that he recognised the words and felt that this was a constructive step forward, your introduction was rather sceptical and perhaps even a proposal not to stop reading the first time today. I understand you've made it clear that this is a relatively pointless bill. I don't agree with you. I'm saying it's a sensible thing, and I'm sure people will use it. I'm absolutely sure of it. I think that the choice will be done exactly as you actually formulated in the final part of your question. A person makes a decision based on how much he or she costs. And that's very right. If its costs are 70% compared to the revenue, as you have pointed out, it is unlikely that it would make sense to open an entrepreneurial account. Very right for what? Of course, there is no point. Let me give you an example. We're not just talking about a babysitter or a lawnmower. Let's take handy action, for example, glove makers. Your cost is the yarn, and the main value comes through your work. In such cases, if the cost is marginal and you later sell those gloves and hands, it is reasonable to open an entrepreneurial account. The cost level is low. This is one example. You also asked how many people could be, who would make this possible change. We have pointed out in the impact analysis that we are seeing this, as you yourself rightly marked, that self-employed people are starting to consider the proportion of their costs. We have looked at the number of self-employed people who could make changes to their business structure. Based on 2015 data, it can be assumed that 4270 self-employed persons could be transferred to an entrepreneurial account in the current situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U437	Andres Ammas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U438	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I'll start with your comment on the answer. You know, if there were any representatives of the IRL or of the Social Democrats in the Chamber, there could be nearly 29 differences of opinion calculated, but they just don't sound in this Chamber for some reason. But seriously, I will continue with Mr Sõerdi's question. This example, which left us here half an hour ago, suggests that if the self-employed has 10% of the income, it is worth opening an entrepreneur's account, if for example 70%, it is not worthwhile. So where's the balance line, 50% or somewhere else? Have you calculated?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U439	If you want to see an accurate cost-benefit analysis, I'll e-mail it to you later. From there you can see the exact percentages, from where it is more useful not to have an entrepreneurial account, but to be an example of a self-employed person. I promise you I'll send you away for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U440	Minister, thank you. There are no more questions, but don't go far, we have a lot to do. I would like to ask the representative of the lead committee in the chair, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U441	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 5 May this year. The Minister presented the draft to us in the same detail as today, and after that there was a debate. I wanted to start with this question, to which he did not answer, but I understood at the moment, on the last two questions, that these tables are in everyone's hands and there is no point in asking. Strangely, the questions put by the Commission and the questions put in this Chamber did not coincide at all. That's why I need to introduce you to the entire protocol. It was asked whether this bill motivated enough self-employed persons to open an entrepreneurial account. The answer was that this is not a goal. The self-employed person has already identified himself as an entrepreneur. Our aim is to bring to the picture new entrepreneurs who, for whatever reason, do not pay the tax or have not defined themselves as entrepreneurs. The self-employed is already pragmatic, can calculate pros and cons. Minus is that you can't report the costs on this account. But a clear plus is zero bureaucracy and a tax rate of 20%. It can be expected that it will be beneficial for those who work with their hands and brains, i.e. those with low cost of production. Can't you be a self-employed person and a user of an entrepreneur account at the same time? Single answer: not allowed. What does a person win when the monthly income reaches 1300? He or she wins social security benefits: he or she will be entitled to sickness insurance. Getting medical cover requires earning a monthly income of at least EUR 1300 per business account if the state budget sets the minimum monthly salary for 2018 at EUR 470 with a social tax contribution of EUR 61 and 10 cents. What should motivate, for example, the two groups referred to in the explanatory memorandum to open an entrepreneurial account for babysitters, domestic workers? What's the main motivator? This hope is based on two things, the answer was a much lower tax rate and zero bureaucracy. What mechanism is there to prevent tax fraud? For example, in the interests of social guarantees, monthly incomes of EUR 1300 may be shown and amounts exceeding this amount will be accepted in an envelope. The same question was in the hall. The answer was that the main aim was to provide new opportunities, not to create control mechanisms. Can a member of the Management Board of OÜ be the owner of an entrepreneur account? Yeah, it could be. There was also a question about banks. The LHV Bank and the Tax Administration have set up their own platform for this: are other banks joining? SEB is interested, other banks are currently more passive. How does the IRS know that a person opens an account? The bank transmits the data, everything happens automatically, the person does not need to take any initiative. Such procedural decisions were taken: to propose to the management board of the Riigikogu to send a draft law to the hall by today, 17 May and to conclude the first reading. (meeting of 8), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by 0 votes to 1 with 1 abstention. The chairman of the committee was appointed as co-rapporteur. The deadline for amendments could be 31 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U442	Thank you, dear waitress. No questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U443	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Finance! Good ambassadors! The Free Party Group welcomes the law on simplified taxation of business income. The more flexible our labour market is, the more we can be sure that people will find more opportunities, the clearer, the better our entire tax life will be, and the more society will take advantage of people's entrepreneurial spirit. We very much hope that the risks that were pointed out by Lasse Lehis, the representative of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, who had in mind optimization of taxes, will not materialise when the bill becomes a law. We can never rule this out, but in this fear, there should certainly not be any new supervisory body that will be in control, nor will anyone optimize these taxes. In short, this bill has a very strong positive side to be welcomed. But there are also some questions that need to be considered and that can probably be dealt with between the first and second readings. One of these questions really concerns the self-employed, for whom I have a concern, so that they can still be informed about their decision-making and their choice. Indeed, if the costs are pretty high, the self-employed person will probably benefit from remaining self-employed. But those with lower costs will probably now be able to develop entrepreneurship with little or almost no red tape. Information will certainly be a very important issue for this business account. We must not act in such a way as to adopt the law, but people will not be properly informed about it. What more would I like to add? Small business is necessary for Estonia for several reasons. Unfortunately, we have little space and little resources for big business. On the other hand, small business is precisely the form that gives a person work and bread, as well as the freedom of creation, the right to do exactly what he wants, applying the skills and knowledge he has acquired. And also: I would like to see a bolder, larger and broader approach to supporting Estonian small business. This is certainly one way of reviving and supporting our rural area, avoiding peripheralisation and thus contributing to the development of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U444	There are no more requests to speak, but the Minister has the right to make a summary statement. Please, Minister Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U445	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! In this draft, on the one hand, the heart rejoices and, on the other hand, it worries. Rejoices because we are actually doing a big thing today, offering a completely new form of entrepreneurship. Certainly the most important moment will come when this law is passed in mid-June, but I think we are already witnessing a nice moment today. I would like to thank the Free Party for its support for this draft. I have a problem with this subject that I said my heart was worried about. I'm worried that no other party in this hall took the trouble to say what the Free Party just said. We're in a very interesting situation today. We are really in the process of creating a completely new form of enterprise, and only one group is working to pay attention to this in a positive way. I mean how many people say they are in favour of businesses and want to support businesses, but they are often just words. But once again, we are now setting up an entrepreneurial account with zero bureaucracy. It has been asked whether it is really possible for someone you still have to report. In this case, I say, really, to no one. All you have to do is report in your own plaid notebook. You do not need to submit any reporting forms to anyone every month. And what is certainly important is: the tax rate is almost twice as low, or 20%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U446	About Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U447	Mr President! What paragraph in our Rules of Procedure allows the Minister's moral sermon to be held in Parliament? What's the paragraph?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U448	It is very difficult to give Minister Sester's speech as a sermon, but this paragraph, which allows it, is 71. At the end of the discussion of the members of the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice and the member of the Government of the Republic have the right to speak. However, the president felt that the discussion was far from complete. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 454. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 454 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U449	The tenth item is the first reading of the Bill 460 on Amendment to the Packaging Excise Act, the Packaging Act and the Environmental Charges Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U450	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Members, I present to you the draft law amending the Package Tax Act, the Packaging Act and the Environmental Charges Act, which bears the number 460. The amendment to the Packaging Excise Act is due to a number of factors, the most important of which is that packages are placed on the market in very large quantities in Estonia and that data relating to packaging are unreliable. In Estonia, 170 kg of packaging per capita is consumed in the middle of the year. In this respect, we are sixth in Europe, which means that we consume significantly more than we would expect in comparison with our purchasing power and other consumption figures. The quantities of packaging are on an annual growth trend, although the population is decreasing. The current Packaging Excise Act does not affect the loss of packaging mass consumed in Estonia, but regulates the obligation to re-use packaging. The law is not about reasons, it is about consequences. In addition, there are shortcomings in the current regulation as regards the reporting of the placing on the market of packaging and the correct recording of packaging waste. The National Audit Office has also referred to the problem in 2010 in the report 'Performance of collection and recovery of packaging waste'. Due to these problems, the amendment of the Packaging Excise Act was already introduced into the Programme of Action of the Government of the Republic in 2015. The legal changes are based on the study of the University of Tartu's Centre for Social Science Applied Research and the Stockholm Environmental Institute Tallinn Centre'Package taxation analysis based on the assessment of the life cycle of packaging'. The study highlights the shortcomings of the current system and makes recommendations for changes to the system. All of this has been largely taken into account in the draft. The bill amends the procedure for the taxation of excise duties on packaging as follows: The current system for regulating the re-use of packaging remains dependent on the collection and recovery of packaging waste. Exemptions from excise duty shall also remain in force if the packages have been re-used within the prescribed targets. The rates of excise duty are based on the indicative rates indicated in the study, which are linked to the environmental burden of packaging. The new rates are designed to reduce the excise duty of 75% on wood and 33% on paper. The metal excise duty does not change, while the rates of 20% plastic and 33% glass packaging increase. I will also mention the new rates of excise duty if the targets for the recycling of packaging are not reached: EUR 3 per kilogram of plastic, EUR 2,5 per kilogram of metal, EUR 0.8 per kilogram of glass, EUR 0.8 per kilogram of paper and cardboard, EUR 0.8 per kilogram of wood and EUR 0.3 per kilogram of wood. Unlike the current law, the draft also regulates the placing on the market of packaging. This is aimed at reducing packaging quantities and using packages of more environmentally friendly materials. According to the draft, goods packages placed on the market in Estonia and acquired and imported from another Member State are taxed on their placing on the market. The rates of excise duty for the placing on the market of packaging are ten times lower than the rates of non-compliance with the targets for the re-use of packaging. However, the excise duty on the placing on the market of packaging is not linked to compliance with the obligation to re-use packaging and therefore the tax cannot be avoided by applying the recovery of packaging waste. Ecolabelled products and their packaging shall be exempt from excise duty applicable to placing on the market. Re-use packages shall be taxed for the first time on their placing on the market. The excise duty paid for the transport packaging shall be refunded if the packaging is removed from Estonia during the year. The draft also amends the procedure for providing information on the placing of packaging on the market. All packaging companies will start to submit data on packaging placed on the market to the packaging register managed by the Environmental Agency on a quarterly basis. Both the Tax and Customs Board and recycling organisations receive data from there. The requirements for reporting re-use and reporting to the packaging register are unchanged. In order to facilitate the declaration, the exchange of data between the packaging register and the e-Tax Board will take place via the X-Road. There are possibilities for the company not to submit a separate declaration of excise duties on packaging to the Tax and Customs Board, but for the tax authorities to receive information from the Environmental Agency's packaging register, which establishes a pre-filled excise declaration. It will be easier to pay taxes. The law will enter into force on 1 January 2018, if Parliament supports it, and will receive an amount of EUR 15 million. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U451	There are many questions for the rapporteur. Andres Herkel, first, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U452	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In fact, it should be dealt with in conjunction with the state budget, then there would be an answer to the fundamental question of the extent to which you want to comply with this bill by the revenue of the state budget. We have repeatedly denied here how much is behind the drafts simply a desire to bring money to the state budget and how many noble goals. The taxpayers' association mentioned in the debate on the previous draft has expressed doubts as to whether additional taxation of packaging will significantly reduce the number of packages. I ask you this: where exactly are these sectors, where such overpacking is taking place and what do you want to have an impact on? And is there any way to measure it afterwards to assess that there has been a positive impact?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U453	Thank you. It has been said that some sectors have fewer packaging, or let us say that it is more appropriate, and there is clear overpackaging in some sectors. If you ask what sectors these are, then one is the cosmetics and the other is the pharmaceutical industry. A couple of examples like that. But you started by saying that it would be good to keep the national budgets and the state budget strategy in the picture when dealing with draft laws. I also think there's no reason to throw it out of the picture. The fiscal objective is certainly there for the amendment of the Packaging Act, which is dealt with by the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of the Environment. One objective is clearly to reduce packaging, and the other objective is fiscal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U454	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U455	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You mentioned medicines and cosmetic products in response to the previous question. It is in the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries that there are huge companies with a global reach. The Estonian market is marginal for them. Please explain how our companies can influence large manufacturers of medical and cosmetic products to change these packages for a very small market in Estonia. How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U456	You know, there's nothing unique about packaging taxation. We are not doing rocket science here at the moment, Estonia is not the first country to regulate packaging in any way. Not at all! There are many countries where the attention is paid to packaging, to a greater extent than Estonia does. Of course, it is possible that your actions will not affect the activities of one producer or another because you are simply too small a market. This is particularly true of foreign producers. But as we approach on a value-based basis, our aim is primarily to reduce the quantity of packaging on the Estonian market and so this law should fulfil its purpose in the big picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U457	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U458	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. After a thorough examination of the draft and the explanatory memorandum, I was surprised to understand that the law had little effect on the consumer. In other words, excise duty on packaging should not lead to a significant increase in household costs, directed at the consumer. If this does not affect consumption patterns, purchasing decisions, does not motivate nature to use sustainable materials, what is the point of this law, apart from the fact that we want to fill the state budget in the order of 15 to 18 million euros a year?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U459	True, if we take EUR 15 million and divide it by the number of inhabitants, we will know what the potential impact on one person or another is. If we also examine the cost of products, we will discover an even smaller number, i.e. the impact on one product or another, given the proportion of packaging price in the price of a particular product. I would like to give you an example: one 20 kg euro base would increase the cost of 60 euro cents to the company under the new law. This is one of the European Union's vessels! But if you sum up the cost, if you have more than one of these 60 cents of euro pallets, then the question arises what one or the other company decides to do to reduce the number of packages sent to the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U460	Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U461	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There is a well known need for rather complex IT software development to collect the taxes proposed in the draft. That is what the Tax and Customs Board is supposedly planning enough money for. However, there may not be so many large strategic partners in Estonia who will be able to do so by the deadline for its development. The law is scheduled to enter into force on 1 January next year. Will these developments be completed, Minister, and will the expected revenue make up for these expenses? Perhaps you can tell me how much money will be allocated to the Tax and Customs Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U462	The answer is yes, to put it briefly. Speaking further, true story, the Tax and Customs Board can, of course, finally start IT developments once the law has been passed. As you know, the law does not normally leave Parliament the same way as it came to Parliament. There are always some changes, and it is normal and logical for the process to achieve better results as a result of discussions. I'll see what this information technology costs later, I'll send it to you separately. But believe me, IT development is not proportional to the fiscal, financial side. These costs are not proportionate to the fiscal impact of the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U463	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U464	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! I understand that the discussion has revealed problems, that not all businesses have declared themselves as taxpayers and that the data of the ministry and companies are very contradictory. Businesses are concerned that not everyone is treated equally because not everyone has declared themselves. Please tell me, how do you intend to eliminate this injustice and bring the truth to the ground? How many companies are there who produce unnecessary packaging? How to increase control and reduce this unequal competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U465	That's a very good question! I might specify that taxpayers are everything, but some of them are packaging companies, some are not packaging companies. This issue has been up before. There are currently around 4500 packaging companies in Estonia. If you ask what is the basis for this definition at all or when the company becomes a packaging company, it becomes a packaging company when it places on the market either 100 kilos of plastic or 200 kilos of other excise material per year. If it exceeds these criteria, its status shall be that of a packaging company. Before I named the number 4500. This has also been discussed and the Ministry of the Environment and recycling organisations have reviewed all data and confirmed that 90% of packaging companies have joined recycling organisations. Those who do not exceed 100 kg of plastic or 200 kg of other excise goods are not packaging companies, but 90% of the packaging companies have joined. The second part of your question was what steps are being taken to detect operators who should actually be packaging operators, but are not. We have always said that non-payment of taxes must not be a competitive advantage in operating in the market; nobody pays. The Tax and Customs Board carries out various risk analyses to achieve the inclusion of 10% of businesses in the system.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U466	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U467	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! A little sad are you today...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U468	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U469	I don't know what this is about, but in any case I understand that it is difficult for the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica to introduce six new taxes and to screw up the Estonian business environment. However, I will look at the draft explanatory memorandum and read here that until now, the state budget has received excise duties on packaging in the order of EUR 250000. Now you are hoping to get 15 to 18 million, while I heard before my fellow Members' questions that the law does not seem to have a very large impact on businesses and individuals. How do you justify all this and explain it to Estonian entrepreneurs, especially those who handle packaging? You have only one objective, it is a fiscal objective, the environmental impact is secondary. What's your message to the entrepreneur who's watching you today, listening, watching our transfer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U470	Thank you. You see, you can see that the party chairman came to the hall and started asking. So far, everything was constructive and good, but now, in the introduction, the words "devil" and "fuck up." The questions have been preceded by assessments. I would start with the fact that, no, I am not saddened, I am very happy today, because a little while ago, when you were not in the Chamber, we finished the first reading of the draft concerning the business account. This is a completely new form of enterprise and I hope that you will adopt this law by common agreement. No, I have no reason to be sad. You also talked about our goals. A fiscally goal is one goal, but it is not the first. I note here that it cannot be said that there is no fiscal objective, but it is certainly just one of the objectives. The main objective is to reduce the placing on the market of packaging. The second objective is to influence manufacturers to increasingly use environmentally friendly materials. If you notice, the levels of excise duty are different. There is a level that is related to plastics, and a level that is related to wood. The third objective is to improve the quality of data. I have already stated that in the future, the register will be informed and recycling organisations, as well as the Tax and Customs Board, will take this information from there. And it is really only the third objective that we have a fiscal objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U471	Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U472	Thank you. Good Minister, I have a question that relates to exports and imports. As I understand it, every time a commodity comes in that's in a package, it's about to get a clap of excise duty. Very many companies also use different types of packaging or containers to deliver goods. I understand the way it is, if they go back to Latvia once, when they come in again, they'll pay for it. Doesn't that seem unfair? Or have I misunderstood?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U473	Thank you. I'll tell you a little bit about it. It is true that when we talk about tax exemptions and talk about the one-time and multiplication of packaging, packaging with an eco-label will be exempt. You will only get an eco-label if you also have an eco-enrichment. You will not be able to get an ecolabel if you have an eco label, but the cover is not eco. They are exempt at all. If the packaging is reusable, we do not take it out, but it is reusable here in Estonia, it will be taxed only on the first time it is brought to the market. In the case of transport packaging, the excise duty shall be refunded after the transport package has left Estonia during the year. So in the case of transport packaging, there is also the possibility of refunding excise duty in its nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U474	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U475	Thank you, dear Deputy Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have to say, the story you're selling us this bill is a disgusting two-faced one. If it were an environmental issue, as you are trying to tell us here, then we would now have the Minister of the Environment, not the Minister of Finance. The fact is that in addition to the current re-use and the deposit system, a new tax will come from the pockets of the Estonian people and Estonian entrepreneurs, which will take 15 to 20 million from their pockets. That's the whole point. Because the current deposit system isn't going anywhere. The fact that we get a little money for it shows that the deposit system works well. It's really lame for me to watch people try to tell us things are gonna get cheaper. I heard from your speech that wood is going to be cheaper in this sense. At present, the so-called pollution charge for wood is €18 or €19, from now on it will be €1200, of which 10% is €120. How's that cheaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U476	Thank you. Currently, for wood, the rate of excise duty on packaging is EUR 1,2 per kilogram. The new rate, when we talk about re-use, we have two rates: when we launch and re-use, it will be four times cheaper. Instead of EUR 1,2, this rate amounts to EUR 0,3 per kilogram of wood for re-use. This is in turn 10% of the recovery rate when it comes to placing on the market. So four times the wood gets cheaper.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U477	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U478	Thank you, very honourable President of the sitting. Minister, thank you very much. My colleague, Mr Lauri, has already asked this question, but I have not received an answer to that question. What happens if some package goes out of the country and comes back in later? You said that if the package went out of the country again, a certain refund would be made during the year. But what if the same package comes back to us across the border and does it many times?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U479	Each time the packaging comes on the market, it is the moment of placing it on the market. If the package is placed on the market, it shall not be fixed whether the package has been out before and, if so, several times. Bringing to the market from a national border is fixed; placing on the market is subject to taxation. But when you leave, you'll get your money back nicely on the transport package.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U480	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U481	Thank you, Minister. My mind tells me that large lush packages serve the interests of sales, they increase sales and are useful. You say that this profitability will be reduced or lost. Do you have any analysis of what is, in one case or another, an optimal tax to compensate for the obvious impact of the consumer's decoy on the positive effects of the company's turnover? Can anyone determine that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U482	Thank you, very good question! There is also an ideological side here, or perhaps 'ideological' is wrong to say, but I think it is actually a good topic for discussion. Is overpacking in nature reasonable or not? Is it right to use large packages to promote sales? Often, they try to put a large and beautiful package around the little thing. Is that reasonable or not? Yeah, there's been some research on that. They have also been done in other parts of the world, the University of Tartu and the Tallinn Centre of the Stockholm Environmental Institute have conducted a study on this subject in Estonia. They have analysed the whole package excise logic of how it will affect the consumer in the future, what levels are expected to be, what are the environmental impacts. On the basis of this analysis, the proposals on the table today have been drawn up. I think that's a very good point. Here is precisely the question of which we would like to tolerate or, let us say, which we would like to encourage: either larger packages or rather a reduction in the weight of packaging.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U483	Krista Aru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U484	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Businesses have rightly pointed out that the Packaging Act is currently not working well enough and the following law is now being taken up. How should the next law, which is even tougher and harder for business, guarantee the expected result or contribute, as you said, to the improvement of our environmental awareness and the overall living environment? What has been done to improve the enforcement of the law that is currently in force?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U485	I think you've paid attention to the very right thing. I can't remember right now, but maybe in the last three months the situation has been that when we talk about re-use of the current law, we have paid for the state budget. A small amount of money, but still. I might be wrong, too. I'll check the numbers to see if we have a situation like this right now. So the fiscal side isn't involved. When it comes to improving the impact of the current law, it is certainly important that the whole data system is moved to another level. What do I mean by that? At present, 95% of packaging companies have joined recycling organisations. By the way, not everyone has joined: a hundred companies have not joined. But most have joined. And if it is to be verified, the Tax and Customs Board controls only those companies that have not joined recovery organisations through risk analyses. Now this system is changing a little bit. The data will be recorded in the register with the Environmental Agency, and both the Tax and Customs Board and recycling organisations will be able to retrieve them from there. The whole system in its nature and the exchange of all information will become much clearer and more understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U486	Monika Haukanõmm, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U487	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The Chapter on the impact of the Act states that the draft does not affect regional development. And since it does not affect regional development, the effects have not been assessed. If we are now thinking about agriculture, the idea is that agriculture uses a lot of hay bales and silos. Are they also subject to packaging tax? If they go down there, there will inevitably be doubts that this measure will have a regional impact. I am thinking of small businesses. Will these packages I have mentioned be taxed or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U488	As I pointed out earlier, the first question is the question of if we follow the current law on when you will become a packaging company in the first place. When we look at how many companies there are and how many companies are registered, there is a question of what is the difference between them and why not all companies belong to them. This is mainly due to the fact that the company simply does not have a quantity of packaging that would require registration as a packaging company. The Tax and Customs Board, by the way, also, when carrying out random checks on companies in other areas, always checks this and has prescribed operators to do so, should they actually be packaging operators. With regard to the example you have given, if it is not a situation where the weight of a baler is more than 100 kilograms per year, you do not need to register as a packaging company.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U489	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! The explanatory memorandum refers to statistics by Member State and points out that ideally the quantities of packages placed on the market and the quantities of packaging waste should be approximately equal. We have a 30% difference in this respect and the Ministry considers that the reliability and quality of the accounts of packaging handling data are not sufficient. What do you think this 30% comes from? Are packaging companies not declaring everything or are 30% responsible for those companies that have not considered themselves to be packaging operators? Where's that 30% coming from anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U490	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U491	In itself, recycling organisations and the Ministry of the Environment have stated that 90% of packaging companies have joined recycling organisations. I think that the essence of the problem is, in fact, that I do not exclude it to some extent, existing companies declare less packaging than they actually use. After all, the declaration involves financial obligations. But there may be another situation: that the recovery organisation is overdeclarationing. And by the way, what is being denied there is also the fact that recovery organisations are not taxable persons. If this new system starts operating and there is a clear register, which is maintained by the Environment Agency, then you can make inquiries from there. In the old days, the recycling organisation had to ask for information, and now the recycling organisation itself is automatically receiving data from the register. The image should become much better reviewed and evidence-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U492	The second question from the Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U493	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Reply procedure: Imagine that the weight of the silo roll starts at about 400 kilos and around it goes a 7 to 10 kilos of film. Less than a few dozen rolls of smaller household just won't do it because it gets so expensive. Now, calculate this 100 kilos coming up really fast. We really hope that you will think about this and will not sack Estonia's small and medium-sized farmers. But my question is about environmental impact. The shoppers often do not have the option of buying goods from foreign countries in a different way than surrounded by huge packages. What real impact could you have on the environment if you have achieved your goal? And how will this be achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U494	For the various excise policy measures, the aim is always to reduce the consumption of the specific product subject to excise duty. I remember that when we were talking about excise duties on fuel, Prime Minister Taavi Rõivas stated that it would definitely direct people to buy cars that require less fuel. They laughed at it unreasonably. I think it is true, however, that it is directing, and that is one of the aims of less fuel from fossil raw materials. For all excise duties, there is always a desire to direct the consumer and the producer to use it in smaller quantities. So is the current measure. If you say that this is too small a measure, that it does not affect the company not to feel it, if you so ask the question, then that is a completely different question. In that case, I understand that Parliament must instead be proposed to increase this excise duty, because the expected impact is not felt and will not begin to reduce packaging. However, the logic of excise duty is always that the effect of excise duty is directed towards reducing consumption both for the consumer and for the provider of the product.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U495	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U496	Thank you. Well, let's keep this nice debate going. I understand that your recommendation, for example, to pharmaceutical manufacturers, this area went through here before it is to start selling pills to people as weight goods and to farmers, perhaps to find some new technology to cover the silo. Maybe you can put it in a roll or a silo, because you don't have to put plastic on it. Well, then, we expect good suggestions from the Ministry of Finance. I will still come back to the same message you give to entrepreneurs. Then tell me what you're afraid of! Say in this Chamber that this bill has only a fiscal effect. It does not make sense to explain that it has an environmental impact if the previous EUR 250000 was not taken into account in terms of environmental impact, and now, by collecting 18 million, the environmental impact is enormous. You only have one goal: to get money. Tell the entrepreneurs and the people of Estonia that all packaged goods will be more expensive, and the consumer will pay for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U497	Thanks! I don't know if you've been in this room the whole time or not in the meantime. But that's it. In my introductory speech and later in one reply, I said that this bill is handled by the Ministry of Finance, not the Ministry of the Environment. As I said, there is, of course, a fiscal impact. We've never denied it. But if you say it's the only effect, you're wrong. No, it's not the only effect. If you ask whether the fiscal impact is one objective, then yes, there is one objective. We have never denied that taxes on earning and labour costs should go down and that the impact of these reductions must be offset by taxes which are passed on to consumption and vices.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U498	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U499	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have to say, like the introduction of this entire bill, I think your previous answer was a big blur. The fact is that, in combination with the deposit system and the recovery system and the new rates of excise duty, everything will become more expensive. The rate of excise duty on all types of packaging, including wood, is increasing. But all right. I'm asking about reducing packaging. How do you comment on the fact that, for example, chemical companies are strictly regulated by other laws, which packaging they have to use as large and which material. How does this new tax force these packages to be reduced? The second question: if we have the same euro pallets that travel within a trading company, for example, when goods are transported from one warehouse to another, and if all this is taxed, who will pay for it? It's paid for by a normal person. How does all this reduce the use of Europeans? Can goods be transported to a shop without Euro pallets?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U500	You can't do that in general. Part of the goods can most likely be transported without euro pallets, but they certainly play an important role in the transport of goods from point A to point B. There have also been analyses. I've already mentioned them, but I think there's a reason to mention them a few more times. The best legislation is based on drawing conclusions from analyses. And the analysis shows what the load of different consumption units is expected to be. You gave the same example of wood. I once again assure you that the current rate of excise duty on wood recycling is EUR 1.2 per kilogram will be EUR 0.3. Believe me, that's the way it is!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U501	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U502	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, your answers to the last questions show that in some way these beautiful things concerning income tax benefits for people etc. must be covered. You gotta get some money from somewhere. But my question is that the data on the packaging register is only here for 2010 and 2014. Aren't they fresher? If the register were to work properly, there might be more recent data on how much the use of packaging has increased. Perhaps this register cannot and will not manage the transfer of data to the tax administration as required by the law. Maybe it's gonna be new shit. Isn't that fear?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U503	Thank you. Would it be easy for me to answer the question, 'No, it isn't. ' But you know I'm certainly not gonna answer that in such a short time. No, of course there's no fear. The best efforts are made to ensure that data are of high quality. After all, there will be a completely separate system, which, as I have mentioned, will in future give different organisations the opportunity to exchange data through the X-Road. It is a well-controlled and completely new system. I don't think this system's gonna work. I believe it will work, at least that's what the experts have confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U504	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U505	Thank you. Good Minister, I admire your optimism about the fact that you think small Estonia can change the packaging habits of international cosmetics and pharmaceutical companies. Maybe you could open up that background. Do you really believe that you can achieve that these packages will become smaller?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U506	Well, here you could answer the question by asking how you can expect that consumption or production patterns will change as some excise duty rises. That's the point of excise duty. But I'm not gonna answer like that. You know, all this packaging excise stuff about its nature isn't a new thing. This is not the idea of a new coalition in the last six months. You know, I'll tell you the truth: the excise duty on packaging was in its essence two years ago, during the coalition in 2015, a source of cover that gave EUR 15 million. Just so you know, this is certainly not a reflection of the last few months to pay proper attention to the excise duty on packaging. No, two years ago, the aim was to introduce excise duties on packaging. It was based on a size of EUR 15 million and included in the tables of the national budget strategy. So what are we really gonna do today? We have finally reached the stage where there is a specific draft, which means that the packaging that is placed on the market is taxed and that producers must be directed towards using more environmentally friendly packaging materials.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U507	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U508	Thank you. Mr. Waitress! There is a big difference between levying one tax or another. If you ever talked about it, it wasn't so stupid for a cost policy and not with so many taxes at the same time. There is a fundamental difference. From what you are saying, I would conclude that the consumer will not be affected by this in the explanatory memorandum. Companies are actually not particularly affected by this, as large packaging pays off. All right, you can collect the tax. But the serious problem with this bill is that too many people have no choice. For example, what do you say to Ruth Oltjer of the year, whose chemical bottles are always full and economical and who is a major exporter? Why are you taxing him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U509	I'll start at the beginning. In the introduction, you said that our spending policy was stupid. Maybe I'm wrong, but it seems to me that you're accepting money from packaging excise, but the question is, where is this money going? That was your first statement. The second argument was that not so much should be done at the same time. I do not know whether you had in mind different tax policy decisions or the fiscal impact of a specific draft of EUR 15 million. When you were talking about the fiscal impact of EUR 15 million, we discussed it with you two years ago that the impact of this excise duty could be EUR 15 million. I remember it very well. As regards companies that are currently on the market and produce different products and take them out, they are all in an equal position in their nature. Of course, our aim is to have no distinctions. I think you are also in agreement with reducing differences. And we have already agreed that, when it comes to an eco-product, there is an exemption, in the case of transport packages, money is refunded, repack is taxed only once, etc. But our primary objective should be to direct companies towards environmentally friendly production.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U510	Aivar Sõerd, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U511	Dear Minister, The collection of this 15 million, which you urgently need to cover the budget gap, is still going to cost the state and businesses very much. I am thinking of an additional tax bureaucracy: the cost of IT developments in the tax administration alone is EUR 500000, and the Environmental Agency receives 200,000. The explanatory memorandum states that there will be an increase in the workload of this agency and the Tax and Customs Board, as the new system will have to be developed and the packaging companies consulted. This is still a very big extra job to do to raise this money. In the Committee on Finance, we learned that there are currently 1.5 jobs in the tax administration to raise this EUR 250000. There is still a lot of work to be done, including for businesses and the environment. I ask you this: how much will your new tax bureaucracy create new jobs that are not productive jobs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U512	I'm trying to unravel this long introduction. I don't think we should be afraid of this job. You say there's gonna be a lot of extra work. But if the objective is pursued, many of these costs are one-off costs. For example, creating the system itself is clearly a one-off cost. We should look at it in the bigger picture. As I mentioned, on the one hand, it is a goal that there are fewer packages, that they are more environmentally friendly, etc., but on the other hand, as I have said many times, the fiscal objective is to tax more not on earning, but on consumption. Perhaps the other way around is to say to your question, what could be the message to businesses in the case of packaging excise duty, that this message is that packaging could be more environmentally friendly and that our fiscal policy decisions are aimed at reducing labour taxes. There's no direct connection, there's no equal sign of footsteps. For example, it cannot be said that the money from the price of sweetened beverages goes specifically to the Tallinn highway of Tartu. I'm sure there isn't such an equal sign. But if we look at the big picture, it can be said that tax shifting from earning to consumption has been the goal of the coalition in tax policy decisions for six months and, let us be honest, also the aim of the previous coalition. In this regard, I also noted earlier that the excise duty on packaging was officially on the table as a source of cover already two years ago in precisely this amount.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U513	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U514	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. When you answered my fellow Members' questions, we realised that the regional policy dimension was not taken into account, although a small farmer would certainly incur extra costs. It's clear, knowing the weight of hay bales and silo rolls. But I'm gonna ask you another question. Do I understand that the logic is that if one undertaking uses 105 kilograms per year as packaging, it will be subject to this tax, but ten companies using 95 kilograms per year will not be subject to this tax? How in this way can we ensure the circulation of a smaller number of packages? Where's the logic?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U515	Thank you. You've got it perfectly right, I'll tell you first. You understand perfectly correctly: if the amount of plastic exceeds 100 kilograms, the operator should register as a packaging company. In fact, there was an answer to your question. Assuming that the company calibrated production precisely at the border, it has an interest in reducing the quantity of packaging itself, so as not to be a packaging company within the meaning of this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U516	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U517	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Minister! I hope you have received today's letter from the Estonian Taxpayers' Association and a press release, or at least one of your assistants, to introduce it to you. If not, I will mark, just in case, that there is an idea to cancel an increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 and replace it with 450. Do you understand? Then a number of these small tax increases could be removed from the sweetened drinks and packaging and perhaps some others. Please comment on this idea of a taxpayers' union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U518	I understand that there is a desire to widen the discussion, but I think it would be reasonable to concentrate today mainly on the packaging and packaging excise law. But you know me, and I'm not gonna stop there, so I'm gonna say a few things. You can make this amendment. You can propose to reduce the income tax-free minimum for people to 450 or 400. Make that suggestion! I don't support it, but maybe they will. I know that you have proposed raising people's income tax from 20% to 24%, even 26%, if I am not mistaken. I don't support it either, but there are different tax policy decisions on the table. Our vision in nature is that the taxes associated with working and earning are as low as possible. Your vision is different. You want 24% or 26% of income tax instead of 20%. These are different visions: we say that labour taxes should go down, people must have more money, you say the other way around. These are different visions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U519	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U520	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you to the members of the Riigikogu for the proverbs they can put in their programme, which are deplorable and which are not, which are the only correct tax policy solutions! I honestly feel sorry for you in some ways. I don't think you understand that the left-wing parties have pushed you into the tank, and your only function is to come up with new taxes as a source of cover for the left-wing promises. I feel sorry for you! But here's the question. The packaging register is already available in the Republic of Estonia since 1997. In 2005, it was essentially reorganized to meet the "euro" requirements, but to this day, about 30% of the packaging does not go through it. What is the basis on which you believe that this register will work when you adopt a more complex and extensive law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U521	I guess I'll start again from the beginning. I don't have any proverbs. You started by saying no to you, I have no proverbs. Mr Ammas asked for an opinion on the possible reduction of the tax-free minimum and 'exploited' the matter to tax policy decisions. I didn't teach you. I told you what I thought. I say that the share of labour taxes should be reduced in the future. That is my opinion as a politician. I certainly don't teach. And I honestly admitted that, of course, someone else has a different opinion. Surely this is not a teaching, rather an explanation of your position. As regards the packaging register on which your question was addressed, I think that this new system, by its very nature, actually ensures a new quality of data. At the moment, if you want to get the data, you will contact recycling organisations. 95% of packaging companies are members of these organisations and interact with each other. Re-use organisations collect packages on behalf of and on behalf of these companies on the market and they pay them a specific fee. This system is changing. The Environmental Agency's packaging register is the place where the data are collected, and all others, including the TKOs, or recycling organisations, will be able to access them from there. This is, in my opinion, one guarantee that this system will work better and we will have a good overview of the packaging companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U522	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U523	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! There are far over 115000 economically active companies in Estonia. If I understand correctly, this law directly affects about 4,500 of them. They are the ones who face the burden of this new tax. If this planned income of 15 million is divided between these 4500, then on average it will be EUR 3500, but certainly for some tens of thousands and perhaps hundreds of thousands of euros. This means less competitiveness, less ability to pay wages, less investment. How do you comment on that? Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U524	Yes, you have certainly understood this correctly in that sense, that there are currently 4500 packaging companies. Their number may increase over time. I am sure you have also rightly understood that some companies pay more, some less, packaging excise duties. The same is true of people's wages. Some get a higher salary, some get a lower salary. Of course, the excise duty on packaging depends on how many products you pack and how much you have around the products. Of course, the proportions are different. So you've got it perfectly right in that sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U525	Urve Tiidus, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U526	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will add some numerical figures to this round of questions and answers. I build on the letter from the taxpayers' association that arrived in the Riigikogu today and refer to their calculations. From the company's point of view, the cost of one tonne of plastics increases by 136%, the cost of one tonne of metal by 185%, the cost of wood by 650%, etc. I am not going to challenge these figures, they are probably the right union of taxpayers. But more interesting in this letter is the indication that the size of households in Estonia is decreasing. People live more alone, packages need more, and your alleged positive impact on the environment so-called it disappears. On the contrary, the number of packages purchased is increasing. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U527	Thank you for your question, but look where we have come from in our debate. We have come to the argument that if excise duty is fixed, then perhaps more packaging will begin. This about came out of the resume of the letter. Rather, the point of any specific excise duty is 'you yourself have just stated that it will make the product more expensive. I think that everyone has an interest in reducing the consumption of excise products. If you ask me if overpacking is growing now, I don't think it will. Once again, I repeat, there will be no other rate of excise duty going around. Compared to today, when we are talking about these two things, and about bringing them to the market, the two positions of excise duty are falling. The rate of re-use in two positions is falling: it is timber, as I said before, with a 75% reduction in excise duty, and paper with a 33% reduction in excise duty. Metal excise remains the same, but it rises on plastic and glass: 20% on plastic, 33% on glass. If you notice, these packages will become more expensive, which is more harmful to the environment. Wood and paper are clearly more environmentally friendly. As I mentioned, the tax on placing on the market is 10% of the tax on recycling, i.e. once again wood, and once again reddishing, we will take the same example of wood: the new rate will be EUR 0.3 per kilogram of wood, and 10% of it will have to be paid for placing on the market, i.e. EUR 0,03 per kilogram of wood.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U528	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U529	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I will come back to the same question and answer that you have just given. Paper, cardboard and wood are the cheapest in the table of excise duty rates. One of the aims of this law is, of course, to protect the environment, but you have always emphasised environmental protection. If we take the fact that the rate of excise duty on wood, paper and cardboard is the lowest, then perhaps in the future the bread loaf will also be put in a wooden box, because it is the cheapest package. How, then, do we have an environmental objective in mind when it comes to cutting down the forest?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U530	Thank you. That was an arbitrary interpretation and an arbitrary opinion. But if, at some point, wood wrappers are really going to be used instead of plastic wrappers, I think we are in the right direction. This is actually one of the aims of this law: to start using a more environmentally friendly product. This is one objective in addition to reducing the overall quantity of packaging. So in that sense, I am sure you have raised the question correctly. The aim is to focus production on more environmentally friendly packaging, and that is what we are doing today with our fiscal policy decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U531	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U532	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, In one form or another, these issues have already gone through here, but I will ask you such a question. At the end of the draft explanatory memorandum, there is a table containing the proposals and opinions of interested organisations. They are mostly followed by the word "Knowledge taken." Why have these proposals hardly been taken into account?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U533	I think quite a number of proposals have been taken into account. Of course, we must always look at the content, at what the proposed change is all about and what will follow in the future. This bill has been drawn up by a large number of parties. In general, it has also been said that some drafts have come to the hall as a matter of urgency. Please note that no one has asked today why this bill came to this hall so quickly. The reason is very simple: it has been prepared for a very long time and met with various parties. In view of the improvements that have been made to all the parties as a result of the meetings, I believe that today there is one whole on your tables.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U534	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U535	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I am reading from the news recently published that Mr Seeder, the new chairman of your party, would like to make improvements to the three draft tax laws. They would also concern the mortgage income tax, the packaging excise duty and the sweet tax. Are you aware of the changes that Seeder would make to the packaging excise law currently under discussion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U536	I think it's a slippery path when you start commenting on someone else's comments. I have not read the news, and it is difficult for me to comment immediately. There is a slight difference between the coalition and the coalition: before the coalition agreement was a bit of a dogma, and this was not to be said of much respect at all. A possible step back would have been a sign of weakness. But there are living documents all around us. If you have any good ideas, if the Chairman of the IRL, Helir-Valdor Seeder, has good ideas and anyone else, then all these good thoughts are always welcome. If the purpose of these good ideas is to improve the law, and why shouldn't it be? And we'll take them into account, then we'll do the role that we've been invited to play here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U537	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U538	Thank you. Mr. Minister! In your previous answers to the questions of honourable colleagues, you have described this law as a law of value-based excise duties. Well, hold on to the hat! That's what I'd like to say. So what values are we talking about here? But that's it. In fact, the question is whether it would not be possible to raise the amount of money that you need to renovate the City Hall and cover all other costs under the laws already in force. After all, different parties, different organisations, have indicated that if the tax office were to focus on those companies that are not actually paying taxes, it would be possible to collect these amounts. Why do you make the Estonian tax system more complicated than it already is?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U539	I will then try to answer from a distance, because you have taken the trouble of approaching the subject so far. I always do that when a politician has a 'longer history'. Then I'm gonna dig up the thoughts that were born in someone's gray matter and put these pieces together. You know, I'm gonna tell you a story I just remembered. I don't think I'm unfair to anyone when I tell this story. This was in 2015 after the elections, when the IRL came from the opposition to negotiate with the Reform Party and the Social Democrats. Then there were a lot of thoughts that I wanted to put into practice. In 2015, I was at the negotiating table, too, and your party put packing excises on the table. They said that, oh, the excise duty on packaging should be EUR 15 million! As a result of our opposition, we were wondering what the hell kind of package excise duty was. Is that reasonable or unreasonable? Then it was said that it is very reasonable, it should go on, it provides an opportunity to focus on environmental friendliness, values, cheaper materials, etc. This should go on! This should work! I guess I'm not being unfair when I describe exactly what it was like back then. Today, we have just come to the point where this two-year-old thought can be realized. Today we have this bill on this table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U540	Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U541	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! It has been said for a long time that this bill has a very positive impact on the environment. In this way, I cannot understand why the government did not refer this draft to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U542	Thank you. That is a good question and I will, of course, answer all the questions. But this is a draft excise duty and all excise duties are within the remit of the Ministry of Finance. This leads to proceedings at the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment has been very closely involved in this draft. To give examples of other excise duties that we have dealt with in the past, such as alcohol excise duties, the health effects of alcohol indicate that the draft has come from the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the person handling the excise duty is still the Ministry of Finance. It's just that the input has come from somewhere else.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U543	Meelis Mälberg, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U544	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! How do you intend to ensure that this tax is collected? Will these companies be visited by tax officials or environmental agency inspectors or companies themselves declare and have to audit it afterwards? If so, it will again be an additional cost for businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U545	Thank you, good question! I'm about to get an answer, too, but I remembered a former story at the Tax and Customs Board. One tax officer was posted to a particular restaurant's cashier one Tuesday and then the cashier's turnover on that Tuesday was x%, probably even 50% higher than on all previous Tuesdays. The question arises as to whether tax officials should be put in all the offices of all restaurants. It's probably not. It is likely that the tax authorities will have to consider how to reduce the possibility of a competitive advantage from non-payment of taxes. Coming to your question, I think, of course, there are always people who are trying to trick the system, outsmart it, not pay whatever verbs we use in this case. But, of course, the system is being designed to function in its nature. I think it is appropriate to emphasise here that conditions must be equal for everyone. It's very important. The conditions of competition cannot be such that one has different conditions than the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U546	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U547	Thank you, good manager. Minister, you can speak! Indeed, the whole story sounds fluent and sleepy, perhaps in the hope that the ambassadors will get tired. Maybe you could get a little more specific. Businesses have also approached me, trying to understand this bill, the writing. What, though, is in this bill that leads life forward and strongly improves our environment? Businesses have read it backwards and backwards, but unfortunately, none of this has been found. Would you help those entrepreneurs who asked such a question, and also me, and would you briefly say how happiness comes to our yard, along with this bill, when you end the poetry question like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U548	Thank you, good Wave! I'll start with the introduction. My goal is certainly not to put the ambassadors to sleep far from it. I believe that work must be done, we should not be afraid of it. I think we're gonna have a long, nice debate tonight. I have to stand here, you can sit down and even walk away sometimes. But I think it's a good debate, and I always like a good debate. If you ask me what the bill's message is and why they want to make one or the other change, that has already been said today, but I repeat. I don't think anyone ever likes an excise in isolation. Believe me, if we take one excise duty or another, and not just excise duty, but tax at all, we will not like it alone. I am well aware that a few months ago, when discussing tax policy proposals, a company said that these drafts are on this table today, that dealing with sugar is the right thing, because it contributes to the avoidance of obesity and to people's healthier behaviour, but do not deal with new taxes relating to banking. And there was also a very different situation where it was said that we should deal with banking taxation, but not sugar taxation. Let us repeat what the purpose of this draft is. The aim of the draft is firstly to increase the use of environmentally sound materials. Secondly, reducing overpacking. And thirdly, as I said, the fiscal objective. With regard to this third fiscal objective, which we have talked about a great deal about today, it will certainly contribute to reducing labour taxes and increasing consumption taxes. It's been one of our messages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U549	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U550	Thank you. First of all, I will settle here the earlier claim that excise duties on packaging have been proposed by the Reform Party. No, it wasn't! The current excise duty on packaging is intended to motivate packaging companies to collect and recycle packaging waste placed on the market in a fully understandable and logical way. Now you're building some kind of excise duty with a clear fiscal character next to this, and you're creating it with environmental protection, and God knows what else. As Minister of Finance, please introduce the fundamental philosophy that underpins the introduction of this new excise duty in the Republic of Estonia! Why make everything difficult? After all, this new excise duty does not actually meet the objectives of environmental sustainability, which you are talking about, but is purely fiscal. Tell me straight: it's just an extra tax, it's a transaction tax, a sales tax or any other kind of tax on certain goods!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U551	I don't know if you all have the same memo that you're reading from somewhere, all you're saying is say it honestly. And when I say frankly every time we have one goal, a fiscal goal, the next question still comes out to be honest. Once again, I will be honest with you: one of the objectives is the fiscal objective of transferring taxes from earning to consumption. I'll be honest with you! The next time they ask, I will say it honestly once again: the aim is to carry the tax burden from earning to consumption. Bringing labour taxes down, raising consumption taxes, raising environmental taxes, raising vice-related taxes, this is our goal, let me be honest. Next time they ask, I'll say it once more honestly. There's no question! Now, the other part of your question was that, apart from the fiscal objective, what is our objective? Or let's say that if fiscal is a'second objective', then what is our primary objective? You know, we actually, you know, notice, they're essentially going to change that's a very important thing! - the point of charge. Up to now, no attention has ever been paid to placing on the market as a fact itself. Now the place of taxation will be on the market. I think that this is very important in order to stimulate companies to less pack already at the time when they are placed on the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U552	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U553	You know, friends from the opposition! I noticed one thing: the Minister's tone has changed in two hours. Do you remember how he started? We've got the environment, we've got health, people go to fat, they go to bullshit. At that time, the aim was also a little fiscal. Now it is exactly the opposite: in general, the fiscal objective, but also the other one. We need to continue with the questions, because the Minister is close to withdrawing this proposal and all the rest of this nonsense. In fact, please note that the Minister is approaching that he is going to deal with the things for which he is paid: he is approaching to talk about finance. Do you have any idea when the Minister is going to be in charge of finance? Then there's no point in being in opposition anymore. So does the Minister intend to deal with Estonian finances in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U554	Yeah. Thank you. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U555	Liina Kersna, another question, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U556	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I was given the impression from your answer to my previous question that your party chairman has not yet discussed with you a plan to amend the draft legislation on excise duties on packaging. Is this impression correct and, if so, do you think it is normal for the party chairman to make plans without the minister responsible for this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U557	Thank you. You're trying to build some kind of construction. I'm sorry, but I'm forced to move forward with these same structures so that we're equal. I'm saying that there's really nothing to do with the package here anymore in the sense that we're going far from the package excise, but you're asking. We don't have the confrontation you had when you had two candidates for chairmanship, so the videos went around, one was bad, one was black and the other was white. We didn't have that kind of thing. If you're thinking about this campaign, I don't think I'm being unfair when I say you really did. Here's the answer to your question. We are, of course, discussing all issues, not just packaging excise, but all issues. Of course we'll discuss it! Of course, one party and one thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U558	Kalle Palling, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U559	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hope that I will also be given the opportunity to tell a small story if the Minister can do so in his reply. We have also had various debates in this house. One debate has been such that there could be such a principle that one party can make as many proposals as the support of its party. To ensure that the number of proposals depends on the support of the party. Then today, instead of six taxes, they would be somewhat less on the table. The second thought has been that in which package the IRL will be packed when it is taken to the Estonian National Museum. Apparently, the people won't let this party get away for a very long time. But also the question: have you considered alternative measures to this tax? I'm waiting for a yes or no answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U560	Thank you. I did not understand what you meant by alternative measures. For example, have we considered an increase in the price of diesel instead of packaging excise? If that is what you mean, I say to you: on the contrary, look what has happened! The previous government unanimously wanted to increase the excise duty on diesel in 2018. No, I won't! Well, don't raise it on January 1st. By the way, it has a negative budgetary impact of 37 million, but it will have 37 million positive impacts on businesses, as you will understand. These are the alternatives you can see, please! Although they don't have equal signs. You asked if there were different tax policy decisions. No, it's not! If you note, tax policy decisions have recently been taken, including excise policy decisions, which give companies much more influence than packaging excise duties. But once again, there is, of course, no equal sign between them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U561	Mart Helme, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U562	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Let me answer Kalle Palling's first question first for you. When he asked what values this draft was, I say that it is financial values, monetary values. It is absolutely clear, and you have also repeatedly admitted that. But here's the question. We all know we've got all kinds of old equipment being accepted at the waste plants, but there's gonna be a reward for certain things. Can't give everything away for free. That's definitely one of the reasons we have dumps under the woods. Those who have more of these waste will simply not pay and lead to the forest. Are you not afraid that the current draft could encourage the expansion of forest-based landfills?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U563	Thank you. I agree with you that any increase in excise duty is mainly excise, but in fact, any increase in tax always poses a potential risk of an increase in improper behaviour. To give examples of other areas, when we decided two years ago to increase both excise duties on alcohol and tobacco, at the same time we set aside additional money to increase the capacity of the Tax and Customs Board to control the movement of goods in an operational manner. In this sense, you are certainly right that the higher the excise, the greater the desire to avoid it. Of course, then, the state and control bodies must also have the will and the ability and ability to prevent these opportunities, if anyone should have such a desire.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U564	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U565	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am indescribably pleased that the Ministry of Finance is the ministry with the widest profile in the Republic of Estonia. While other ministries have focused on their field, the Ministry of Finance has specialists from all walks of life. This is evidenced, for example, by the fact that we talked here today about the taxation of e-cigarettes, which is a fiscal bill, but the explanatory memorandum only referred to public health, which shows that there are also health specialists in the Ministry of Finance. Now we are talking about packaging excise and, in this light, also about environmental protection, so there are also indescribably many environmental specialists in the Ministry of Finance. My question, however, is that multinational corporations have absolutely no regard for the small marginal Republic of Estonia and its laws. They will not be packaging less or more sparingly. If you go shopping today, most cosmetics and home chemistry are not of Estonian origin. How, then, will this new law still help us improve the environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U566	This memo got read somewhere before, but I'll answer again. First of all, specialists for starters. I don't think I'm being unfair when I say the Ministry of Finance can't take all the credit. On this draft, but also on other drafts, you have given an example of the drafts relating to health behaviours, which have always been given input by the ministries of industry. The Ministry of the Environment has been very much present in the process of handling this draft at all times. True story, I think that if the Ministry of Finance is, by its very nature, a planner for excise duties and other taxes, the Ministry of the Environment will, of course, have the greatest competence in this example. As far as the substance of the question is concerned, how or whether our potential packaging excise duty affects the behaviour of large conglomerates on the market in one country or another, it is a big picture. Estonia is not, as I said, the only country that is taking these steps. Far from it! There are very many countries that have introduced packaging taxes at different levels, of course. If we look in the full picture, which is the main objective of this law or packaging excise duty, it is by its very nature that packaging itself and packaging in large packages will be reduced. I think it serves that purpose. We have also taken into account a certain degree of elasticity in the Ministry of Finance on this draft, bearing in mind that in the future companies will draw the necessary conclusions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U567	Arthur Talvik, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U568	Good President! Good minister! Before you spoke about how the Ministry of the Environment gave good input to this bill. Please tell me what the input came from the Ministry of the Environment. How much did the Ministry give it, and what was the good part?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U569	These inputs have actually been provided all the time in this process. This is a good example of cooperation where you do not only concern one section and the other, and do not seek advice on any parts of one or the other law. They've been there all along. But if you ask me what's one of the last entries, I can tell you. One of the most recent proposals was the reduction of excise duties on wood recycling. It was they who paid more attention to it, who told the Ministry of Finance that in this position we need to pay more attention to it. Wood is much greener. Yes, the current excise duty on packaging for wood is EUR 1,2 per kilogram. As I said before: it will be four times cheaper. This certainly should not be overlooked. The Ministry of the Environment also said that we pay more attention to excise plastics, less attention to wood. This analysis came from them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U570	Laine Randjärv, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U571	Thank you. Good minister! I don't know what memos you have in mind, no one's given me any memos. But my next question comes from your answers and concerns the stimulation of businesses. I don't know if you know what that means. Stimulus is a sting, a spike, a pointy stick to stimulate animals or slaves. In the past, the donkey was pierced with this spike to make it move faster. Thus, the stimulus is an irritant that induces a reaction in the body. And my question is this: what kind of reaction do you expect from businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U572	Thank you. We expect businesses to start.. and this is a reaction, just as in the case of excise duties there should be some reaction to bring fewer packages to the market and that the packaging is more environmentally friendly. I think this could be the reaction when this excise law has come into force. That, in my opinion, was also the reason why we brought this idea to the table with you two years ago. What else could that be our reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U573	Igor Gräzin, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U574	I am happy to pass on what you said to one party and one thought to my committee chairman, Helir-Valdor Seeder, so that he also knows that one party and one thought. Now another thing: I'm feeling a little bit of a little bit of a clogging element here. Don't take it personally again, but you just talked yourself into it. You want the packages to go down. But wait, aren't you the Minister of Finance anymore? If there's fewer packages, there'll be less excise duty. I mean, why are you a finance minister if you want tax receipts to be reduced? And I don't understand you saying that a fiscal objective is necessary, but it is not necessary. How is this going to work now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U575	Thank you, good Igor! I'll explain it calmly, of course. That's a very good question, thank you! In fact, it is a very good question. And this question always hits the Minister of Finance at the moment when the various excise products are spoken of. But if excise duty on alcohol is increased and the aim is to reduce consumption, then it is always the question that what is the ultimate goal? We're running out of money. When we brought oil shale down with you last year, 65 million were not collected in the state budget and may be asked how this is possible. It all depends on why one thing or another is done. In the case of the oil shale, together with the then Minister for Economic Affairs, we saved a lot of jobs, and I think it was an opportunity to keep the mines open. When we talk about excise duty on alcohol, the reduction in excise money when we raise excise duty, we might ask whether this is our goal. Yes, it is! After all, we know the effect of alcohol on the health insurance fund, the costs that the health insurance fund incurs in connection with alcoholism. Perhaps some of the costs are excluded because of the excise duty. But in the case of packaging, there is always an impact on the natural environment, which Mr Pomerants, as Minister for the Environment, can certainly speak much more about than I do. Of course, there is an impact there too. We should not hide this effect as if we were, and we could bring it out. That is definitely one objective. Of course, the Minister of Finance always has an interest, on the one hand, that the budget should receive as much money as possible, but on the other hand we are all here people whose aim should also be to deal with the reduction of vices and the environment. I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U576	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U577	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Finance! In addition to the tax bill, which is generally relatively bad news in my opinion, there is sometimes good news. I congratulate you on the great day of Estonian tennis, which you probably have not been able to observe while on the remote! But that's the kind of thing I'm asking. In the zero bureaucracy working group, we discussed this issue and the entrepreneurs said that the idea of packaging excise was already on the table for new laws, but the entrepreneurs are also expecting reliefs and signs that the state understands that their lives in the same area must in some sense become simpler and less bureaucratic. How and when will these reliefs come, and what is your message to entrepreneurs besides paying as much tax as possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U578	Yes, I think that over time you have, and I have acted, and I believe that both of us are still working to reduce bureaucracy, in accordance, of course, with the opportunities we have at the moment. Of course, it is very important to deal with bureaucracy, to put down measures to reduce it. If we take into account the logic of packaging excise duties, I think that the design of the system itself, when everything goes electronically through the Environmental Agency's packaging register, is quite different from the current contracts with the TKOs. And I believe that in the future we will see a better and less bureaucratic system by nature.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U579	Thank you. As Mr Michal rightly pointed out, today is undoubtedly a great day for Estonia's tennis. Anett Kontaveit won 6: 4, 6: 0 the world's first racket, and I believe that for him it is only one of the first very great victories. I'm sure you'll all agree if we give him our congratulations from this hall. But now, Remo Holsmer, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U580	Thank you! Number 6 is actually typical of today. The government wants to introduce six new taxes on the same day, that is a common feature. But you have said in your answers that this possible law will not change the packaging of large producers. It does not depend on the Republic of Estonia how one or the other pharmaceutical company or food company packages its products. However, I come back to this so-called stem problem, as we are now in the habit of speaking. Figuratively speaking, do you want this bill to clean up a forest floor from a large pile of garbage, or do you just want to patch up a large-scale hole in the state budget? It's a very simple question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U581	Thank you. You said six, I'd say eight. Yes, I would say eight stories are about eight steps in the interests of entrepreneurship, which we could talk about in greater depth. There is certainly no time for this today, but we can talk about them in the debate on other drafts. One of the eight steps we just approved half an hour or an hour ago when there was a first-reading draft on the business account. That reading ended well. Not six, eight! You ask what the purpose of this bill is: is it primarily aimed at cleaning forest floors? I think this is not the main objective, and I have never said that the main objective is the cleaning of forest floors. The main objective is that packaging around products is smaller and that more environmentally friendly materials are used. That is what Kalle Laane was asking for, and I think one of the objectives is to make packaging more environmentally friendly. Yes, as I mentioned before, we also have a fiscal objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U582	Before Kalle Laane can ask his second question, my colleague Jürgen Ligil has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U583	Mr. Vice President, I have a procedural question. Wouldn't you be glad to be in the hall next to all that horrible information about the fact that Tanel Kangert rose to 8th on the grand tour? This has not been achieved by anyone in half of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U584	Thank you for that question. It seems to me that you were just glad to see the hall with this message, it was a reaction. I think that alongside the serious work we are doing here, we must have the opportunity to enjoy the excellent achievements of Estonian athletes and to be proud of Estonia in the best sense. Now, Kalle Laanet, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U585	Thank you, manager. Good minister! Today's ERR news noted that the new president of the IRL announced that this bill should be re-opened. Mrs. Liina Kersna also asked about this. Of course, we don't know exactly what this disengagement means. But there have been long and thorough discussions in this Chamber. What is your position, Minister? Are you also of the opinion that we should actually reopen this bill? Or are you still of the opinion that we could move forward in this form?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U586	Well, that's a terminological question, isn't it? What is breaking up the bill and shutting it down? Should start to define it too. Today we already defined stimulation here. But I have said this before, often referring to the state budget as an example, because it is a document in which more has been asked that there are generally very few drafts that leave Parliament in such a way that no changes have been made. Of course there are, but usually there are few. But there are always changes. The document is alive, the draft is alive. I think that we are rather in a situation today where the document was not closed, but a normal posture has begun in a democratic country. The draft is at first reading in Parliament and we all have the opportunity to provide input to make it even better. Yes, if you have thoughts, let us know!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U587	Kristen Michal, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U588	Thank you. I too am delighted about the big day of Estonian tennis, but also about cycling now, because Jürgen Ligi drew attention to this. My question, however, is the continuation of the previous one. You said that there were attempts to cut red tape within your powers. Where exactly are they hiding? If I look at the Chamber of Commerce's assessment, it is rather such that the administrative and tax burden on businesses is increasing. What are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U589	If the budget is estimated at EUR 15 million, then, believe me, the tax burden will increase by 15 million. It is not possible that if an additional 15 million comes into the state budget, the tax burden will not increase. The tax burden will increase absolutely by 15 million! In this sense, a perfectly correct statement. If you ask what the objective is, I have said it earlier and I will say it once again: the aim is to reduce the costs of labour taxes and to pass on the tax burden to consumption associated with vices and to increase the attention to the environment. Right now we're talking about the environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U590	Andres Herkel, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U591	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As I pointed out in my first question, this draft relates to the state budget. You have not been able to convince us that the main aim is not, however, to scrape revenue together. But tell us, in conclusion, that if Mr Seeder's intervention succeeds and some of these drafts are taken off the track, for example, this same bill, are you prepared to cut down the public sector in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U592	I will, of course, always try to answer all the questions, but I feel that we are always opening up some new elements that are far from the packaging excise duty. But once again, you know me, and I'm still trying to answer. You know, we've been cutting for years. Last year we cut administrative costs by 3%, and last year we cut administrative costs by 3% in the public sector. We have, in fact, done in administrative costs, how somebody here said in another context, a pretty decent rake, i.e. a decent job of cutting these costs. You asked me if it would be worth paying attention in the future, so I'm sorry that this goes far enough from packaging excise duty! just public expenditure. I think it's worth it. Yeah, it's worth it! I think that, especially when it comes to administrative costs, it is like yeast dough, which comes up quietly all the time, so I don't even notice. It should be our desire to pay attention to this. That is also the answer to the question of bureaucracy that Mr Michal asked. I think this is one of the examples: one is the financial side, that is just the cuts in administrative costs, and the other is the bureaucratic activities that, together, contribute to the reduction of public expenditure. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U593	No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. First, please... True, the Commission's presentation, of course, before the negotiations. And for the presentation of the Commission, I am delighted to ask Mr Kalvi Tõvi, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs for a speech. Thank you for that observation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U594	Good vice chairman! I'll be quick to move on to the negotiations. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft was discussed by the Finance Committee on 11 May and presented to the Commission by Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy at the Ministry of Finance. I have to say, Marek Uusküla told the exact same story as the minister here today. The members of the Commission, of course, had a number of questions. There was a debate and it must be said that, among the very many issues today, almost all the issues on which the Commission focused were also included. For example, whether the IT solutions will all be ready and implemented, as asked here today by both my colleague Urve Tiidus and my colleague Krista Aru. Marek Uusküla replied the same way as the minister is doing here. It was also asked about this "grey" and unequal competition, i.e. those companies that have not signed up as a packaging company. In this Chamber, Külliki Hatter asked this question today, and we also received a similar answer in the Commission. That was the debate. Of course, there were also different opinions on this draft in the Commission, but I hope that during the negotiations the representatives of the political groups will be able to express their opinions. As the Minister told us today, this is a stage in the procedure of a draft law, which means that it will live its life here in the Riigikogu. All of us can table amendments. The Commission decided that the deadline for amendments should be 10 working days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 18 May. This decision was taken by consensus. The Commission also decided by consensus to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 17 May. But that concludes the consensual decisions. When we voted on the proposal to terminate the first reading, six were in favour, four against and 0 abstentions. Such are the Commission's decisions, and this was a small overview of what took place in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U595	Thank you, good waitress. There are questions. Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U596	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You said so nicely that in the Commission, Marek Uusküla spoke exactly the same story as the Minister of Finance here. But it has come to my attention that you yourself did not hear this talk, because you were not present at the committee meeting. Who do you trust so much that you dare to say at once from the remote that the same thing was said in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U597	I dare confirm that the protocols that are being made in the Committee on Monetary Affairs are very thorough and that it is beautifully written who replied to what was being asked for. And it is also true that I did not participate in this committee meeting when it was discussed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U598	Ain Lutsepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U599	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable speaker, the Commission rapporteur. I do not know if I can ask you this, because you were not there in the committee sitting, but I am asking you, however, because this issue has been up here many times. Why did the Committee on Monetary Affairs not address this draft to the Committee on the Environment in order to obtain an assessment from it? There are a lot of environmental issues here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U600	Of course you can ask. However, this question was not raised in the sitting, at least according to the protocol. There was, however, a small debate between the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment and the officials of the committees before this draft was adopted. But the Bureau made its decision, and as far as I have heard about the Bureau's decision, so far the debate on these issues, which has been the subject of excise duties on packaging, has been in the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. It's the tradition of this house. That's how much I know about this thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U601	Thank you. There are no further questions, but can the representative of the Committee on Monetary Affairs repeat once again the date by which you are expecting amendments? In fact, as we know, that date is May 31, 17.15, but it seems to me that there was another date in the remote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U602	May 31st is very correct. So there was one mistake in the protocol.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U603	Clearly, 31 May is the Commission's proposal. Thank you very much for this clarification. And now, indeed, we are opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to ask Mr Andres Ammas for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U604	Honourable President! Respectable Minister of Finance! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to say right away that the thoughts that I present here on behalf of the Group have, of course, developed in part by listening to today's presentation by the Minister of Finance, but even more, perhaps by listening to the representatives of the Ministry at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, as well as by reading the comments of the packaging companies on this draft and directly communicating with the packaging companies. So if the Minister thinks that there is a routine opposition of the traditional opposition, that is not the case. I mediate the ideas of both the group and the specialists. And for the sake of the verbatim: I especially thank Artur Talihärma for his expert comments here! To conclude, we believe that this draft and the accompanying explanatory memorandum are quite controversial, I dare say, even hypocritical and derisive to the producers of real tax revenues. As is clear from the questions and answers here, this draft does not fulfil the objective of environmental impact. And if the Minister of Finance claims that the fiscal objective is in no way first, then, to put it very mildly, it is not credible. I'd like to say worse. A little background. Do you know that today it has become clear that the excise duty on packaging already exists? Under the current system, packaging operators are obliged to keep records of packages placed on the market by quantity and type. They are obliged to re-use the packaging and, if the undertaking itself is not able to do so, they will have to pay excise duty in accordance with the current rules. And since most packaging companies are not able to recover the packaging of the goods they sell from the market, or because the cost of such activities would simply be unreasonable for them, they have the opportunity, but in essence the obligation to join a recycling organisation. In this respect, it is noteworthy that this country itself monitors the accuracy of the declared quantities of packaging, in fact the State has given the packaging company the obligation to audit this packaging at its own expense. Now to the draft to be dealt with. In summary, the Ministry of Finance points out, and I quote: 'In addition, there are shortcomings in the current regulation relating to the correct recording and reporting of packaging and packaging waste and partially ineffective monitoring due to poor reporting. ' When you talk to the packaging companies, they say the Ministry is absolutely right. This objective of reducing packaging and packaging in circulation has not been achieved so far and is due to shortcomings in previous regulation and ineffective monitoring. But instead of correcting errors, making the system more effective in any way, the faulty system, as it is, is now left with the next obligation on the packaging company in the form of additional excise duties on packaging. During the meeting of the Monetary Commission, Marek Uusküla had a lot of talk about this possible supervision. However, despite all the explanations, it seems to the speaker here that it is very blue-eyed to hope that the new regime will now be so effective as to ensure that the objective of environmental impact is achieved. And it is also blue-eyed to hope that an unequal competitive environment with this new additional burden will somehow improve. Where does this inequality come from? This is due to unfair packaging companies that do not declare them. There are, and not few, these businesses, which have been shown by the business organisations themselves. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U605	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U606	So the gap between honest and unfair operators is likely to increase; the competitive advantage of an unfair undertaking may still increase. There is also a certain one thing that does not increase: the re-use of packaging and the quantity of packaging declared. It's not increasing. At the moment, the packaging company, as I said, is under an obligation to audit the packaging records placed on the market at its own expense. State supervision is essentially delegated. For businesses, it is unclear that the draft under consideration provides that the same data must now be submitted in parallel to the packaging register. Consequently, the data to date is not reliable. This means that the state does not consider this current audited packaging accounting to be reliable. Why, then, do packaging companies need to spend a considerable amount of money each year to audit packaging data? The objectives of the law, as has been mentioned today, are repeatedly mentioned in terms of environmental impact and the desire to motivate packaging companies to reduce the quantities of packaging placed on the market, to use more environmentally friendly packaging materials and to guide consumers to use packaging more sustainably. It is said to be an environmental measure with an economic impact. At the same time, however, the draft explanatory memorandum contradicts, and I quote: 'Therefore, packaging excise duty directed at consumers should not lead to a significant increase in household costs. 'In general, it is estimated that the impact of packaging excise duties on the final price of products is small and that, due to the increase in packaging excise duty alone, economic operators do not have to change significantly their business activities. Well, I'm sorry, if this effect is small, i.e. the draft does not affect consumption patterns, does not affect purchasing decisions, does not motivate producers to use more environmentally and environmentally sustainable packaging, then this law has little environmental impact. It has only the same much talked about fiscal impact and the entire bill is written about the desire to fill the state budget. Plus the effect I called it aggravates inequality in the business environment. Here today, the questioners have also quoted a letter from the taxpayers' association. The Taxpayers' Association has doubts that additional taxation on packaging will significantly reduce the volume of packaging, as most of the products sold by the retail trade are packaged in the factory and mostly outside Estonia. As a result of all that I have just pointed out, the Free Party is proposing to reject the draft at first reading. There's nothing you can do to get such a poor bill into law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U607	Next, please speak to Aivar Sõerdi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U608	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Business organisations have pointed out that today companies are spending €12 million per year on collecting packaging and preserving the environment through producer responsibility organisations. Indeed, the current system has shortcomings. It is also likely that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry are disturbed by the fact that not much will be received into the budget under the current system, at around EUR 250000 per year. And as the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs has shown, in the first months of this year, the receipts have been even less than EUR 130000. Yes, of course, the current coalition has created a huge budget deficit, which is patched up at the expense of existing reserves and is intended to cover the costs of the loan, by making commitments that are beyond the country's control. One major source is the new taxes in addition to those adopted here in December with the cluster bill, such as the increase in gas excise duty and alcohol duty. Six taxes! And then the one that is currently being discussed, which is intended to raise EUR 15 million, is EUR 18 million in a more optimistic scenario. Well, that, of course, can be discussed as to whether it's real. But it is clear that this is a tax that is still very expensive to collect, not only for the state, but above all for businesses. The bureaucracy that comes up is great. It is pointed out here that the IT development of the tax administration's packaging excise accounting alone will be EUR 500000. It has also been pointed out that there is a shortage of IT specialists. Consequently, the tax office intends to modernise the current e-Tax Board • are delayed as the new tax will need to be introduced quickly. So it is still an additional high cost for both the state and businesses, not to mention that this new tax will create non-productive jobs both in the public sector and in the private sector. In the private sector, businesses have said how many people they currently have for the system's reports, and in the case of the new system, this cost will increase considerably. Today, the Minister was asked quite a long and repeated question as to how the Ministry's objective of reducing the quantities of packaging placed on the market will materialise. Well, we're not France or Germany. We are a country with a very small internal market. It is noteworthy that the minister mentioned two areas: medicines and cosmetics. As has been the case with other new tax rulings, impact analyses are incomplete. The lack of this draft is that the impact analysis does not identify areas where packaging can be reduced. The minister himself said that these areas are drugs and cosmetics. There you go! How is it possible, for example, that AstraZeneca or Pfizer, big pharmaceutical manufacturers, will use packaging different for the Estonian market than for the French or German markets? This isn't real! And we never got an answer to that question, although it was repeatedly asked. Another major problem, however, is the unequal competition that arises. Currently, 4 000 packaging companies have been registered, but 75000 are active companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U609	Would Aivar Sõerd like more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U610	I'm asking for more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U611	Sure, three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U612	There are over 6,000 multinationals, including the food industry, the chemical industry. There are still quite a large number of companies that are excluded from the system and thus enjoy a competitive advantage. What we asked many times in the Committee on Monetary Affairs but did not receive a reply was how this control will be carried out. We got such a round answer that there's a random check, and this system is going to work. Well, there was no answer either in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or here today! Not to mention that all this 15 million will ultimately be taken from the consumer's wallet. Next, we will be talking here about the tax on sweetened beverages, and there is also the road user charge, which, as transport costs, will also be borne by the consumer. So the amount that is permitted by increasing the tax-free minimum will be withdrawn several times from the consumer's wallet. Finally, I would like to highlight one aspect that the Minister was talking about here. He gave examples of 2015 and previous government and what the previous coalition did or did not do. You see, the last coalition didn't bring six new taxes into this hall, at the same time. Neither did the budget law go against the budget. The current resentment of businesses is still unprecedented. This is certainly justified because our companies are being placed in an unequal competitive position, the tax system is being violated, and the components of the cost price of the product are becoming more expensive due to administrative tax increases. Ultimately, it is a very bad intention to introduce such a tax and the Reform Party proposes to reject the draft law amending the Packaging Act, the Packaging Act and the Environmental Charges Act at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U613	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U614	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, It's a shame the Minister isn't in the hall. I understand he's got a long agenda today, and he's taking a breather. But if it weren't so sad and tragic, it would still smirk how the conservative minister of the conservative party who re-established his conservative backbone and orientation would sell us a perfectly clear left-wing economic plan and a perfectly clear left-wing tax plan, being the unfortunate person who is here to report tax increases and invent new nasty taxes. I'm sure Reagan, Thatcher and Pinochet will jump into the air and scream hurrah-hurrah! Good luck, I'd say. A great deal of criticism, which we share, has already been rejected by the previous speakers. Yes, we can complain about the shortcomings of the current system and that some of the packages that should be in circulation or in the system of pledges are going to wander, essentially under the forest or into ordinary garbage, but that there is too little tax to be collected, should be seen as something good. The excise duty on packaging is intended to motivate people to use the circulation system. The smaller the collection of this tax, the better the circulation should take place and, if there are shortcomings, they must be resolved. We all understand one simple thing. If the national budget starts to receive EUR 17, 18 or 20 million instead of EUR 200000 or EUR 250000, then it is not something, forgive me, fine-tuning. Then it is a major change in the system and, as a result of this change, money is collected from the pockets of people and businesses. Once again, I object to what the Minister said in the twilight: some sort of tariff is decreasing. The question is that the final cost of one, another or third type of packaging will in any case be increased as a result of this change. For all types of packaging, the final cost will increase by 50 to 700%. So don't tell us that some kind of tariffs are decreasing. The final cost will be brutally higher for all types of packaging. But here's another little trick. At the moment, the problem is that basically consumption is being suppressed. This means that when something is sold, it has to be accounted for, and the seller of the same thing has to recover a certain percentage of the same type of garbage. That is why we have these recovery systems and deposit systems. This system isn't going anywhere, and the system isn't going to go away. There's just another component that makes it a lot more expensive. And another trick. Now we are going to pay the tax, because ultimately it will be paid by the consumer. Neither the company has any money for this, nor is it the European Central Bank or the American Federal Reserve, which can generate more money. The entrepreneur gets the money from where? Well, subsidies or all of our pockets. All the moves that are made inside the company are going to cost. If one of the paint factories still had to pawn only when the paint can was handed over to the counter, then now it has to pay for all the paint cans it has on the production line. For all those that go from one factory site to another factory, for all those euro pallets that move from one corner of the yard to another corner of the site, it has to pay excise duty. So far, I didn't. Now he's gonna have to pay for all this. It has also been said at length in the round of questions that it has to pay when goods move across borders, although this is not yet consumption. This is not consumption at all! Let's not confuse all these things again! If there is a product coming from a central warehouse across the border and it goes to processing in Estonia, for example, it is not consumption yet. And often these containers are recyclable. Another great story. While the state tells us to reduce consumption and motivates us to use smaller quantities of packaging with an axe on our back, the state has written with its other hand a very complex and very costly package of packaging rules, how much can be accommodated. For example, certain chemical fluids should not be placed in a larger tare than 1 litre. The same Ministry of Finance won't allow it because he's afraid that these chemicals will be used as car fuel. Nobody pours that kind of liquid into the tank, but if it's already in a 20-litre container, maybe it will. However, because of this requirement, it is not possible for operators to reduce the amount of packaging used • if you put 20 litres in a single container, then you will save the so-called 19 units. But you can't, you can't. Just as in many other areas. And it has also been said repeatedly here, both in the round of questions and in the speeches, that a very large part of the goods used in Estonia come from abroad and we have no way of influencing the packaging of this goods. Let's just draw a bold line on this thing! It is a brutal lie to the public in the face when someone comes to say that it is a conservation or environmental measure. On the contrary, there is a very high risk that it will have a negative impact on the environment, because the system will become more expensive and people will be putting garbage under the forest. This is a measure to collect money from people. It's that simple! I understand that I am against it, but I understand that the reds love to take money away from people so that they can scramble it back while they're waiting. But the supposedly conservative Minister of Finance of a conservative party should go underground because of the shame of defending this thing here. We propose to reject the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U615	Priit Sibul on behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U616	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Sven Sester is a big man, but I'm not sure all the characters Martin called fit in him. Thatcher and Pinochet can barely fit in at the same time. There are a lot of tax changes going on today, and I am not going to talk about all of them here. Some of them have been prepared longer, and others are the result of a coalition agreement concluded in the autumn. That's exactly the coalition agreement. Among these changes are those that have previously been included in the IRL programme, including those marked in the 2015 election programme, but there are also those that do not match our views and the weather view. We have agreed to pay this price in order to implement decisions that support a free and prosperous Estonia with more children and more joy. I am thinking of increasing the family allowance for the third child and raising the tax-free rate to EUR 500. One of the problems noted in our programme was the excessive consumption of sugar in Estonia, and it needs to be resolved. The second was the withdrawal of profits in the form of loans, not the payment of dividends, which could be the sensible behaviour of one profit-making company when investments are no longer made. We believe that the solutions before us today have been developed on the basis of best knowledge. However, this does not mean that these are final solutions and things can no longer be improved. This is also the case with all other draft tax changes. Today begins, not the end of Parliament's debate. We in the Commission, as well as in the group, are going to meet with business representatives, coalition partners and each other in order to discuss these issues very seriously. The opposition is evil. I kind of understand that. However, I can assure you that the coalition will not commit a social crime, as you can hear from time to time, and even though it may look like that if you listen to this debate here. We will look at the budget in the future in the long term than we do now and, at the price of the budget deficit, there will be an opportunity to make additional investments, if necessary, rather than to cover running costs. Investments come from national defence, broadband networks, roads, train traffic. But we know that among these changes are ideas which are being discussed without regard to the borders of the traditional coalition and opposition. These are, in my opinion, the fact that we no longer consider employee options as special advantages when an investor buys the whole company, as well as compensation for the transport and accommodation costs of employees, if these costs are justified by the company, as well as the creation of an entrepreneurial account. The first reading of the latest draft is behind us. I think that, without greater passions, a solution can also be found to reduce the taxation of dividends from mature companies to 14%. The IRL Group supports the completion of the first reading of these drafts, but, as I said, we are ready to continue this debate and the debate on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U617	There is no further wish for negotiations. The proposal of the Monetary Commission is to conclude the first reading, but the Free Party Group, the Reform Party Group and the Estonian Conservative Party Group have proposed to reject the draft 460 at first reading. We need to vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal of the Free Party Group, the Reform Party Group and the Conservative People's Party Group 460 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 37 members of the Riigikogu are in favour of the proposal, against 49. The proposal was not supported. First reading of Bill 460 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments on 31 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U618	Now begins the first reading of the Bill 457 of the Law on Sweet Drink Tax initiated by the Government of the Republic. The initiating waitress, Secretary of Finance Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U619	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Glad to see that... so many members are in the hall. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] You've got the bill for the sweet drink tax bill before you. Health studies, including those of the Ministry of Social Affairs, R&D&I, as well as those of the European WHO, were being developed. The conclusions drawn from these studies are worrying and require attention. In Estonia, obesity is one of the highest in comparison with other EU Member States. This is accompanied by the rapid spread of diseases associated with over-consumption of sugar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U620	Honourable Riigikogu and MP Sults, please do not disturb the waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U621	The role is also played by the fact that processed energy-rich food is cheap and available in terms of energy content and price. This also applies to sugar-sweetened drinks. The health protection objective pursued by the introduction of this tax involves directing economic operators towards the production of beverages with a lower sugar and sweetener content and influencing the consumer to make sustainable choices. The introduction of a sweet drink tax is both a protection of health and a fiscal objective. The liver brings about a change in the price of sweetened drinks, affecting consumers and producers at the same time. It also raises public awareness of the health effects of sugar. The tax rates provided for in the draft act depend on sugar content in order to encourage producers to use less sugar in their products and to influence consumer health behaviour in a positive way. With a limit of EUR 0,1 per litre of drink, the sweetener and sugar content shall be subject to a charge of between 5 and 8 grams per 100 millilitres. Where a drink contains more than 8 grams of sugar per 100 ml of drink, it shall be taxed at EUR 0,3 per litre. Where a beverage contains both sweetener and more than 5 grams of sugar per 100 ml, it shall be taxed on the sugar content. The draft does not necessarily support the switch from sugar to sweetener when the drinks are sweetened. The sweet matter content is always taxed, whereas in the case of a beverage sweetened with sugar, the levy may be released at all if the sugar is less than 5 grams per 100 ml. The tax treatment of sweet matter also takes into account the fact that sweeteners have a daily safe intake and that their health effects have not been sufficiently studied. In response to the wishes of the producers, a two-year transitional period has been introduced for the taxation of drinks with a higher sugar content. During 2018, those drinks containing 10 or more grams of sugar per 100 ml and those containing 9 or more grams of sugar shall be taxed at a higher rate during 2019. From 2020 onwards, the final rate to be charged at a higher rate of 8 grams of sugar per 100 ml of drink will apply. The aim of the transitional period is to give producers time to change recipes and consumers the opportunity to get used to new flavors. Fruit and vegetables to which no sugar or sweeteners have been added shall be subject to an authorisation to grant State aid and shall not be subject to any tax as from the date of authorisation. The application is being prepared and submitted by the Ministry of Finance to the European Commission in May. The objective of the exemption is to ensure that healthy alternatives are still available to the consumer. The juice has largely preserved the nutritional value of the raw materials and has a high biovalue. Now look at the exceptions contained in the draft. Sweetened beverages used in production in the course of an economic or professional activity shall not be subject to taxation. Understandably, these drinks do not become available to the consumer in their original form or fall within the scope of the law as a raw material for production. Thus, sweetened beverages used in the production of other sweetened beverages, food, medicines and alcohol are not taxed. Sweetened drinks brought to Estonia for the personal consumption of travellers shall not be taxed. No levy shall be levied on sweetened beverages which are manufactured locally in retail outlets and are intended for immediate consumption. Similarly, sweetened drinks delivered outside Estonia are not taxed in economic and professional activities. The estimated tax revenue under the draft is EUR 15 million in 2018, EUR 16 million in 2019 and EUR 17 million in 2020. The draft is planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U622	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U623	Thank you. I will start by referring to the previous debate on packaging excise duty, where we have counted that the government wants to start six new taxes in Estonia, and where you indicated that you have eight steps for economic growth. In the meantime, we consulted the group and found that almost ten taxes actually come together. If we add progressive income tax, gas excise, alcohol and tobacco excise, we will soon receive ten tax increases that the government has either enforced or enforced. But if you come to the sweet tax, it will affect the circa 5% of all Estonian sugar consumption or people's so-called sugar habits. And I think that education and information are much better than the new tax you want to apply to juices and soft drinks to guide people's behaviour. How do you prove that, at the expense of such a small proportion of sugar consumption, you will achieve the goal of making Estonian people eat and run healthier, consume?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U624	Thank you. When you mentioned different taxes in the introduction to your question, I was inspired in the meantime, and I could make the eight even bigger. If we were talking earlier about eight steps in support of entrepreneurship and you gave different examples here, I could add an increase in diesel excise duty and tax-free minimum to EUR 500, which will certainly help business. And I don't think we should be ashamed to cancel the increase in VAT for hotels. So we've already reached 11 steps, so let's see it again next break. But as far as your question is concerned, if this is such a small proportion, why should we pay attention to it, I think that the answer is this: now the consumer, and this has been pointed out by the Ministry of Social Affairs several times, in fact, it is not felt that drinking a sweetened drink gives additional calorie. He doesn't feel full of it, and he doesn't think it's a potential meal. I'm not a health expert, but I can talk about the information gaps and the information that experts have brought to the table. And that is one of the most important reasons why we must also pay attention to sweetened beverages, so that the consumer can understand and become aware that the resulting calorie is completely available and, in fact, comparable to a meal in terms of energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U625	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U626	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Minister, you're bringing out that your goal is healthy behavior. However, there is no intention to develop, which would prove that this measure really gives us a healthier way of life. If you claim that this is in the interests of a healthy lifestyle, what do you really consider to be social cost savings for the state if this measure really produces fruit? I have read from the analysis that the aim is to influence the purchasing habits of a poorer population with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U627	Thank you. No, the aim is to reduce the sugar content in sweetened beverages. And if you notice, the fiscal policy decisions that result from it also have exactly that objective. The lower the sugar content in a particular beverage, the lower the impact of the fiscal policy decision. Not to mention the fact that no tax has been paid on 0 to 5 grams of sugar per 100 ml of sugar in a particular beverage. As regards the ITC from which you started, as well as communication with all parties, it is part of the government action programme and the draft has actually been discussed with all parties during this period and more than once. If you also note the debate that has been in society, it has been comprehensive and discussed with the various parties. I see it... or what I have seen, the coalition has also seen that, in principle, this draft could have the power of law from 1 January next year. And I think that this is a good place and an opportunity, at Parliament level, to hold these debates, to see whether the draft fulfils the objective or should change something. We can still base today on the analyses that already exist. And as I mentioned at the outset in my introductory statement, these analyses have been carried out quite a number of times: at international, WHO level, but also at the Estonian National Institute for Health Development.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U628	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U629	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, In Estonia, our northern neighbours have always been set as role models for Finns, taken from them. We have even been looking for Estonian Nokia in economic and artistic rhetoric. However, Finland has also been a'sugar tax', and now steps are being taken to eliminate it because it is convinced that it does not meet its objectives, is pointless and is rather detrimental to the economy. Why do we not now learn from our great examples, from our northern neighbours Finns?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U630	Thank you. You must have some outdated data. I would rather say that, if we really look at the nearest neighbour, Finland has made an even stronger tax policy decision on drinks. Finland taxes not only sweetened drinks, but also ordinary water, which we will of course not do.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U631	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U632	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! On page 21 of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, it is quite clear that the tax may have a negative effect on Estonia's trade in border areas: these drinks are going to be bought in other countries, in our case to Latvia. Here is an example of Denmark, where the share of border trade increased to 37% of the total consumption of soft drinks. The same effect on alcohol duty you have already increased several times. I recall that once we were in a TV studio together, and you said that you and the Latvian Minister were trying to get things so far that they would apply the same excise policy. Well, that hasn't been the case, the border trade is booming in Apes, Iklas, Valgas. Now, in the case of soda tax, are you also trying to harmonise the Latvians to set it up? And how have you ever been able to restrict and control border trade?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U633	Thank you. I will start from a distance on your question of how we have managed to contain or limit it. I would say that border trade has exactly responded to what we have expected. We can talk about alcohol duty today because there is no excise duty on sweetened beverages yet. Moreover, in the spring, when the country's budget strategy was drawn up, macro-experts adjusted the receipts of alcohol excise duties to a higher level. They had rather been conservative. What do I mean by that? When we look at the receipts from excise goods in the state budget, we see that they have been obtained according to expert analysis. Border trade in the order of 5 to 6% is fully accounted for in the case of alcohol, and we can see that this is exactly what has been happening, rather a little less. As far as tax policy decisions in other countries are concerned, each country is, of course, sovereign in its tax policy decisions. No one can impose anything on anyone; other countries cannot interfere with national policies. By the way, since we can talk today about a change in excise duty, which has already entered into force, Lithuania has just raised excise duty on alcohol, beer excise duty at more than 100%. So I think it gives Latvia the opportunity to make changes to its excise policy, if necessary, if it is to be used. But this is, of course, the internal desire or task of each country itself. And if you are asking whether this price of sweetened drinks in the current example can in any way affect border trade, then surely a slight increase in border trade will be accompanied by this tax increase, whatever the case may be. But we don't see it as an increase that's going to cause a budget gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U634	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U635	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! This bill has been brought to us here as an urgent one and, as has already been said, without any intention of being developed. The intention to develop is precisely where different measures are actually analysed to solve the problems we face, such as public health, obesity and obesity. Since this has not been done, there is no certainty that this is the sweetest measure. It may be necessary to talk about sweets, bakery products or that Estonians have little movement or too much dependence on gambling, computers and so on. Can you tell me what made this bill so urgent that we did not consider alternatives and you came up with just one solution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U636	Thank you. Look, we were just talking about package excise, and there was no question. Since there were VTKs and the process had been longer, this question did not come up. I'll do it right here. I answered once, but I'm gonna answer one more time, there's no question at all. This is part of the government action programme under the Coalition Agreement. And this bill has been discussed with all parties during this period, essentially during the last six months, when a new coalition was formed since November. It is certainly our desire to hold a parliamentary debate on these issues and to allow Parliament to decide as well. The analyses that have been carried out will contribute, which is the basis and the basis, in order to arrive at the conclusion that one or the other dimension and measure serve the purpose of this particular draft. I think that the design of this draft itself, where really a lower level, i.e. zero to five grams of sugar per 100 millilitres, has not been taxed at all, is, in fact, a very important signal to target both producers in the production of their products and consumer health behaviour due to the impact of lower sugar content on health.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U637	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U638	Thank you. Mr. waitress, you said this liver fights obesity. As a nutrition specialist, you certainly know that, apart from these sodas giving only 5% of the sugars they consume, sugars are only part of carbohydrates, all carbohydrates eventually decompose into monosugars, and carbohydrates give more than twice as much calories as fats, for example, being one of the three main sources of energy. Tell me how hard you're actually fighting this obesity right now. How many percent of calories will a person continue to consume less when this tax is introduced? How much does this affect consumption? And even if the sodas stop, how much is that diet?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U639	Thank you for your question. Very constructive issues, which will certainly contribute to an understanding of what the purpose of this tax is and what the effect of this tax is. Analyses have shown that a sweetened drink gives about 6% of the daily calorie when it is so-called reasonably consumed. And here's the question as to whether this percentage level is reasonable in order to bring the sweetened beverage tax into effect. Here, as I said to a previous question, it is certainly important to make the consumer aware that a sweetened drink is by its very nature not a meal. It gives you calorie on the one hand, but on the other, you don't feel full and the consumer isn't healthy. I have to admit, I'm not a health professional. Thank you for putting it so nicely! I'm sure we have health professionals who do. And health professionals have said that consumers are rather being directed to drink water and eat healthy food. Such direction is in fact in the interest of the same calorie.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U640	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U641	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Walking around Estonia has been happy to see that natural fruit juices have been produced in different regions. For example, the Urvaste Village Society produces the Ubina Curtsu. And I understand that it is precisely for these products that you are applying for a State aid authorisation from the European Commission. If this request is made in May, as you said, then what do you expect, how long would this response from the European Commission take? And if that answer is no, what are your next moves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U642	Thank you. When we talk about the perspective, I think we'll get this feedback in a couple of months. I think that's how you asked me. Of course, it can be longer. But we're hoping it'll come in a few months. You have said very rightly, I share this opinion with you: in this example, we are going to apply for a state aid permit and we hope that natural juices will not really be taxed on this potential tax. And if there is no State aid authorisation, the application does not go positively, then they are taxed. An analogous example is, by the way, the road user charge, when Estonia also proposed that it be from 12 tonnes, and applied for a separate State aid permit so that 3,5 to 12 tonnes would not be taxed at the road user fee. The European Union has not authorised this and will have to pay at 3.5 tonnes. But at least we're doing an experiment to get the situation that these juices don't have to be taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U643	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U644	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very honourable Minister! This is not the subject of this draft, but since you mentioned it, I would say that, as far as I know, the Government of the Republic has not, however, made a formal request for the application of road user charges to vehicles with a maximum mass of 12 tonnes. An opinion has been requested from the European Transport Commissioner, but this is not a formal request. But now my question. Under European Union law, however, taxation must not be arbitrary, that some products are taxed and other products are excluded. It confers an undue competitive advantage on others and may also constitute prohibited State aid. Let me give you a particular example: yogurts. I used to like yogurts a lot, too. I thought they were crazy good, very healthy, and then at one point I realized how much sugar there really is in there. And then I realized why I liked them so well. How is it justified that you have made such a very narrow choice? If the goal is still good health, it could have been much wider. Isn't there any signs of rush? And would it still not be wise to read a second reading when we get there, to interrupt, waiting for the European Commission's opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U645	There were quite a few questions. Thank you for these questions. I will try to answer these questions in turn, if possible. First of all, state aid. The thing about state aid is that, since we do not know what the answer to our application for a State aid permit will eventually be, we will, of course, have to deal with everything, including natural juices, in the first stage, so that they have not yet been authorised for State aid. It's natural. Now the question of possible products, as you said, for example, yogurt. Why is one position inside, the other position isn't? The annex to the same draft law also contains a table containing the "CN headings" taken from the Customs Act to which or to which sweetened drinks belong. There is a well-defined tool for statistics and classification of goods, by which it can be defined that this product falls under this classification and that product does not go under this classification. It gives a detailed overview of what is in one position and another. Experts have also worked to review the draft law precisely in the context that, if we are going to apply for a State aid authorisation in relation to natural juices, is there a potential risk of state aid on the issue you are currently raising? At the moment, the experts have a clear view that this example is not a possible case of State aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U646	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U647	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of May, a number of scientific publications published an article on 6500 Danish health research into the causes of heart disease. A study by a researcher at the University of Copenhagen also revealed an interesting fact that people have a greater need for sweetness in the presence of a certain variety of genes. And there's also some preliminary information that some people can actually eat more sugar without their body mass index growing for this reason. Why, however, is the health-promoting justification of this sugar tax very one-sided in the draft text only said that sugar makes it thick and that is why it is reasonable to tax it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U648	Thank you. But it's not really one-sided. If you look at the explanatory memorandum to the bill, which contains a more detailed overview of the amendments to this law, you will already see that the amount of carbohydrates and the whole side that relates to health is one of the most important reasons. You pointed it out earlier for the analysis. By the way, the Association of Estonian Championship Drinks has stated in its opinion letter that drink manufacturers are already working to reduce sugar content, and they have reduced it by 12% over the course of 17 years. In this sense, I think it is in everyone's interest to pay attention to the fact that there is less sugar in products. And one interesting example, which is also the reality, is that if you buy a bottle of Sprite, by the way, and this information is on the official website of Coca-Cola in Finland, there are 6.6 grams of sugar per 100 milliliters. If you buy the same Sprite in Estonia, it has 10.2 grams of sugar per 100 ml. Both are the same Sprite (see the official Coca-Cola page). I think that is also one answer to whether sugar tax already works somewhere and is being worked for it. These numbers now went all verbatim and I have no reason to doubt that the information that various experts have given me is correct and adequate. This is one example of the same product in neighbouring countries: one has 6.6 grams of sugar, the other has 10.2 grams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U649	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U650	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! The same soft drink producer association itself, of course, does not work very well on these solutions that you have proposed. And they say the National Institute for Health Development has also said that according to a population diet survey, this percentage is only 1.5. You mentioned 6% of the daily calorie here, but they refer to a research on R&D&I that says 1.5% of the daily calorie. But it's just a question of the accuracy of the fact, which I'm sure can be verified. My question, however, is rather fundamental. If we take the sweet tax, we will see today that the government has done it without intention and without proper impact analysis. Your own party partner Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, has repeatedly stressed the importance of the existence of plans to develop and impact assessments. How do you still justify that you come before us without any impact analysis, put a big tax increase here and justify it again with a health aspect that is not really true?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U651	Thank you. I will answer for the third time today, and I have no problem answering the fifth time exactly the same question as asking me how and why we are moving forward without the intention of being developed. I would like to stress that I would like to say again to the next questioner that I have no problem at all. Once again, this bill has already been dealt with, perhaps six months has been said a lot, but one three or four months and until the fact that there have been public debates in different media spaces. In addition to the public debates, working groups have been set up with those parties that are more or less affected. There have already been analyses based on the specific legislation that we have on the table today. And, of course, there is still a parliamentary debate that will live its life in the near future with its three readings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U652	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U653	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! Without any doubt, this tax reduces the competitiveness of the Estonian food industry. Not only will it become more expensive, but it will lead to bureaucracy. The concept of'sweetened drinks tax' included in the explanatory memorandum suggests that the reasons for non-compliance may be ignorance, negligence, recklessness or willfulness and therefore it is very important to develop strategies and systems to reduce non-compliance with the law, such as registration and licences of producers, exporters, importers, monitoring of products, use of tax stamps or auditing of accounts. What kind of systems are you going to use?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U654	Thank you. Yes, of course, our ultimate goal is to make the system work, which is why the draft law is essentially called into practice, the logic of reducing sugar. And I can assure you that the implementation of the law will be based on a complex set of lists in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. everything, from awareness, notification to possible future monitoring. In fact, it is a complex approach to all changes. As far as other countries are concerned, I think we should do the same. Estonia is not at the forefront of this issue, fortunately or unfortunately, I cannot even say. In itself, when we talk about sweetened drinks or sweetened products, this tax applies in many European Member States. Also with our closest neighbours. While we were talking about Finland before, there is also a tax on sweetened products in Latvia, as well as in Belgium, France, Hungary, ten OECD countries. It has been decided that the levy will also apply to sweetened drinks or sweetened products in Great Britain and Ireland as of next year, 2018. In itself, paying more and more attention to sugar content is not an Estonian phenomenon. This is increasingly the subject of attention across Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U655	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U656	Mr President! Dear Minister, There is a very bold statement in the explanatory memorandum that the sweetened beverage tax measure affects the increasing problem of overweight and obesity in children and adolescents. At the same time, we have a lot of research to say that, in fact, our most serious problem is that we are moving a little. Children also move little. Where, in this five or six months, will the right be taken to claim such a very fundamental matter while our scientific groups are still looking for a solution? Where do you have those special smart guys who dare to say so clearly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U657	Thank you. I always wonder, on these questions, whether it is anyone's interest not to reduce sugar consumption, for example, when dealing with the current draft. One very simple example is the same as the one I brought to you earlier: in this unfortunate Sprite, which is over-cool, we don't have a double difference, but it's 6.6 and 10.2 grams per 100 milliliters. This is a good example of how tax works in one place and there is no tax in another place. But let's talk about the reasons for the analysis, let's not just look at a specific product group that actually gives us a primary signal. As I mentioned earlier, it is perhaps wrong to say that it is ideological to have done an in-depth analysis, more in-depthly gone to the Ministry of Social Affairs with its experts who have given us, the Ministry of Finance, an input. TAI, the National Institute for Health Development has carried out a separate analysis, not to mention those world-class analyses that have been carried out more than once. These are, in fact, the bases that give us the opportunity to claim this. And we also see that this behavioral feature in other countries has led people to take less sugar.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U658	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U659	Thank you. Good minister! I have always believed that this is about educating and raising people's awareness rather than raising taxes or creating any additional restrictions, but that is it. My question concerns a part of your draft, which I believe is unregulated. Yes, I understand that your bill concerns drinks, leaving aside other products, but there are also, for example, drinking powders, sports drink powders. They're sold at the store, I can mix them with water, and there's gonna be exactly the same drink I can buy off the shelf with a bottle. In the future, I understand, there will be a price difference between them. How do you comment on this, and do you intend to resolve this contradiction in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U660	Thank you. We are talking today about a tax on sweetened beverages. We base our focus on taxation related to liquids, or sweetened beverages, we do not tax solids. To put it simply, if you soak a cookie in water and you get a messy liquid with a clear sugar in it, you don't tax that cookie. I'm sorry about this example, but it's still a purely liquid-based liver.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U661	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U662	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I do not understand the logic on which you do not want to pay attention to the issues of colleagues that point to a very clear point: if the consumption of sweetened beverages gives 1.5% of the daily calorie or 5% in sugar terms, then the effectiveness of this tax is actually close to zero. I don't understand why you're so awfully ignoring it. We could say that the impact of the fiscal element and the government's desire is 95% and that the share of health behaviour is 5%. But even worse, you do not even trust your presidential candidate Jõks, who currently represents producers in order to sue the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U663	Thank you. I wonder how that question was. Why don't I think there was a question I should find the answer to right now? I think so, of course I do. I believe in the analyses carried out in the Ministry of Social Affairs and elsewhere in the world, which show that producers, but also consumers, are changing their behaviour with regard to the taxation of sweetened beverages. I believe so! Moreover, during the drafting of this same bill, a rather decent level of elasticity was taken as a basis. Perhaps it has been assumed that in the near future, in the coming years, producers will move the sugar content to a lower level than the eight, from the fifth to the eighth. We have assumed that there would be a behavioural change in the case of producers, from there to consumers. The best example was the same example of Finland that I gave you. So I think so! I think it's working.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U664	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U665	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, When we prepared this draft for the first reading in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I asked if the Ministry of Finance had already submitted an application to the European Commission for the exemption of juices from the levy on sweetened beverages, as you have a big plan. And I also asked for the text of this application. This was not provided, and I realised that when this hearing was held, this request was not yet complete. I ask if this application is ready for today and if it has been submitted. And if it's not filed, what is it? Why is this request so long? Is the legal confusion and suspension in the Ministry so great that it cannot be written for several weeks?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U666	Thank you. Relax, take a deep breath! We have a good debate and I'm trying to answer all your questions. There were quite a few questions, and I'm trying to sum it up nicely. State aid issues and the application for authorisation of this State aid are dealt with by the Ministry of Finance. And we are practically in the final line with the informal communication documents. Of course, before we make a request to Europe, this request must be clearly argued and justified. We need to put in all the additional information the Ministry of Social Affairs has given us. And a true story, as I have stated, we will also send a formal application for State aid to Europe in the near future, i.e. at the end of May at the latest. At the moment we hand it in to Europe, Mr Sõerd, we will send it to you as well. Maybe not on the same day, but on the next few days. It's going into the verbatim now, and we're going to put an application on your way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U667	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U668	Thank you. Good minister! You always say the same question will come, but therefore the hall has not been answered. Maybe you should answer more specifically then, not so round. You said that this taxation is not intended to replace sugar with sweetener. However, food industry operators have specifically promised to do so. Studies say that the introduction of a sweet tax has not produced any positive results from the public health perspective of other countries, as cheaper and less quality alternatives will be sought. You also mentioned that export production would not be taxed and you replied to Lauri Luige that other solids would not be taxed. It can still be concluded that it is not really a tax made for the purpose of promoting health. In short, the scheme for the taxation of sweeteners is uneven, systemless and does not appear to be a struggle against evil as such. Although you did not like Milling's proposal or talk about Finland, it is now prohibited to sweeten Finland in early 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U669	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U670	Question: why are you confused? Why are you talking about public health? You could say calmly that this draft is only for fiscal purposes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U671	Thank you. I'm certainly not the person here today who says whose question you like or not like. The questioners have the right to ask all the questions and I hope that they will come together with this particular draft. Some of the questions, as we can see from the past, have not gone. I don't think it's a twilight, on the contrary. We have pointed out, on several occasions today, in the example of Finland, what the behaviour of producers has actually become for the same product we talked about earlier. I do not think there is anything to be ashamed of, that you, Mr Milling, have given this Finnish example in your question. I think that's a good example. This example of Finland is a good example where the exact same product has been taxed at a lower sugar tax, and there is nothing to be ashamed of. No, I'm not ashamed of it. And you also brought in the fiscal side with your question. You said you shouldn't be ashamed to talk about fiscal matters. Absolutely not ashamed! I said this earlier in the case of packaging excise duty, and I am also saying that this is clearly a change in tax policy towards lowering labour taxes, transferring it to consumption, vices and the environment. Of course, there's nothing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U672	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U673	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I have to be honest with you, when I hear this talk about how cooking a cookie doesn't go under tax, it makes me drink. We've had a lot of talk here today about how we fight the fat guys. But we all realize that we don't fight fat people, we just collect money out of people's pockets, and that's one effective way to collect money. That's how everyone gets it. But I don't think that's even the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that we still have a government that's too fat, not people. And the government keeps hogging more people's pockets to get fatter. I must honestly say that it is insulting to me, as a free, responsible, mature, adequate citizen, that we have ministers and officials who think they are so smart that they can come to say what I can drink, what I can't drink and what I have to pay a fine for. I ask a simple question: if our people are so awfully stupid that ministers have to tell them what they can drink, how can such wise ministers come from this awfully stupid nation that they know what we can drink?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U674	Thank you. I was wondering if you would finally get to migration and refugees with your question. It is quite surprising that the EKRE is not able to reach refugees with a sweet tax, but I think you will also get to that with one of the next questions. So I was wondering if you'd make it to the refugees or not, but you didn't. You know, I think it's on your conscience. On your conscience, you're labeling the crowd as a fool. I never said that, and I'm not going to say that. I think that's the line on your conscience. The purpose of this bill is to direct producers to place less sugar in their products that is the primary idea of this legislation. The secondary idea is to make consumers more aware of the choice of products with lower sugar content. And the third point is a fiscal idea. I don't think we need to be ashamed of it today, and we don't have to admit that nobody's stupid, absolutely not! Why? What for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U675	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U676	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance, I'd like the Minister to be smart too. On the first question, I was trying to find out how many calories the consumer's percentage saves with a soda tax, and you said 6%. That is certainly not true. According to various data, about 5 to 6% of sugar falls into a soda account, i.e. you were wrong in size. These are the things that the Minister should respond to in his sleep when it comes to measures. The next question is who is going to pay this tax on a profit scale. Where does this burden fall?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U677	Thank you. There is certainly a great deal to be played here by someone who consumes one or more products in particular, and what will be the consumption of products in the case of consumers' decillies as such. In our vision, the importance of consumption is focused on a lower decile. If we look at how many drinks are actually bought and what kind of consumption is going to be for one decile or another, I think the biggest focus is on the lower decile.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U678	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U679	Thank you very much. Reading the draft and listening to you, I understand that the purpose of this tax is primarily to encourage producers to put less sugar in drinks. However, according to this draft, you are also taxing natural juices in the worst case scenario. And now I'm asking about this request for state aid. Do you have any precedents for another country? Has any other country received a State aid authorisation for a similar derogation? Or how much do you consider it likely that the European Commission will grant this exception?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U680	Thank you. Countries have different approaches to taxation. True story, some have taxed drinks, some have taxed products, some have, as I pointed out earlier in the example of Finland, taxed when there is no sugar in it. Indeed, different countries have different levels. If you're interested, we can bring it out separately for different countries. We have a tax on our own designed sweet drinks, the main goal of which is that there is no tax at all up to 0 to 5 grams. This is very important, it is considered to be "healthy" for up to 5 grams of sugar per 100 millilitres. We really do follow this logic and assume that we will get this State aid authorisation. But, of course, to sum up, it is up to the European Commission to decide whether or not it will grant this authorisation. At least we're going to apply for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U681	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U682	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will read the explanatory memorandum and here we have taken on a very daring goal of the consumption of taxed products, which will decrease by 24% as early as the first year. That's what I'd like to hear, what's that number in 2019? I personally seriously doubt that. The second question is this: have you also examined how to replace those drinks that are not purchased? I don't think they buy botas or sweats for it, it'll probably be replaced by other groceries. Could it be healthier? And maybe we can also talk about whether there are studies that sugar consumption has also increased with the introduction of sweet tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U683	Thank you. I'd even give you a correction: not 24, 27%. In itself, it is concluded that this tax will reduce consumption by 27%. And this is based on UNESCO, which represents European producers of non-alcoholic beverages, and Euromonitor statistics. According to the basis, the increase in the price added to the levy is calculated by product type, taking into account also the sugar content of the product, the commercial margin, the VAT and the price elasticity of the change. Consequently, it is concluded that this tax will even reduce consumption by 27%. And we have no reason to believe that these data are not adequate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U684	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U685	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will continue with the question of Toomas Kivimägi in some ways. Indeed, there are studies that show that the so-called soda tax has slightly reduced consumption. At the same time, there is no comparative study of how the reduction in the consumption of sweet soft drinks affects the consumption of sugar and other sweet foods, including jams, yogurts, biscuits and, by the way, beer. The critics of the sugar tax are also worth listening to. Of course, after that, somebody's about to stop eating sugar. But the critics of the sugar tax have called the taxation of sugar-containing products a patronizing, regressive and so-called "nanny state tax." I ask you this: are you willing to consider postponing or withdrawing this tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U686	Thank you. The question is what is the purpose of one or the other tax and why one or the other tax has been put into effect. And that's where we actually get the answer to whether we're ready to introduce this tax, whether or not it serves that purpose. I think here's the question. If we are based on the fact that its primary aim is to reduce sugar content in products, I think we have already taken a step forward. And if we proceed from this, I see no reason why we should delay or not enforce the enforcement of this bill anywhere in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U687	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U688	Thank you. There is so much to ask and so little time to answer and other questions can't ask. But I also looked at the latest news and see that Estonia has the highest inflation rate in Europe in April 3.6%. Doesn't it seem to you that by introducing this tax, first, you are pouring gas into a burning fire? Price increases, as we know, are hitting the low earners most of all you want to help. And secondly, doesn't it seem to you that with this tax you're screwing up in the sense that certain sectors are getting, like, a triple increase? First, an increase in excise duty, second, a tax on packaging, if you call it excise duty, and now, third, a sweeter one (tax on sweetened beverages plus transport, etc.). You are hurting certain sectors very, very much. What are you gonna tell them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U689	Thank you. I remember asking the same question when you and I were in the coalition and talking about the increase in diesel excise duty. And then this coalition was asked if you wouldn't think that the increase in diesel excise would kill Estonian business and why it would be done. I will be honest with you that we are thinking of stopping the increase in diesel excise duty in 2018. Yes, we do! Still thinkin', of course we do. We didn't mean maybe a year ago, but now we are. And I think that's a good point. A good point, in particular, in order to focus attention on consumption, health and the environment, as has already been said several times today in tax policy. This is one of those drafts that brings attention to health. I think it's very sensible to have labour taxes down, health-related things up. This is a very sensible change in the tax structure. Ask Jürgen Ligi. I think he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U690	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. The government coalition fights so-called vices, fights to make consumption more taxed. But one of the vices is dry alcohol, by the way. Hasn't Mr. Ossinovski proposed taxing, for example, X2204 (or taking another number with an x), our representative drinks, such as Kannu Kukk or Vana Tallinn, which is also a 'Finland 100' drink? Didn't he do anything to ease and tax more vices?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U692	Thank you. I would not even focus the question on a particular minister, Mr Ossinovski. I'd like to look at the wider picture of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs has reviewed the principles relating to this draft, both in the nomenclature and in its operation, i.e. why one or the other tax is introduced. I've also said here before that I certainly can't consider myself a strong health expert. But I'll take the best knowledge the experts have. True story, as you yourself mentioned in your question, alcohol has already been taxed on alcohol duty.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U693	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U694	Thank you. I come back to my first question. I thought I asked a specific question. Isostar powder is sold in the store, along with Isostar drink on the side shelf. In the future, when your liver comes into force, the powder I can mix at home with water, getting exactly the same product that's in the bottle next to the store, is cheaper. How do you comment on this side? You said something about dissolving cookies in water that I haven't gotten to in my young age. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U695	True story, young man. Older people remember how it was done. But that, of course, doesn't matter to the current bill. As I said before, we are really taxing sweetened beverages, i.e. liquid substances, and paying attention to this. If you sense during the procedure of this bill that we should expand the nomenclature, bring in possible powders and also solid products, then you have the possibility of such a proposal. Right now, we have really focused on liquids and just sweetened liquid drinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U696	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U697	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I did not want to ask you, with my previous question, whether you believe in Finland. I wanted to ask whether you are of the same opinion as your presidential candidate, who you very much believed in and who might have become the President of the Republic of Estonia. By the way, Finland is not a very good example of alcohol. You have given Finland a lot of examples, but their average consumption is not exemplary in a wider context. Do you understand what the honourable Members' problem is? The problem is that what you report is extremely hypocritical. If you were ready to go to one upper secondary school class, for example, and talk about how the 5% sugar in the drink can improve public health very much, it would not actually be true. You can't even describe how many people's health figures are improving and at what cost they are improving. Drinkers have already reduced the tax without the State having introduced...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U698	It makes sense to ask a question now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U699	The question is that it is hypocritical. Why do you not show that this is not effective, but is a pure fiscal project?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U700	Thank you. During this minute, you put so many things together in your question, starting with the presidential candidate, and finally reaching the point of hypocrisy and efficiency, that I am thinking now of where to start the answer and how to convey to you all the thoughts that came with the structure of this issue. I'll leave the presidential candidate aside, because I don't think it matters right now, we're still talking about the sweet drink tax. I think that efficiency is certainly worth commenting on and thinking about. Is it effective: does it actually contribute to reducing sugar content or not? This is it, I understand what you've been paying attention to. If we consume a certain calorie a day as sweetened beverages, then the question for us is how much sugar we get out of it. And I think the answer to the question of whether or not sugar content in our drinks is the same as what I told you earlier. The answer to the question about the same Finland, which you have also mentioned as an example, says it. In one place, the sugar content per 100 ml has been reduced considerably lower than in Estonia, where there is no tax. That's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U701	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U702	Thank you. Good minister! You consistently claim that the sugar tax is a health tax. Let's assume that's true. That's why I'm asking you what the difference is between a cook cola and a cook col, that's what this coke is made and sold at fast-food places, and a cook col, which is made at a factory and sold at a store.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U703	Thank you. I think we could expand this issue. It's not even a question of what the difference is between a coke and a coke. Coke is most likely not made at the fair, and the fair is made of other drinks. The logic of this question is correct. I haven't heard of it yet, really, Coca-Cola had to have some secret recipes, if you specifically talk about it at the fairground. If you're asking me what's the difference between a product sold at a store and a drink made at a retail outlet, then both have sugar in it. The difference, however, is that it is then a sweetened beverage sold to the consumer at meals, shops or fairs, which is intended to be used on the spot, a locally manufactured beverage does not have a major effect in the sense that it is produced for sale in larger quantities on a daily basis. It is certainly very important that, when such small quantities of sugar are determined, the administrative burden and the proportions that we have talked about in the past will be at stake. And we also gave an example, if you remember, in an earlier discussion that the IRS could potentially be at a restaurant's office. The turnover of this cash register would increase on that day, in comparison with previous times. This question of proportions will play a role and will certainly lead to a greater administrative burden. And given the proportion of the formula for determining the sugar content of a small quantity produced at a particular fair, it certainly does not justify itself. Consequently, the local fair or, in the case of a sweetened beverage made at a diner, does not have the purpose of taxing it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U704	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. On the previous point, there was talk about the impact of the Packaging Act on the state budget of about 15 to 20 million. But what effect will this bill currently being discussed have if it can be established as a law? Here's another way to get this number. Otherwise, we only talk about how perfect and good it is to improve our health, but we're still talking about money numbers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U706	Still, how could you not talk to the Minister of Finance about the money numbers? All those members of the Riigikogu who were in the Chamber while the Minister of Finance made his introductory speech noticed that before he said that thank you for your attention, he said a few more sentences. And these sentences were such that we forecast a tax revenue of EUR 15 million in 2018, EUR 16 million in 2019 and EUR 17 million in 2020. So it was also mentioned in my introductory speech, but it's a good thing we went over it now. And if you ask why this number is going to increase, if we actually want to reduce it, it's going to be linked to the transitional provisions. This is certainly important to note that the transitional provisions are 10 grams, 9 grams and 8 grams. So we're talking 15, 16 and 17 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U707	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U708	Thank you. Good minister! I will read the latest news and Mr Seeder, the new chairman of the IRL, promises here that he will enter into meaningful negotiations with coalition partners on various issues, including tax increases, tomorrow. And according to Seeder, the IRL wants amendments to the three first-reading drafts today, including sweet tax. My question: are you sure that you are fighting for the right thing now, or will something change after the coalition partners have been sat down tomorrow and the IRL has nevertheless submitted its terms? Do you know what's coming?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U709	Thank you. We have come to this today on quite a number of drafts. It is interesting that we are moving away from the issue of the taxation of sweetened beverages. We are talking about the worldview of political parties, which, of course, it is very sensible to talk about when we are talking about tax policy changes, and then we are already reaching the chairmen of the political parties and their choices. Let me remind you that we have been debating here today on the subject of confrontations, whether or not confrontations have been intense, in all previous debates in the last two or three hours. You will continue this debate, not by focusing on sweetened beverages, but by transferring it to the question of what is the 'final product' of one or the other possible negotiation, etc. I say to you, as I said before: I think that no draft, which is here in the Riigikogu, has been cut into stone. However, it is never wrong to say that the drafts go out of here without any changes; certainly there are drafts that have come out of the Riigikogu exactly the same, and many of the drafts are subject to changes over time. By the way, in the case of the same subject we are talking about today, the original version of the bill was slightly different, with a slightly higher impact. It is mainly as a result of negotiations with producers that its impact has decreased over time, i.e. today, as one of the previous speakers asked, to a level of EUR 15 million.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U710	Minister, I ask you to understand the members of the Riigikogu, because this topic is even sweeter for them than the draft we are discussing. Uno Kaskpeit, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U711	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You're talking about the danger of sweet drinks and how they make them fat. I've read that bread products are even worse for health and make a lot more people fat. So here's the question: when are you planning on taxing and perhaps even banning bread products?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U712	Thank you. Today we are processing the bill for the sweet drink tax. And the true story, as I pointed out earlier, is that focusing attention on sweetened drinks is mainly caused by people who consume sweetened drinks not to take it as a potential meal. They do not sense a sense of full stomach, no matter what such drinks cause. So we pay our attention to sweetened drinks. We have also stated in the government coalition that we are paying attention to reducing labour taxes and transferring changes to vices, the environment and health-related activities. This specific draft is based on a health perspective.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U713	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U714	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! You have stressed, and you have repeatedly emphasised in the past, that raising the tax-free minimum will significantly improve the lives of people on lower incomes. But the explanatory memorandum to this bill says that it is the low-income people who consume sweetened drinks that consume more. Is it very simply and a bit brutally said that we are dealing with a 'poor people' tax' on this draft? And in order to meet your wishes, do I understand correctly that, along with other low-income people, it is through this tax that the funds spent on them will also be returned to the Estonian state by the refugees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U715	Well, there you go, thank you! It was the Free Party that reached the refugees; the EKRE did not arrive today. I'd say the goal is even greater. And what do I mean by keeping an even higher target or level? That, in fact, our goal is to direct the producers to 0 to 5 grams of sugar per 100 millilitres. Whether this goal will be fulfilled is a separate issue. But if you ask how we are trying to achieve this goal, it is precisely by not taxing zero to five grams of sugar per 100 milliliters at all. On the other hand, we can say today when we are talking about lower incomes, as you say, low-wages, Mr Jürgen Ligi talked about lower incomes, i.e. the same thing, focusing attention on this sector, the true story, we are actually trying to create a situation where there is less than 5 grams of sugar in products, which means there is no tax at all. This, of course, will benefit our health.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U716	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U717	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, your stabs are catchy. I mean that we have not reached the refugees when discussing this issue with our group. So let us briefly touch on this issue as well, and I ask whether there is a plan on the horizon to tax popular and common sweeteners known in the Orient, such as sherbet and parallates. It's such a side question. My real question concerns Helir-Valdor Seeder's claims that the same tax bill we are discussing here today will be reviewed by the government and amended. And my real question is, wouldn't it be fair for you to pick up the phone right now and call the Prime Minister and ask him for permission to withdraw these drafts? We're wasting our time when these drafts come back here in the new six.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U718	Thank you. I'm gonna start with the sherbet and the paranoid the way you started. And I assure you, no one wants to tax the sherbet or the paralytics right now. We are talking about the law on the tax on sweetened beverages, regardless of who eats the sherbet or the parade, he is a refugee or a long-term citizen of the Estonian state. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, as I understand it, we are transferring the sweetened drink from the tax to the Prime Minister and to the speeches. Look, all good suggestions for improving the bill are welcome. You too, Mr Helme, if you have any suggestions to make things better. Although you have always said and said that everything that comes from Europe is bad, I say to you, believe me in several European countries, but also in other OECD countries, this tax is already in force, either for sweetened drinks or for different sweetened products. In the coming years, it will come to a number of other countries. Travel around, observe how has been done in other countries, and give a good input into this legislation. I think we will be processing this bill here in the Riigikogu for at least a month. I hope so, at least, given parliamentary practice. So then you can tell us about your knowledge of how to make this particular draft as good as possible if you find that this draft is not good at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U719	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U720	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. We have a good proposal, we are coming right up with a proposal to reject the remote control. You obviously didn't answer my last question. I refuse to go along here with this nose pecking, the debate on grams and decimal places, because this tax is a world-viewed tax. It's a left-wing understanding of things that must be banned, ordered, confiscated. Right-wing and conservative political parties, right-wing and conservative politicians believe in the freedom of entrepreneurs and the freedom of individuals to decide for themselves what they put in their faces or how much they mix together. So, of course, you didn't say that the people of Estonia are stupid. No smart politician is gonna say it. But this whole bill is screaming at us, that you think the people of Estonia are stupid, and you have to take the money away from the fools. I now ask again how such a confiscation, prohibition and commanding bill goes together with a supposedly conservative view of the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U721	Thank you. It seems to me that whoever speaks with a louder voice is a winner. Then I'll try to speak with a louder voice so you can understand better. And I want to tell you that at the moment you raised your question like that, you were not really a proponent of a conservative outlook at all, but a proponent of a liberal outlook. Liberals say that let everyone eat what they want, in their mouths, and in the jungle, only the strongest survive. That's a classic liberal position! I'm sorry if I'm maybe unfair, but right now it seemed like you were putting on a little bit of arsenal for such an expression on the side of liberal and conservative views. But we will come back to tax policy. I'm pulling the voice again. As far as tax policy is concerned, the truth is, I think it is a sensible policy. And a sensible policy is precisely when attention is paid to labour taxes. We have talked about this several times today and several members of the Riigikogu have also asked whether one or the other tax has a fiscal objective. And I have said every time that yes, of course, there is also a fiscal objective. The primary objective is health, the secondary objective is fiscal. So, of course, there is also a fiscal objective. After all, we have been saying that we want to bring labour taxes down and tax health-adverse activities, the environment and consumption further. And this is one of those drafts. You can see that words correspond to actions. It is as if we have forgotten that we have actually pushed labour taxes downwards. We already have this legalised, and now we are legitimising taxes on consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U722	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U723	Thank you. Good waitress! You have a bit of a simplistic idea of a liberal world view, but I don't want to ask you more about that right now. Personally, I still thought that you, as Minister of Finance, were forced to report such drafts, but you have convinced me that you actually like it awfully, and in any case you will push them through. My question is, since there is a new government on the right in the air, whether the introduction of this sugar tax will be a red line for the IRL. In any case, in the case of different governments, do you insist that the sugar tax be introduced, i.e. that it is only then for you that new governments are born?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U724	Thank you. Yeah, well, it's time for the evening, it's already 9:30 a.m., it's clear that we're transferring a sweetened drink from tax to some new government. Let's talk some things through. First you said you were pushing through. I'm not a pusher. We have a parliamentary state and, in summary, you are one of the 101 members who, in this debate, will come to a conclusion as to whether or not he wants to introduce this tax. If you push, you push it through. Next, you brought up the subject of the formation of a right-wing government. I don't know what you mean by that. The coalition agreement is already very right. Look at this coalition treaty! I don't think there's anything to be ashamed of. I remember when I had to fight you because you wanted to buy back the country's railroads, and you bought it, I opposed it. Now I see a completely different direction: we are going to sell state companies. So we have a very right-wing policy. I don't think we have anything to be ashamed of. And the third question is whether one or the other tax is good or bad and what is the position of one or the other person. I remember this issue of the exemption of the land under home, which I have spoken to a good colleague, Jürgen Ligi, more than once in my time. He was the Minister of Finance when he said he didn't want any of this tax, he didn't like it, and so on. I said I think it's a very right, very reasonable tax. If we drive a person away from home with a tax policy, the so-called "homeland" is highly taxed, then this is not the right policy, etc. I think the coalition has agreed to some sort of action. And the coalition is always a compromise place. Some things you like less, some things you like better. If you're asking me if the liver for sweetened drinks was the first thing the IRL put on the table, then no. The first thing the IRL put on the table was an increase in the income tax-free minimum to EUR 500. However, it went much more ambitiously, not only for those with lower wages, but also for those with medium pay, they will receive EUR 500 tax-free.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U725	Dear Riigikogu, we are discussing draft 457. Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U726	Thank you, good manager. Minister, at last! It was good to hear you say frankly: it was IRL who put progressive income tax on the table first. That's the 500 euros and the translation behind what he really is. Let's call it income tax levels, which he really is. But the question is that I think, one few decades ago, during your meaningful presentation, our party partner, Tiina Kangro, arrived in our mailbox. [[In the diner.]] For God's sake, we don't need to know those little details. But your groupmate, Tiina Kangro, said very nicely that there are many more substantive ways of actually solving this problem so that young people consume less sugar. Are you willing to consider these suggestions? And the last thing I'm gonna ask is, where's the money you're gonna collect on this sweet tax?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U727	Thank you. There were quite a few questions, I'm trying to start answering them in turn. The first question was whether I was willing to consider. Yes, of course! I am willing to consider all good suggestions. And what about me? I think we should all be in the debate to make some things better in lawmaking. That's our goal. And, as you can see, we have also made changes over time, as a result of consideration and involvement, which at first glance seem strange and for which some have said that the government seems weak, gives in. I don't think that's a sign of weakness. If you make changes over time that can only make things better, it is not a sign of weakness. On the contrary, it is the ability to take into account the different opinions of all parties involved. So definitely the answer to the question yes, I'm willing to consider. There was something else at the end. I wonder if I answered all your questions. I'm sorry, there was a question of where the money was going. I've said that before, there's no equal sign of one here. It cannot be said that the tax on sweetened drinks will cover one thing or another or, I don't know, construction of the Tallinn-Tartu highway in four lines. They certainly do not have an equal sign between them; they are not indexed to each other. However, your question is rightly placed in this context that our aim is to lower labour taxes and that is a very expensive objective. Raising the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 for people with low and medium pay costs EUR 150 million. If the budget is 150 million, then that 150 million will be left in the hands of somebody, people with low and medium pay. And we have said that we want to pass on the costs of reducing labour taxes to consumption, the environment and vices in the tax structure. I've said it many times, but I'm going to go over it again. Today we are here with one of those drafts where, in fiscal terms, there is no equal sign, but one can say that the costs are passed on from earning to consumption. And the other way around, as I mentioned before, it naturally has an impact on health behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U728	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U729	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! My previous question already pointed out that there are a lot of clear arguments in the explanatory memorandum. It's like a group of people showed up who knows where the cause of obesity is, and who knows how to behave. Here is another argument on which I would like an explanation from you, because these claims have not been convincingly demonstrated at the same time. What is the basis for the argument that this tax motivates producers, businesses to develop new recipes and to bring this sugar content down? Has this count been taken into account? Has this impact and subsequent behaviour been analysed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U730	I'm not going to answer the question, yes, it is. I'll answer a little longer. I'll start by saying yes, it is. As I said before, this is not a first, a unique tax. If Estonia has not seen this tax before, there has been much talk about it in other countries. And as you can see, there will be more and more of these countries in the future. So, in fact, in-depth analyses have been carried out to support this claim that, in summary, such changes in excise policy can lead producers to reduce sugar content. Moreover, the Ministry of Social Affairs has said that in order for something to change, this change must not be 5%, but must be at least 20%. This, too, is an important nuance that, in fact, the price of the product should change by at least 20%, so that the producer starts to move towards lower sugar levels and the consumer will also start to review their consumption patterns. Surely this is an important observation that has come out of the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U731	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U732	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Here, listening to what you said before, I still realized that it is not quite clear to you what right and left is and what liberality and conservatism are. But I don't want to debate it with you, even though my question comes out. It is known that consumption of sweets, such as alcohol or tobacco, is linked to a person's awareness. Sweet consumption is not useful and those who are aware know it. Would it not make sense, however, to place a greater resource on people's awareness of beneficial diets and healthy lifestyles rather than taxing them? Taxes are not the most effective way to achieve the objective. So why have only taxes been chosen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U733	Thank you. I think you're on the right track. I share your view precisely that it is actually necessary to approach it in a complex way. And I fully agree with you that tax policy decisions alone generally do not contribute to the end result. And if you notice, more and more has been said and campaigns have also been made on how sugar affects health, health behaviour. Just today, somebody in this hall knew to tell me that yesterday I might be really wrong now, I didn't see it myself, but I think in ETV2 a more thorough show about it in the Australian example. I didn't see it myself, but it was said to have been a longer television show, which also talked about, for example, sugar consumption and its harmful aspects. I fully agree with you that, in fact, we need to look at the matter in a complex way: not only excise duty, but also preventive measures that contribute, i.e. the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U734	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U735	Good manager! Honourable waitress! My question is about entry into force. According to the draft law, this law will enter into force on 1 January 2018. However, since this is a new tax and there is not yet a mechanism for the administration of it, I understand that the MTA is just starting to develop it and it is going to take four months to do so, it is basically October, then do you not think that the notice period is too short? It is usually reasonable to give six months to be specific and clear about what tax administration will look like.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U736	Thank you. I don't know, I think you're confusing something a little bit now. Six months is still the difference between the adoption of the tax and the 'legislative' basis. There's six months. You spoke of six months, like in the case of an IT solution. Why six months, not five or seven? There's no logic in that sense. If you ask whether the Tax and Customs Board will be able to carry out IT solutions during this period, for example, in order to administer the tax, I do have information today that they are capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U737	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U738	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! In 2003, one of your party's parties, or the electoral composition of the Fatherland, was that taxes were not to be played. The reason was then given in very many words and convinced the public and political competitors that the Estonian tax system is simple, transparent and free of excessive burdens for both consumers and businesses. By now, you are probably completely renegade from this point of view and from the slogan as well. But the question comes a little bit from the other side and essentially repeats what I asked before you said in your answer that we have a chance to improve this bill. You know, there's a saying in the crowd that something is made of bread, but certain things can't be made of bread. And that goes for the bill. Therefore, we do not believe that this can be very improved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U739	Now the time for questioning is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U740	The question is this: since your party chairman has said that he will open negotiations within the government on these same tax issues, including this draft...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U741	Thank you, Mart Helme! This is not a speech. The speeches will come later. Ask a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U742	And the question is, don't you think it's reasonable to stop reading it today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U743	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U744	Thank you. No, you don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U745	Kalle Palling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U746	Actually, there's been a disservice. As the Minister said before in his previous or previous reply, the proposal to introduce this tax is now being presented to the Riigikogu in order to collect money, to build a city hall and to make some other election promises that have been written in the coalition agreement. But the problem is elsewhere. The problem is that people consume too much sugar, resulting in obesity and poor health. If you were to channel this money into health promotion and prevention and negotiate with producers to reduce sugar in general, this tax would not be necessary in this form. Collect this tax from somewhere else, or do not do the city hall, because the purpose you claim is not to repair the city hall anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U747	Thank you. It makes me a little sad, but it's okay. We are both politicians, and it is clear that the questions are being spiced up with possible background information, which, frankly, makes a little bit of a surprise. You told me several times that this money was going to the city hall, you gave a long treatise here, and you revolved around the city hall, which had nothing to do with the sweet drink tax. I assure you, as well as all the listeners who are currently watching us online: the money from the sweetened beverage tax does not go to the city hall, they are not indexed. When you say that you could channel extra money into health promotion, for example, and contribute to increasing people's informed behaviour by reducing sugar content in the products they buy, I think it is very right and very reasonable. I'm sure it has to be done. I know that the Ministry of Social Affairs has also campaigned to increase people's health awareness. I am also going to tell you that you will take the opportunity to invite a minister in this field to find out what steps you are going to take to say that you see, the Minister of Finance also says that you are going to take these steps, he is going to do health promotion through the Ministry and to improve people's knowledge. I think it is very reasonable to channel the money there, but certainly, once again, we cannot say that the money has to go there. I have always said that, and I also repeat that the more indexing there is, the less flexibility there is. The best example is that if all athletes' scholarships depend on the receipt of a gambling tax, at one point when gambling is less played, it may happen that athletes will no longer receive a scholarship. So it certainly doesn't make sense or right to put an index on it. This is what I am also trying to pass on to the budget flexibility should be increased more and more.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U748	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U749	Honourable Chairman! Dear Minister, I am still asking you to clarify this matter, which is actually a key issue here. Sweetened beverages make up 5% of people's consumption of sugar, as shown by the Health Development Institute's study, and even if they are completely banned, it affects people's consumption of sugar only within this 5%. How, then, can this draft serve its purpose, i.e. to reduce people's sugar consumption? And what I'm going to say here is that dragging the application for State aid authorisation in the Ministry of Finance is probably due to the fact that State aid has to be applied not only for juices but also for many other product groups. You are obviously dealing with these issues and therefore you have not been able to submit this request. Nor can you prove to the European Commission...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U750	Question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U751	...the effect of this law. I am asking how taxation of the 5% share will affect people's total sugar consumption.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U752	Thank you. I said the same answer to a similar question before, but I'll go over it. The question is whether we want to give a signal that, especially sweetened drinks, as the word itself says, sweetened drinks are beverages that are knowingly added either sweetener or sugar are healthy, they are worth drinking and as much as the consumer wants. What's the signal we're trying to give? The Ministry of Social Affairs and various health care organisations, and believe me, they are much smarter than I am, but I am not an expert on this subject, but they are experts, has said that in the case of sweetened beverages, people do not think that when they drink them, they actually consume sugar. They don't think about it. If they're eating something, they're gonna think, uh, okay, I got so many calories out there, I'm gonna get so many calories out of there. In the case of food, you think so subconsciously, but in the case of sweetened drinks, you don't think about it. This is also why, in fact, health experts have said mostly that it is worth paying attention to, although, as you yourself mentioned, it represents a small percentage of total sugar consumption. But this is where a person doesn't realize that there's actually sugar in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U753	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U754	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! Heli Tammitori, Head of the Industrial Policy Department of the Finnish Food and Drinks Association, has written that the tax on soft drinks in Finland has been valid since 1940. The consumption of products has decreased, but the fact is that Finnish consumers have not become thinner. There is a long story where it is said that it is regrettable that politicians are increasingly justifying the payment of food with a public health aspect, although the real aim is only to get money in the state budget, thus reducing the competitiveness of the entire industrial sector. But what is interesting is that he asks whether it would be reasonable to put in place certain measures to assess whether or not the tax policy measure is really working from a public health point of view. Have you thought of that in any way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U755	Thank you. I don't think any metrics are usually bad. I know one minister once flew because of the meters, but I think that no metric is bad by its very nature if you can assess how one or the other measure actually works. The question is always what is your assumption for reducing consumption in one tax or another. If you notice, this is actually what I said in response to one of the earlier questions that this tax could in itself reduce consumption by 27%. And I also pointed out what is the basis for how such a percentage is derived. On the basis of a joint survey of both Euromonitor and European producers of non-alcoholic beverages, the situation in which consumption is reduced by a more informed choice of products with lower sugar content has been examined, also taking into account elasticity. So in practice, studies have shown that consumption is decreasing, and we have no reason to doubt these studies. And the best example was that of Finland, as you quoted a Finnish citizen here. Remember, at the beginning of the debate, we stated that Sprite produced by Coca-Cola Company is a different sugar content in Finland and Estonia, although it is the same Sprite.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U756	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U757	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! New taxes must comply with the country's long-term economic policy and fiscal policy objectives. There are also criteria to be met by the tax: simplicity, easy administration, fairness, efficiency, etc. If we look at the current sweets tax, it doesn't seem to meet these criteria. I am asking for an overview of what it will cost us to apply this tax to the administrative side, how much IT solution, how much for the changes in the work organisation of the Tax and Customs Board and the increasing workload, as new declarations need to be created, etc. Maybe I'll ask you about both creation and administration. How much is all this going to cost us?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U758	If we look at the structure of this future potential sweet tax, I think it meets exactly the criteria you listed here: clear, understandable, effective. The liver is two-step, but three-step, in the sense that zero to five grams of sugar per 100 millilitres has not been taxed at all. Steps are well-defined: 0 to 5, 5 to 8 and beyond. It is well established how, with the change in the sugar content, the tax rate will also go below the upper deciles and what happens when the sugar is replaced by a sweetener. It's all clear. For example, if you have 0 to 5 grams of sugar per 100 millilitres of sugar in your drink, but at the same time you have added a sweetener, you will still be given a level of 0.1 euros. So everything is perfectly clear and unambiguous, there are no "round-the-angle" changes made on the basis of wrong conclusions. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, how much this IT development costs, I am not going to look up the explanatory memorandum quickly right now just to save time. I'll be sure to send you some more specific information after that. Since IT developments always pay, no matter what change you make, we bring it out today. So I'm gonna bring it out for you. I'm not going to start running pages here for the sake of time. But I'll send you that information, I promise.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U759	Please, Maris Lauri, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U760	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law shows that there is a steady increase in tax revenue. At the same time, according to the explanatory memorandum, sugar consumption should decrease considerably by introducing a tax, i.e. the tax base should become narrower. I don't understand how these two developments come together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U761	Thank you. If you don't understand, you have to explain. And, of course, I'm ready to explain this to you. In particular, if you look at a specific draft law, you will also see that there are transitional provisions here. For the most part, we have talked here about the fact that 8 grams of sugar will have a higher tax rate of € 0.3, but the transitional provisions will be graduated: in the first year the limit will be 10 grams per 100 milliliters, in the next year there will be 9 grams and in the third year there will be 8 grams. This gives manufacturers the opportunity to adapt their recipes, which are definitely necessary for them. The producers themselves also asked for attention to be paid to this, i.e. transitional provisions. This is also the answer to your question why, over time, tax receipts are increasing, because we are moving the sugar content from 10 grams to 9 grams, from 9 grams to 8 grams and to this level, to 8 grams per 100 millilitres, and that will remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U762	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U763	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good minister! The day after tomorrow is Friday, and hundreds of thousands of good Estonian people will go to the sauna and then wonder if the price of beer will now rise, because the beer is known to have sugar in it. And that's what I'm asking right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U764	Thank you. After all, you have actually been a member of the Riigikogu for a long time, and therefore you have been a part of the increase in beer excise duty over time, approving them here by pressing the button. I don't think you've been away from the hall at that point, but maybe you're the one who knows that. Today, this bill is not in the hall, but the laws have already been adopted to increase the excise duty on beer over time. And we will see this increase in excise duty in the next few years. So the answer is yes, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U765	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U766	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In my ear, your claim that water is taxed everywhere else, especially in Finland, for example, but we do not have such a thing. Actually, that's not true. We have quite a fee for the special right to use water, which is paid by all those who bottle water in bottles. Added to this is VAT and packaging tax, and companies pay income tax. The consumer will pay for all this. So the charge for the special water usage right is entirely there and it is a specific tax. Don't you think you're just gonna embarrass us here? I think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U767	Thank you. I have used the answer before, and I am still taking this opportunity to say: it does not seem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U768	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U769	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Finance! I'm sure you'll have a long night. We were just talking to a good colleague, Milling, that I don't think you heard the question well, or you don't know how to answer it. But then I'll help you again. The question was whether the price of beer would rise as a result of this tax, but you started talking about alcohol duty. It's two different things. Why don't you answer again the question of a good colleague that you didn't answer correctly?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U770	Thank you. Yes, I realized that the question was about alcohol duty, whether alcohol duty would increase in the near future. I'm sorry! But we're talking about the sugar content of all the liquid drinks.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U771	Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U772	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! What group of society do you think this new tax will have the most impact on, whether those on higher incomes, those on middle incomes or those on low wages?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U773	Thank you. Low-paid people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U774	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U775	Thank you, good minister. President-in-Office of the Council. In a simplified way, this issue could be summed up in such a way as to make sugar thicker and more sugar-rich and sweetened drinks, and to be limited. Look at me! I'm clearly overweight, but I don't take sweetened drinks. Rather, there is danger of starch, bread and elsewhere. If we take care of our people and worry about their obesity, maybe next we'll introduce a potato tax or a tax on bread. What do you think of that idea? Is there anything like this to be expected of the coalition for the sake of human health and well-being in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U776	Thank you. Of course, you can open a longer discussion on whether you should make tax policy decisions on one product or another or on a position. Today, I'm gonna say that there's the liver of sweetened drinks on the table. And if you ask me why this is exactly what we've been debating. People, when they eat food, understand it as a product containing calories with carbohydrates with sugar, but this is not the case with sweetened drinks. Of course, we can open and discuss the nomenclature of new products. But if we ask whether we should do this today, the government has come before you with a clear position on the tax on sweetened beverages. So if you have a proposal to extend the nomenclature, you just have to discuss it. I'm not ready to answer if I should support it. We have not come here with this proposal at the moment and would like to stick to the tax on sweetened beverages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U777	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U778	Dear Minister, I have another question. Of course, we can talk here about saving health, public health and everything else, but let us be honest, if the state cared so much about public health every day, we would ban cigarettes and alcohol, but then a very big hole would be created in the state budget. However, I will now go to this draft. If I remember correctly, two weeks ago, the law firm Sorainen came up with an analysis that says that this draft goes against the laws of the European Union. Have you read the analysis? Have you made any improvements so that we do not break the laws of the European Union? What is your attitude towards this, i.e. how seriously you take the signal that this draft could go against the laws of the European Union, and have you analysed it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U779	Thank you. That is a good question that has so far not been asked in the Chamber today. In that sense, it's good to work it out. We have been familiar with Soraainen's legal position. In Soraainen's analysis, it is noted that the explanatory memorandum sent to the coordination circle did not include certain analyses. We have completed the explanatory statement and these analyses are now included in the explanatory memorandum. We have also assessed the violation of fundamental rights and found it proportionate (see also the explanatory memorandum). We have also analysed European Union law and we state that it is a matter of state aid. And we are moving in the direction of submitting a specific request to the European Commission. We also note that this is a draft which is not contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia or to European Union law. From our point of view, there is no contradiction. This has been said by those experts who have also analysed Mrs Soraainen's letter, but mainly this specific draft. There is no contradiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U780	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U781	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! In the context of this lengthy debate, whether in the last question or in one of the last questions, I would first like to congratulate you on your role well-fulfilled, probably within the limits of your best capacity. However, I dare ask you that if fate had not made you the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia, what would you think of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U782	Thank you. I think that there is no point in commenting on one or the other specific draft that is here today. As Minister of Finance, I have tried, according to my best knowledge, not only to implement this bill, but also all the other drafts that have been here before. I will also try to achieve the best possible option for all future drafts, based on the fact that all decisions will ultimately serve this purpose in order to minimise the interference with entrepreneurship. And when I have said that paying attention to the tax burden on labour is important, it has been my clear position. But coalition agreements certainly give some insight into where one or the other coalition has wanted to go. And I have no reason to object to health experts who say that the introduction of such a sweetened beverage tax will not help to reduce sugar in products. I have no reason to believe that, because there are rather many reasons and examples of how sugar in products has decreased over time. Once again, as Minister for Finance of the Coalition, I will certainly implement coalition policy and try to do so in the best possible way for this same tax. And I gave an example to one of the questioners first. If you unravel the November coalition agreement with the Excel table, there is no secret here, it is a public table, the 'famous Excel table', you will actually see a different number under the expected effect. Surely this number has come down, the result of the coalition's joint work, i.e. not mine, but our joint work. As this is the last speech, I would also like to point out the question that was asked about beer in connection with the tax on sweetened beverages. In general, when it comes to the taxation of non-alcoholic beverages, beers with a lower alcohol content of 0,5 to 1,2% are also subject to tax. Common beer with an alcoholic strength of 4% or 5% shall not be covered by this levy. So if there's a beer with a lower alcoholic content, it'll expand to them. I just thought I'd work it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U783	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, As the Chairman of the IRL has now started to critically reassess this tax package, I will conclude by asking such a question. If they have to be put on the table, which one would you give up first, either the bill or the package excise bill that we dealt with earlier?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U784	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U785	Thank you. Instead, I would like to respond by making a full effort and using every opportunity to call the members of the Riigikogu if you would propose to move the tax-free minimum from 500 euros to 450 euros or 400 euros, as you proposed in one draft. If you make this proposal, believe me, I am personally prepared to call the members of the Riigikogu and request that they do not support this draft that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U786	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The Chair of the Monetary Commission, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will make a presentation on behalf of the Steering Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U787	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 5 May. I do not know whether, with shame or with pride, I must admit that this debate was not as intellectual as it was in this Chamber today. Unfortunately, issues such as conservativeness, liberality, their connection and resistance were not discussed, let alone paralyzed. However, after introducing the law, 17 questions were summarised to the Minister. 12 of them have been taken down with today's debate. Two questions were put here in practically the same form three times, which, together with the Commission's debate, is already four times. So all I have to do is talk about what wasn't mentioned in this hall today. The Commission said that sugar tax was abolished on ice cream in Finland because it was contrary to state aid rules. Asked if it was better predictable to apply for an exception for juice. The answer was that it cannot be ruled out unambiguously that no authorisation would be granted. At the same time, Finland decided to restrict the sweet tax object itself because it did not want to tax cookies. And in Finland, drinks are taxed, as it already sounded here, since 1940. Why are locally prepared and ready-to-eat sweetened beverages excluded? To avoid excessive administrative burdens. I mean, that's what they asked, but not so directly. For example, the sugar content of each blender should be determined for locally manufactured smoothie intended for immediate consumption in the cafeteria. Products intended solely for local consumption do not compete with shop products. How much would sugar consumption decrease without this law? The trend in Estonia provides a basis for assuming that it will not decrease, but grow. There are natural and artificial sweeteners, some of them are safe for health and others of questionable value. For example, aspartame is banned in some countries. The Ministry of Finance has held discussions with the Ministry of Social Affairs on this subject, but there is no such distinction in the draft. How does this law affect the administrative burden on producers? The burden of introducing a new tax is always greater. And the procedural decisions were as follows: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft law be sent to the Chamber by today, 17 May, with the proposal to terminate the first reading (six members of the committee voted in favour, 3 were against, no abstentions) and to appoint the chairman of the committee as rapporteur by 31 May at 5.15 p.m. of the amendments. Thank you. And there are no bullets in the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U788	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you. I am opening negotiations for the representatives of the political groups to discuss the general principles of this bill. Monika Haukanõm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U789	Mr President! Good ambassadors! Good minister! The protection of public health is an issue that must be taken very seriously. And no one has ever questioned the need to take steps to raise people's awareness so that everyone, from kindergarten to kindergarten, can make healthier choices and abandon self - destructive behaviour. The draft that is currently on the table before us is included in the argument on the protection of public health, which is in large print and very emphatically highlighted. On the other hand, it also has a fiscal objective, which has been reduced to a secondary level. But is it? After all, the explanatory memorandum states that the introduction of a sugar levy will help to obtain the revenue necessary for the operation of the State. What concerns many members of the Riigikogu, entrepreneurs, taxpayers, is the fact that making such substantial changes at such a pace and with such a culture of involvement will significantly damage the Estonian economy and the legal environment. This is a draft which has significant effects. Unfortunately, it was not even necessary to draw up a plan for drafting the draft. It is said to be an urgent draft because the Government of the Republic simply decided so. However, without the intention of being developed, it is not known whether we are currently on the right track to solve the problem. But we will come back to the fiscal dimension. According to the draft law, the aim is to collect 15 euros into the state budget with ease next year, then 16 million euros, etc. Where's the money going? To patch the holes in the state budget, of course, for example, to cover an increase in the tax-free minimum. What's the problem? If the money collected were to go, for example, to support mobility, support for fruit and vegetable programmes, then that would be understandable. The sugar levy on drinks has been made into a great front of public health, but it is hypocritical. Studies show that sweetened drinks are not by far the most serious source of harmful sugar when looking at the eating habits of Estonian people. Overconsumption of sweets and bakery products is also a major health concern, as is excessive consumption of sweetened beverages. This tax is part of a new tax avalanche designed to cover government over-exploited promises. Do we have the confidence that the next harmful product that needs to be protected against will not be found? It would be fair to say that we made up a tax because we need tens of millions of it and that. Instead, critics are immediately branded as opponents of promoting public health. I guess I'm about to get that temple on my forehead, too. The connecting line is still that the sweetness to be introduced is too complicated and hypocritical. It now turned out that natural sugar and added sugar do not make any difference. This means that the sweet tax is collected not only on the quantity of sugar added but also on the additional sugar contained in the product. Of course, it is not important for public health in view of obesity and obesity in relation to the source of sugar. However, the interest of each country must be to protect products that are useful and produced in its own country, such as natural juices, which are a major source of vitamin. To this end, the Ministry of Finance plans to go to the European Commission to apply for a State aid permit and when it is obtained, domestic vitamin-rich juices will be excluded from tax objects. But if you don't get it, the price of juice in the store will rise by about 70%. And using the words of Marek Viilol, CEO of AS Põltsamaa Felix, the government equates eating apple with drinking lemonade. If we also tax juices, Estonia is the first country in Europe to do so. The question may therefore arise as to why, on the one hand, the State promotes the consumption of apples and other fruit and vegetables through advertising campaigns, such as 'five handfuls of fruit and vegetables per day', and, on the other hand, the apple is considered harmful and taxing the products it produces. This complex scheme sounds absurd. We ourselves are creating a problem, and then we are going to solve it through the Brussels bureaucratic machine, which may take a very long time. And actually, the result is not guaranteed. There was also a announcement that last night, under the leadership of Allar Jõks, the Association of Estonian Soft Drinks Producers, which consists of the three largest Estonian soft drinks producers, lodged a complaint with the European Commission about the so-called soda tax, because several principles in force in the European Union are being violated. In addition to complexity and injustice, the question arises as to how much this will cost us. After all, this is a new tax, which means that new IT systems must also be created, work must be reorganized, work must be done on organisational issues. The explanatory memorandum states that IT development alone costs EUR 1 million, but the actual financial cost is still unknown. It should be stressed here that the Free Party attaches great importance to improving the state of public health so that our healthy lives are prolonged and we live longer and longer. However, this draft is not based primarily on the desire to improve public health, but on the need to raise the necessary funds in the state budget. And it's like letting gin out of a bottle. If there is a need to collect taxes to patch the holes in the state budget, it is also fair to say so, not to get behind the influence of health behaviour. After all, it is about raising people's awareness, educating people, promoting people's exercise, etc., that we ourselves make better choices, because we are all judgmental and we understand what is good for us. We don't just need tax evasion. And, all of that, the Free Party Group proposes to reject the draft law on the tax on sweetened beverages initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U790	Aivar Sõerd on behalf of the Reform Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U791	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of today's debate, it became even more clear to us that the draft tax on sweetened beverages aims primarily at fiscal purposes. This helps to fill public deficits and affects people with lower incomes in particular, with rising prices, and health protection is only secondary or tertiary. To change people's health behaviour requires much more than a new tax, even less a tax with the main objective of filling a budget gap. In particular, to stop obesity, it is necessary to increase people's awareness of nutrition, encourage people to eat healthier, move, exercise, and also improve product labelling. The National Institute for Health Development has pointed out in its study that bakery products are the first to be consumed in human sweets. The second is perhaps followed by coffee sugar, chocolate, sweets. The third is sweet dairy products and the fourth is juice drinks. And only in the fifth place are sweet drinks with 5% sugar intake. Perhaps even if it completely bans the consumption of 5% of beverages, it is still completely unclear how a small proportion of people will be affected by this overall consumption of sugar. This is probably also the reason why the Ministry of Finance has not yet received a request for State aid to the European Commission. The Minister admitted, or at least admitted, that the Ministry of Finance was still in the process of concentrating the reasons and arguments. Obviously, the European Commission cannot be confused the way it is for us here. The European Commission still needs to be given very good reasons as to how this draft fulfils its objective, i.e. reduces sugar consumption. And obviously, the exemption is not only necessary for juice products. These products are much more competitive with soft drinks. And there's another legal problem. Indeed, exempt sweetened milk products which are consumed on the internal market are predominantly produced here on the ground, but soft drinks are brought from other European Member States. Perhaps this tax is also discriminatory. And I understand that a legal dispute has also been built on this legal issue. As a whole, the Minister of Finance has brought to the Riigikogu a number of tax bill, the total effect of which is the appreciation of everyday consumer goods, the significant loss of competitiveness in several sectors of the economy, the stepping up of the shadow economy and border trade and, ultimately, the decline in people's living standards. This part of the tax benefit allowed by the increase in the tax-free minimum will be withdrawn repeatedly through the tax burden of all these new taxes and the increase in consumer prices. And to sum up: the current government is bequeathing to the next governments a huge deficit, as well as a thwarted economic and tax environment, and it is also bringing a significant patchwork of legal disputes to the country. As a result, the Riigikogu Reform Party Group proposes to reject the draft law on the tax on sweetened drinks at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U792	Martin Helme on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U793	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will first say one thing that does not concern this bill. Are we having debates too loud or not? I honestly have to admit, I find it awful when the scalp is pissed off in this hall or some kind of soup vapor is plowed through the microphone. You have to be out loud for your truth. But I'm coming to this bill now. I will, of course, repeat to some extent what I have already pointed out with my questions. I do not consider it reasonable to debate here at all whether or not half a gram here or there or whether or not this sugar tax has any effect on public health. Everyone understands that it doesn't work. Everyone's gonna realize it's a tax on exfoliating money from the public. We also made it clear that the most poor part of the population, i.e. the part for which the government claims to be fighting the most, was made nicely ahead of the tree and red. This is the worst for families with children. So if it is justified here by the fact that some kind of income tax scheme has been made, which kind of leaves more money in the hands of poorer people, then there is nothing to do with the classic activity of a thick country that is given with a spoon, with a scoop. And it is actually the most unpleasant aspect of this entire bill that we have reached a phase, 25 years after the collapse of the totalitarian state and the birth of the Republic, where we have officials and politicians who sincerely believe that it is up to them to organise a human table. No, it's not! And if you think so, you've got a little liberal fascist in your chest who wants to ban everything, put some kind of vegan tone in my nose, or I don't know what to say and say that it has to be, it can't be any different. And if you, motherfucker, take something you like and I don't like, pay more. This is the totalitarian mindset of a fat country, which, of course, goes hand in hand with a thick layer of tax. And it's just disgusting. I would like to emphasise once again: this whole discussion made it so clear that it had nothing to do with public health. If it was, they'd do it differently. Public health can be improved in particular by explaining. There's nowhere in this bill to see this money go to explaining. All of us know these examples were brought here so many times that in places where 'unhealthy' diets are taxed, people have not become thinner, they do not consume less. And, of course, it was fun to hear that we didn't yet have water taxed. The minister was blurry about a lot of other things here, but we still have water on our hands. I have not yet been able to pay off my utility bill in such a way that I have not paid VAT on the roll. But all right. In short, the bad bill has a bad impact on the economy, a bad impact on the pockets of Estonian people, which promotes a country with a thick totalitarian mindset. The Conservative People's Party proposes that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U794	Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U795	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please do not see the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs in me now. In the Commission and in this role, I would never say the kind of thing that I am going to tell you right now. Firstly, it is said here that these new laws are needed to patch holes in the budget. No, it's not! It is necessary to return what has been stolen from the people. And I'm reminding you, there's a lot of stolen stuff. In 2009, the local authorities were stripped. We'll give them back. For many years, the education system has been underfunded. Are we going to talk about teachers' salaries, kindergartens and kindergartens' salaries? Are we going to talk about our health care system? Why don't you talk about it? If you want things to work out there, show me where to take the money. The only way the civilised world can see is to tax consumption. It is simply not possible for us to do anything else in the current situation. They've been stolen, they need to give it back, and we'll give it back. Point two: there are two Estonias. One Estonia jokes about what the minimum wage is, what the real average wage is, but the other one lives with this minimum wage. And how is he? I doubt you'll want to know and talk about it. Well, our last region of Ida-Viru County, with an average wage, isn't somewhere in the 5th. When I look from behind, but every day, when I'm there and I'm talking to people, I always wonder what kind of salary a single mother earns there with two kids and how she lives. We are giving people a concrete opportunity to improve their situation, with EUR 500 exempt from income tax. 768 euros falling from the sky gets 96 people from Narva who work there. I know the statistics, I watch it every month. But here it's going to be about the fact that this sugar tax doesn't have a health effect, just 5%. You, of course, know the recipe to improve your health at the rate of 100%, then say it! Don't you remember what an old Chinese guy said? Each journey begins with the first step. Here sugar, alcohol, tobacco, and gradually the same public health will improve. But every journey begins with the first step. I support the coalition. We have quite different views, but I have been here on a regular basis since 1999 and I do not know of any coalitions with such a powerful and positive programme, an action plan. You know that, too, and you're trying not to let it happen. And then it starts out I wouldn't call it a circus, but today I had this feeling like I was getting into a Luis Buñuel or Jean-Luc Godard movie, full surrealism! We're discussing drinks, sugar content, and there's no matter what from bad to conservative to liberal ratios. We, as a group, certainly support this law. We support all laws that help improve people's lives in Estonia. And 500 euros of income tax-free, this is the first real, concrete and very strong step. It is worth changing the tax system for this purpose, as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U796	There are no more requests to speak, negotiations have been concluded. The commission has proposed that the first reading of draft 457 be terminated. However, on the basis of the statements made by three political groups, the Estonian Free Party, the Reform Party and the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party, it is proposed to reject the draft law on the tax on sweetened drinks at first reading 457. We have a vote ahead of us. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting against the proposal by the three opposition groups, the Estonian Conservative People's Party, the Reform Party and the Estonian Free Party to reject the bill for the sweetened Drink Tax Act 457 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote! 37 votes in favour and 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 457 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U797	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Finance Sven Sester, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U798	Hello, Mr President.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U799	Hi!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U800	Dear Members, The night's still young. Let's move on to our next bill. This is a bill bearing the number 458. For all those who do not know what is behind this number, this is a draft law amending the Income Tax Act and other laws, mainly a draft law amending the VAT and traffic law. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] With the draft submitted to you, we will change the rules on the taxation of participation options in the Income Tax Act. Two corporate tax measures included in the Government's Action Programme are implemented and the Estonian branches of resident credit institutions and non-resident credit institutions are obliged to pay advances on income tax. In addition, the draft amends the rules on the taxation of passenger cars used by the company in the VAT Act and the basis for calculating the price of the special benefit for passenger cars in the Income Tax Act. Under the current Income Tax Act, the disposal of participation options is exempt if the period between the provision and disposal of the participation option is three years. Where this period is shorter, the special preferential tax shall be the special benefit. The purpose of the Act is to encourage start-up participation options through a more favourable tax treatment. In the case of the sale of the company's total holding, i.e. "full exit', and in the case of loss or death of the employee's capacity, a three-year retention period is not required in the future. In the future, if the underlying assets of the option change, the three-year maintenance period will not be interrupted, provided that all other contractual terms remain unchanged. In order to support the business environment and improve the availability of labour, the tax regime for employers' costs related to accommodation and transport of workers will be changed. The cost of accommodation for an employee is tax-free for the employer if the employee resides more than 50 kilometres from the place of employment. The employer's transport costs shall not be treated as a special advantage if the transport is carried out by bus. The employer shall also be allowed to cover the transport costs of the employee working under the contract of employment if the worker's place of residence is at least 50 kilometres from the place of employment. In order to improve the competitiveness of the Estonian investment environment, the company's regular profit distributions will be subject to a lower income tax rate of 14%. This is necessary in order for Estonia to be able to compete with the 15% income tax rate of Lithuania and Latvia, for example, in attracting new investments. This amount, which is less than or equal to the average of the company's distributed profits that were subject to taxation in Estonia in the previous three years, is treated as a regular profit distribution. For the purposes of calculating the average distributed profit for the preceding three calendar years, the first year shall be considered as 2018. This means that in 2019 the 14% rate will be applied to one third of the profits distributed in 2018, etc. The share of profits taxed at a rate of 14% on dividends paid to a natural person is retained by the company for 7% of its income tax, the tax burden on a self-employed person or shareholder does not change as compared to the present draft. The draft solves the problem of non-taxing hidden profit distributions. According to the draft law, the distribution of profits is to be regarded as loans granted by a subsidiary to a parent company or to another company located above the chain of companies, which exceed the amount of the loans and capital contributions taken by the company. If the loan is repaid within two years of its granting, the State shall repay the tax paid to the taxpayer when the loan is granted. By way of derogation, it is stipulated that the income tax liability does not generate money in the short term through a group account to other group members if it is intended to manage the liquidity of the group as a whole. Thus, the normal business activities envisaged in the draft are not disrupted, but the Estonian tax environment is regulated. The bill imposes an obligation on resident credit institutions and Estonian branches of non-resident credit institutions to pay advances on income tax. The rate of advance payments is 14% of the profit earned in the previous quarter. A tax scheme based on advance payments for banks ensures a more regular collection of income tax into the state budget. In order to reduce the administrative burden on taxpayers, the Income Tax Act simplifies the rules for calculating tax-free income. The amendment does not affect the amount of tax-free income. Payments to volunteers who carry out NGO functions in the public interest in a foreign country, up to the limit of the daily allowance of an external mission, are not subject to income tax under the proposal. In the future, the employer may reimburse tax-free parking fees paid for the use of a personal passenger car for the performance of service, work and official tasks. The price of an employer's passenger car special benefit is determined on the basis of the capacity of the passenger car. The current maximum amount of EUR 256 per month per passenger car is replaced by a calculation of the capacity of the car, according to which the tax liability for the special benefit, i.e. income tax and social tax, is EUR 1.3 per kilowatt per month. Under the new system, the tax liability is lower than the fixed rate of the current special benefit for mid- and low-power cars. By the way, they account for about 70% of companies' passenger cars. For passenger cars older than five years, the tax liability is a quarter lower. In the case of passenger cars which have been banned for private use by the employer, including cars which are in the public sector, I draw attention to, in the public sector, only used for professional travel, the corresponding note shall be entered in the traffic register. In the case of mixed-use vans (N1), operators will be allowed to use on a voluntary basis the same KWTP calculation basis as for passenger cars. At present, they are subject to market-based taxation of their own resources and benefits to employees, which is difficult and burdensome in tax accounting. These are the main changes to the draft under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U801	You have questions. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U802	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I received one of these letters late last night, and I quote: 'The loss of driving journals is a cause for great company figures who mate with super expensive cars to Europe on vacations, golf clubs, gyms, and not 80% of small business owners, drivers whose turnover comes from selling their labour, not from'speculation', whose 'private drives' come from a client to snatch into a store to buy something for themselves and some employees to put in a microwave for lunch, but 150 euros for monthly taxes. " Knowing your kindness, please help me to answer this letter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U803	Thank you. I think, when we are talking about the taxation of passenger cars and, above all, the taxation of mixed use, it is certainly important to say here that this is one of the changes that have been discussed very thoroughly with employers, business organisations and the problems mapped out. As we know, cars are always the ones everyone loves to talk about. It has been said that, in essence, the current system, if you have the so-called level of 256 euros that is taken into account in income and social tax, i.e. in the order of 170 euros, in 169 cents, is the money that you transfer, which does not take as a basis the value or benefit of the car itself that you actually receive, and, in turn, there is more to not pay it, all forms of driving diary, has lived its own time. This has been the clear position of employers, the various entrepreneurs, asking them to bring about these changes. If we look at what is now being done, as I said, this level of EUR 256 will be directed more towards the value of the car. The best thing would actually be to base the value of a car on a fairer assessment of the good. Since the value of the car in its nature is manipulative between the buyer and the seller, it is an agreement between them, a more thorough work was carried out and a review was carried out which would give as close a correlation as possible to the value of the car. The power is over 90% purely correlated with the value of the car, the more powerful the value of the car, the greater the value of the car, which in turn means that the greater the benefit that a person is given to use in his daily activities. And what is certainly important, and what is worth marking, is the issue of so-called fairness and simplicity, which, to some extent, was included in your questioning. Perhaps the easier a system is, and this is not just the case with car taxation, the more problems there may be with the issue of fairness. The fairest system is every kilometer to take into account was the fairest system, you write down exactly your kilometers. But unfortunately, it is also the least easy. Here's the correlation question. And I can assure you that an agreement has been reached with businesses to move forward with an example of cars becoming 70% cheaper in their nature, as I mentioned, i.e. cheaper in the form of this tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U804	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U805	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! With regard to the guarantee tax or the deposit tax system, I do not think you have reached an agreement with the economic operators on that. The question is how many entrepreneurs in Estonia are affected. How do you feel about the criticism that Jüri Käo is mediated by today's Äripäev? I don't mean what he says about you personally, that you're producing thick blood among the entrepreneurs. I mean this inherent criticism that the investment environment is no longer so attractive after this change, and one reason why you come to Estonia with your capital is less.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U806	Thank you. That's a good question. I'm looking at this reaction, and I remember the time Jürgen Ligi brought on the table a declaration of 1000-euro bills. The feedback from entrepreneurs was this: incredible, unheard of, it cannot be implemented, etc. And I remember that Jürgen Ligi stated at that point that maybe this is a properly targeted measure, which was also demonstrated by the reaction. If we look at the potential future deposit system, the data are estimated because there is no need to declare at present how much the subsidiary has granted to the parent company or to one or another of the companies above the chain. Here, 800 million and perhaps billion euros have been speculated. The question is whether or not the bottom-up loans are currently "business as usual" or not. Actually, that's the question. If a parent or, let's say, the head of a group wants to invest in some kind of business project and creates, in order to differentiate its risks, a separate subsidiary, provides it with share capital and directs additional capital in the form of a loan, it will do so with a view to obtaining a profit from it. If there is a profit in this subsidiary, it would also make sense that this profit will be paid to the parent company if there is no desire to invest further, then of course it will have to be paid out to the parent company. If a subsidiary, this stand-alone legal entity, has a desire to invest further in the following projects, then I think that the current income tax system, where reinvested profits are exempt from income tax, is a very good system that should definitely continue. If you do not want to continue investing, you usually return it as income when you return money to the owner, paying a dividend tax on it. The problem now is that it is not returned as income but as a loan. There's a deeper nature of the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U807	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U808	Thank you. I will continue on the issue of the system of mortgage income tax. This is clearly the most harmful of all the changes to the Estonian business environment that are discussed here today. A few more are coming, the budget rules are coming up. Businesses, such as the Tallinn Kaubamaja Group, have said that this costs them approximately 3 million euros a year, as it also concerns intra-group loans. In any case, this price will be more expensive for the entrepreneur, these movements, bureaucracy, proof, proof, etc. The Tax Administration Act actually allows the tax administration to assess the loans even now according to their actual content and, if necessary, to argue to the Supreme Court whether the loan to the parent company was granted for the purpose of the loan or with the wish, let's say, either cheat or withdraw money from Estonia. Why did you not consider the possibility of supporting, strengthening and thus creating clarity for the tax administration, if necessary, instead of the new tax system currently proposed? I believe that if you had signalled that the state wanted to receive these real or apparent loans, it would probably have been for entrepreneurs to react to that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U809	Thank you. Well, there's a difference of opinion. I don't think I'm being unfair, but I remember that the former Minister of Finance, Aivar Sõerd, of your own party, has said that the withdrawal of profits through loans should be limited. I guess I'm not wrong, I've heard him mention it. But what I would certainly like to get rid of is this part of the group account in the introduction to your question. One thing is when other members of a group account receive money in the short term through a group account and are aimed at managing comprehensive liquidity. The group account may have several objectives, such as the money of a profitable company to cover a new project where the company that has actually made a profit has no interest other than to withdraw the loan. In the case of a group account in the classical sense, i.e. the management of comprehensive liquidity, this draft does not interfere. This option will still be available to manage comprehensive liquidity. The second, substantive part of the question was why the Tax and Customs Board could not treat one or the other loan more deeply. I believe that the tax system in its nature must not be built on the principle that the tax is due as a result of long investigations and disputes. Today, this is a situation where long-term research, debate and then there are case-based proofs that are clearly resource-intensive and complex. Now the question is what is the goal. Whether our aim is to direct taxpayers' money to long-term case-based interpretations and disputes where ultimately it becomes clear who is right, or to explicitly state in law that the granting of loans from a subsidiary to a parent company that exceeds equity capital in foreign currency is actually a transfer of income from a subsidiary to a parent company, which should normally be taxed by dividend payment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U810	Jürgn Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U811	Thank you. Pawn tax is certainly the most important deterioration in the economic environment in this draft. I was written yesterday by an entrepreneur who described how much it limits its economic activity. You said it wasn't a daily activity. Unfortunately, it is quite a daily activity; it is a natural part of economic activity. That is why your party's long-term supporter, Jüri Käo, also suggested that you replace the Minister of Finance for all these confusions. But when we talk about 800 million loans standing up, tell me how much you think our turnover is normal. How do you know it's some kind of unnatural number when companies lend money to each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U812	Thank you. I don't think there's anything unnatural about companies lending to each other. I think here we should look at the 'generally lonely' system inside ourselves. I would remind you that in the years 2000 when a situation arose where no income tax was taken on reinvested profits, the aim was not that profits would not be taken out, but that in the future the subsidiaries would transfer it to the parent companies as loans. That was the goal at that moment. Today, a new situation has developed, a new reality has developed, and today, for us in this Chamber, the question is whether this was, in fact, the purpose of the law at the time. We are in a situation where really many companies do not essentially pay dividends, but transfer it as a loan to their parent companies, and they themselves actually have an interest in follow-up projects, with the exception of the potential borrowing rate they receive for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U813	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U814	Thank you. Mr Sester, you yourself have always stated in the past that the opinion of companies is, as if, important to you, and at the same time, the simplicity and comprehension of the tax environment. This package of changes is not satisfied with the business community, and it certainly does not make the whole system easier for businesses and tax officials. Have you considered other alternatives? Why don't we just go back to our old positions and try to pull something together in this hunch of spending, try to cancel something? Tax collection in this way is not going to work well for you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U815	Thank you. You know, good questioner, I will tell you and all the other listeners, both in and outside the Chamber, here: neither in the next year nor in the following year will this measure expect any additional euro to be received into the state budget. No extra euro is expected! All the talk about the possible financial measure accompanying this draft for the state budget is wrong. No euro is expected, please don't say that! Indeed, no euro is expected for the next year or the following year. If we look at the big plan, then the question is whether or not the deposit tax in its nature or, more precisely, the deposit tax is not a new tax, in fact it is the hidden withdrawal of the dividend in the form of a loan that bears its purpose or not. Does this company, who has actually made a profit, want to reinvest it somewhere else? If he wants to reinvest it, I think it is very right, very good, and he must not be charged with income tax. The current law allows for this. If he does not want to reinvest it, he does not have new ideas; he does not have new ideas; he wants to pay back his owner, to his parent company, then very many companies use it as a loan. That is the purpose of this deposit now. If you do not want to invest your profits further and you wish to transfer it back to your parent company, then in normal business you will make a profit payout. That's actually the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U816	Andres Ammas, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U817	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The letter from business organisations revealed, at least for me, the interesting fact that, in my opinion, the ideas contained in this draft cluster are already separately coordinated with business organisations, each and every one of them separately. And then, at some point, it was decided to merge them all into one bill. Please, could you explain why it was decided to do so? The people sitting in this hall are put in such a difficult position. I am sincerely saying that there are things in this bill that I want to be on my side, but there are also things that I cannot be on my side in any way. In the end, you will vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U818	Thank you. You know, I'm trying to explain it again and again, etc. Several journalists also told me that Mr Ammas was talking about the cluster bill. I'll explain it one more time. The draft cluster is a package of drafts that combines several drafts that do not have any interaction with each other. This is, in a classical sense, the logic of the cluster bill. To put it simply, when the Act on Artificial Fertilization is linked to the Act on the Election of Local Self-government, which has no contact with each other. When these two things are put together, it's a cluster bill. Good colleague, if you are dealing with different sections of the amendment to the Income Tax Act, it is not a cluster bill, it is a law amending the Income Tax Act with all its positive and negative aspects. Can you imagine that we should deal with six draft laws amending the Income Tax Act at the same time? I think that would create an excessive administrative burden for all of us. We have the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, it has different aspects, which I think are all good. You say some are good, some are bad. This is not a cluster bill, it is an amendment of one law, an amendment of the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U819	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U820	First of all, it's not for the minister now, it's for the verbatim. Please note in the verbatim that at 22.08 the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Estonia lost his nerves and at 22.11 he got them back somewhat so that history would know it. Now let's keep talking. There has been talk of ideas from Jürgen Ligi, Aivar Sõerd, etc. These people are classics. It's the original, they're real, they're beautiful, they're big ideas. Inevitably, what is said today is a poor and pale copy that does not deserve the original. And even this reference is somehow... Well, what's the story today next to Near or Sõerdi? But I'm still going to ask you what's one of the pervading ideas of this bunch. Please respond calmly, without insults, and briefly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U821	Thank you-Thank you, good questioner! We'll set the time for 22.13. Nerves are still in good shape, I'm completely fresh and ready to hold debates for a long night. And I hope that you, too, are sitting there enjoying yourself and, in the meantime, going to your group to eat naturally, because what else could be done there. I would like to say that if you are discussing the positive changes to this draft, I do not think we need to be ashamed to bring out a number of changes here that we are about to make with this draft. Well, the good questioner has left, but I'm still going to give an overview to all those left in this hall. I think that the abolition of the special tax on the transport of workers, which employers have been waiting for a very long time, will now come true. Not today, but the first step in this direction has been done at first reading. In the case of the transport and accommodation costs of their employees, where they are more than 50 kilometres of distance between the place of residence and the place of work, the employer is currently required to pay a special discount tax. It won't have to be paid in the future. In view of what is still positive here, I think it would be worth mentioning exceptions to participation options. Please note the exemption for transport, the exception for accommodation, the exemption for participation options. Remember, once there were exceptions to taboos, a few years ago no exceptions were allowed. We've started to "rich" these taboos now. In healthcare, we made an exception: today, the employer is able to give EUR 400 to improve the health of his employee, years ago it was taboo to talk about it. I think that participation options are a nuance, which will certainly help to anchor Estonia as a good business environment. If you ask what these options mean, I'll explain it again. At the moment, the situation is that if the employee and the employer are entered into a participation option contract, it must be three years old, and if you want to realise the option earlier, then there is an obligation to pay a special bonus tax on it. In the future, it will be more flexible: if two years of participation is maintained and then full exit takes place, the company will be sold as a start-up company, then two years of special preferential tax will not have to be paid. I think it's very positive. I also think that in the near future, in the global competition with Latvia and Lithuania, if the owner decides that he wants to invest his money, set up a factory, he will, of course, not only look at tax policy. He looks at a variety of things: what infrastructure is, what other nuances are. However, tax policy is certainly one of the nuances it looks at in its investment decisions. If an investor currently sets up a plant in Latvia or Lithuania, makes a profit there and wants to take out that profit, he will get it by 15%. Yes, there is one good thing in Estonia as long as you reinvest, no percentage of your profits will be taken from you. But if you want to pay out the owner, like a foreign investor, you'll be forced to pay 20%. We want to take it to 14% on average. I think these are examples of things that, by summing up, will contribute to the improvement of our business environment in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U822	At 10:17 p.m., Martin Helme asks the question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U823	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. I must say that you did not honour Gräzin's request. But I'm confused now. You said here before that there will be no euro due to this cluster bill. And it really is a cluster bill. Just as Mr Ammas said, I have a few things here that I like, but most of them do not like. If there's a bank tax, a car tax, a discount tax change and a dividend tax at the same time, it's a cluster. But in the Commission, I got so much smarter that this bank tax, let's call it that, should be paid into the state budget in the third quarter of 2018, and the total amount is nearly 100 million. It distributes for several years, but next year, when I looked into the calendar, it's 2018 already. However, I ask you more about the car tax, which should bring in seven million euros a year, if I remember correctly. It's a classic car tax, because if it wasn't a classic car tax, it wouldn't be kilowatt-based. Why are we still putting it in place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U824	Thank you. You just put the mash and the cabbages together, and I'm trying to explain it to you. Car-related tax treatment - what is that in its nature? When a company gives a car to "mixed use" or gives it to an employee for personal use, it means that the employee receives some kind of benefit in the form of a car. He can use the good in his daily activities. At present, this benefit is 256 euros, on which income and social tax are paid as a special preferential tax, and 170 euros are paid. In the future, this benefit depends on the power of the car and the power is correlated with the price of the car. The best indication would be the price of the car itself, because it gives the value of the benefit best known. The power is over 90% correlated with the price of the car, so the extremely high-comparable the more powerful the car is, the greater the benefit, and the smaller the car, the smaller the benefit. I also say to you that, when we started discussions with entrepreneurs, their first identity on this subject has been spoken for over a year, the subject was already on the table in the previous coalition, when they came up with the idea of losing the driving log with the utmost importance. It had to be designed in such a way that no direct state budget benefits would arise. Pay attention, now we're about to reach seven million, as you rightly quoted. So simply changing what you are shouldn't be making a profit. This, in turn, can be compared to the fact that making a new menu in a restaurant does not mean that food costs more. And we agreed on this in everything, including these specific numbers, that 1.3 euros in kilowatts, etc. True, if there is no change in behaviour, this new, kilowatt-based calculation will be negative for the state budget, i.e. if there is no change in behaviour. We expect a behavioural change to come. If you ask why there will be a behavioural change, we assume that because 70% of current cars will be taxed with a smaller number. If, in the past, regardless of the value of the car itself, regardless of the kilowatts of the car, the price of the car was always 170 euros, then it is now based on kilowatts and this amount may be less than 100 euros, a hundred euros, there are examples for you. 70% of cars! We expect a behavioural change, which, in sum, should lead to a situation where this minus, which we are now creating through this behavioural change in the bill, becomes a plus. Once again, I think it will make it easier, eliminate the driving diaries, and ultimately, 70% of car owners will pay less in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U825	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U826	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns the advance income tax of credit institutions. You explain everything so nicely and peacefully, but tax experts from the taxpayers' union have expressed the opinion that one point may be contrary to the Constitution. It's the kind of thing that the object of an advance payment, or the definition of profit, is delegated to the minister by the power of attorney. If that's true, how do you explain it? I understand that the taxpayers' union is a little confused about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U827	Thank you. All things must, of course, be reviewed, things must be correct, there must not be a situation where there is a misconception or the possibility of a constitutional contradiction. Of course it can't be. Let's take a look. We are of the opinion that the draft law is currently drafted in such a way that advance dividend payments do not create a situation for banks where it would not be in accordance with the law. By the way, the state aid issues are also up here, and we will deal with them separately. For example, I have asked Austria, a Member State of the European Union, for more information. They are even tougher, specifically for banks only for fiscal purposes. We have addressed them separately with certain questions. But of course, if we sense that there is a need for further clarification, then there is no question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U828	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U829	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Again, a draft law put forward as a matter of urgency for which there is no intention to develop. Why are you bringing us to this Riigikogu such a bad practice in dealing with draft laws? Your own party partner, the Minister of Justice, has very seriously stressed the importance of handing over the correct draft laws. This should not be the case, because the issues are very important. We'd like to get more into them, but now it's rushed again. That makes it look really bad.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U830	Thank you. I fully agree with the questioner that the form is certainly very important, but even more important is the content. The form is important, I agree with you, but more importantly, the content. I think that by working together we can review its content and, if necessary, improve it. I do think that content has pre-requisites for being pretty good right now, but that doesn't mean it can't be improved yet. We have planned to put the changes into effect in 2018. We want to bring about the changes that have been mentioned here today, good changes, and we have the opportunity to discuss among ourselves in this process whether one or the other change is good, whether it will lead to the goal that we have set ourselves. And I believe we will do this in cooperation with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U831	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U832	Thank you. You answered my previous question that if there is a case law versus an increase in taxes, you will choose a clear political choice for tax increases. I don't agree, but of course you have that right. In my opinion, with this draft, particularly with regard to the system of statutory income tax, you are making the environment considerably worse for honest entrepreneurs. You assume that entrepreneurs are necessarily cheating. And I'm sure you'll make money more expensive for companies because you put their liquidity under pressure, but the interest state, as I understand it, doesn't pay for the money you pledge. My question, however, is this. When I read the statements by the newly elected chairman of the IRL, he too is very critical of the system of the mortgage tax. Have you spoken to him, and does he support this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U833	Thank you! All right. I will also try to comment on the statements made in the introduction and finally, of course, to get to the question. You said, first of all, that the case law versus the tax increase, I made such an observation. I don't think that's right. I think, and so I said, that the tax system must not be built up on the basis that the tax is due after a long investigation and debate. I don't think it's a good tax system. This is not the right way to channel taxpayers' money. I don't think that's right. The next statement you said, because you put words in my mouth, I have to push them all over, the balls up, the balls down again, it was as if all the entrepreneurs were cheating. I didn't say that. I don't know if you assume they're all cheating. If that's what you expect, it's on your conscience. I never said that entrepreneurs cheat. Absolutely not. And the last part of the question: Have I spoken to my partymates? I'm telling you, check out the IRL electoral platform, which says they're trying to block the hidden withdrawal of profits in the form of loans. I don't know if it's written on you. I know Aivar Sõerd has been talking about this for a long time, and all the time he said that the covert withdrawal of profits must be stopped. I have not been familiar with your party's programme, perhaps it has been said there, but we do say that the hidden withdrawal of profits in the form of loans must be prevented.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U834	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U835	Dear Minister, Apart from being yourself in very good shape, you're really in touch! I have to say, the more I read this bill, the more I like it. My question, however, is the simplicity of the tax system. If, at the moment, the tax office fails to assess the time and potential income-cost of the loans between the parent and the subsidiary, the situation will now become clearer. It's easier for the IRS. Why, then, are our own taxpayers and businesses protesting against this? So, so far, did they get the money so-called cheaper because the IRS didn't dare do their job? For them, too, it becomes easier when the rules are clear.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U836	Thank you. That's a good question. The question is whether or not there is an error in the system at the moment. Meanwhile, attempts have been made to mention that there is no problem in the system, and then suddenly it turns out that the system has a bigger problem programmed in. It is true, as you mentioned in the introduction to your question, that there seems to be some mistake at the moment. This is also demonstrated by the current debate in society. Once again, I understand that the next questioner is Mr. Near, that it reminds me a little bit of a debate about the 1000-euro bills, which is somewhat transferable here, just by the logic of the debate. If there is no problem, then it seems that there should be no such confrontation. What is certainly important and perhaps less marked is indeed the logic of the group account. In the case of group accounts and funds are made available in the short term to other members of the group for liquidity management purposes, overnight deposits, etc., the logic of the group account remains valid. This is a completely different situation, if it is already specifically a profit in the form of loans. But the logic of the group account will remain, which I think it is necessary to reject from this speaker today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U837	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U838	Thank you. Something is really wrong, as you rightly said. You don't seem to have your own truth, but you're trying to instill their truth in others. I was absolutely passionate about the truth about the 1,000-euro bill. You tried to explain why such a tax system was introduced in 2000. Do you know what the point was and who you're explaining it to? You will explain it to the author and the carrier. The idea of this draft was not only to grant freedom of investment to companies, but also to limit optimization. Not chasing every penny, but reducing optimization. But if you listen to companies so selectively, why did you agree with the power criterion of this car, which is completely contrary to the idea of a special advantage, which must be value-based? When you say that value is manipulative, and in the next sentence you say that value has the highest correlation of power, do you not think that at least your wording has some bias?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U839	Thank you for that question. No, it doesn't. At the table, it was literally the price of the car itself. It was also negotiated with businesses and it was understood that the price of a car in its nature is manipulative. The price of the car is actually the agreement between the buyer and the seller, that's the price. A number of other options were also discussed regarding possible insurance contracts and it was concluded that the capacity of cars, as I mentioned earlier, is the most accurate correlation with the price of the car, closest to that of the car, gives the most accurate information about the benefits the employer gives to its employee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U840	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U841	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! 18 years ago, Äripäev wrote that has gained a great victory for the company's income tax has disappeared. With this bill, you are sneaking corporate tax back. This winning poster, which was the front page of Äripäev, is most likely to be exactly backwards tomorrow. [[Shows the poster.]] What you're doing with this bill is sneaking back into corporate tax, plus other things. I would be happy to give you the front page, but it is so valuable that I will not give it away from our group. We can make you a copy. What is your message to all entrepreneurs who are in no way in favour of such a sneaky recovery of income tax? We met with representatives of business organisations this morning and they said that this is the most rugged change in the whole package.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U842	Before I answer, pick up that page again and take a picture. You were so sad before you looked at the fact that there weren't many people, young reform parties. Why don't you pick it up and get another picture taken? Perhaps the rest of the Members will also take time off for a moment. I was watching. Meanwhile, there were four photographers. Have you taken all the pictures? Okay, then I'll go to the answers in substance. But otherwise, I don't have a problem, so let's take some time off, take some nice pictures, and we can move on. With regard to the content side, leaving the 'election campaign aside' and speaking more about content, I think that we have no reason to be ashamed when we look at the amendments to this law amending the Income Tax Act, and I think that no one has any reason to be ashamed. I believe that the attitude in nature and the changes that we have made in terms of reducing labour taxes are correct. I have spoken to a number of entrepreneurs who have said that no one would have ever felt the 0.5% fall in social tax. I think that the impact on the state budget, as well as on people, is quite different, not only ideologically and as a message, but also as a real financial one, of a half-percent reduction in social tax and an increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500. Abolition of a half-percent reduction in social tax, 42 million, 1% would be 80 million. The increase in the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 is 150 million, so with twice the effect. It's just to understand how taxes are felt.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U843	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that for those who listen to the broadcast of the hearing and do not see a picture of our hall, the elements of body language and various illustrations are lost. Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U844	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, I see that you are in a very good mood today. I'd say whoever laughs last laughs laughs better. [[The Minister is laughing.]] But it makes me sad that it's still a cluster bill. There are so many things I would like to talk about, but two questions cannot do that. Therefore, I must inevitably focus on something. I'll come back to the car tax. The same story that was just asked here that the price of kilowatts is not true. I have a big car with a powerful motor, but since he's almost ten years old, his price is not the same as a car a few years old and a lot easier. From the previous answer, however, the question still remained that if, according to you, it is budget-neutral, how is a seven-million-dollar budget due in relation to car taxation planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U845	I wonder if we're in different halls. I have not said at any point that this change is neutral. I told a long story earlier about how we agreed with the business community that a change should not result in a situation where it becomes more expensive. When we had agreed on this, we made the changes, and it would actually mean a minus of the state budget. Given that a behavioural change is expected to occur, it becomes a minus seven million plus. I haven't said anything about neutrality at any point. It's like we're in different halls. But I'm willing to repeat it over and over and over again to explain it calmly. Once again, a good questioner, with these changes, if behaviour does not change, will actually be reduced in the national budget. We expect a behavioural change to come. If you ask us why we expect this, it is because 70% of cars get cheaper than they do now. I remember how one company, the head of the organisation, said that if you could bring the average car tax to about a hundred euros a month and not have a driving diary, it would be an 'perfect situation'. It's a little over a hundred now. Statistics exist as to the average tax on capacity-based calculation by legal persons and the extent to which it is for private individuals. All the statistics are there. This has been done for a very long time to develop this system. This kilowatt-based calculation is not a matter of the last two months. And I specifically want to tell you that, in the case of older cars, i.e. more than five years old, the level of taxation is 25% lower.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U846	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U847	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I come back to Mr Ammas's question and your answer. The question was whether it was a cluster bill or not. Logic says that there are three laws that we are changing and 13 substantive changes in these three laws. You took the right to say so patronizingly that this is not a cluster bill, that these are different points of one law, I don't know. Please repeat one more time and explain whether this is a minor technical amendment to a law or a fundamental amendment to a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U848	Thank you. I was just reminding you that either last week or the week before, we dealt with the bill, I don't remember exactly, I haven't written it down, but I think it was the law amending the securities market law, where we changed it once, I might be wrong, but maybe 28 laws. [[???Keegi kommenteerib saalist: '24 seadust.'???]] Yeah, we changed 24 laws by the Law on the Securities Market Act. We made a number of changes, essentially changing the securities law, but different nuances came in. We changed 24 laws at the same time. It's the same thing here. When we make a change due to the kilowatt-based calculation of cars, the focus is on income tax. Why are we making changes to the traffic laws we're doing there? In essence, there is a separate field in the traffic register for 100% of cars used in business, they have separate markings, a separate field and therefore an amendment to the Traffic Act is necessary. I would like to ask if you could see that we are making a separate draft law amending the law on traffic to create this one. This law in its logic is not a cluster. It has to do with the same subject. As I said before, there has really been a debate in this Chamber if I am not mistaken, the law of assisted reproduction and the law of local self-election. Now, that's really two different things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U849	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U850	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The draft containing all these tax changes, which is called a cluster or bundle, has received many negative assessments. There have been the words'reverse', 'disabling competitiveness', 'losing a simple tax environment', etc. I'm sure you've read them. According to my information, you yourself have been an entrepreneur. And if an entrepreneur becomes a politician here is a good example to take from our northern neighbours, it is believed that this politician still has some kind of inner perception and a brighter nerve to see how tax changes affect the business environment. If you were in the position of an entrepreneur, would you be equally enthusiastic when listening to these tax changes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U851	Thank you. I have recalled this before, how one of my predecessors once said that there are only 4% of the society, and then there are only 4% of the electorate, that he does not see the reason why he should pay so much attention to them. I do not agree with this, and I have also said that businesses will bring 90% of the tax revenue, that whom I will talk to if not to businesses. If we look at the amendments to this particular bill, you will see that the effects of these changes will result in a situation where Estonia's competitiveness will improve, where it will be possible in the future for foreign investors to move their income tax levels to 14% on a stable basis by paying dividends. We can see that the various activities related to possible expenditure on their employees will no longer be subject to a special preferential tax in the future. We have a lot of positive things you can't get over or around.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U852	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U853	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm actually a little surprised you're messing with that pawn tax. This is particularly due to the fact that I admit that this so-called undistributed profits is very much for companies and then there is temptation to lend, etc. At the same time, you have proposed to reduce the income tax rate for legal persons from 20% to 14%. Isn't this, in your opinion, an attractive change enough not to trick, rather to pay off 14% of dividends and peace in the house, doesn't have to do these loan agreements? In my opinion, this could sufficiently encourage the payment of profits as dividends, so as not to trick the granting of loans. Secondly, why are you not prepared to apply this 14% rate also to natural persons? In a way, this is unequal treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U854	Thank you. Of course I'll answer right away. Look, how interesting, you have now come to the point of using the words 'trickle lending'. In fact, what I've been talking about at the speaker's desk, and what you have now mentioned, is borrowing tricks. That clearly came out of your question. Your question was that perhaps bringing down the tax percentage would reduce the trickery of loans. This is what we have been talking about in this Chamber today, whether or not loans are being tricked or not. Now you have also stated in the introduction to your question that loans are actually tricked. I think that's a reasonable point. I think that this is a combination of taking 20% to 14%, which will stimulate the payment of dividends to the owner, being combined with the collateralisation of possible loans, one of you is supporting the other. I would also point out that, if, for some reason, a subsidiary really needs to make an urgent payment to a parent that exceeds the share capital provided by the parent and the possible foreign capital involved, if, for example, the subsidiary has raised separate capital from the bank and gives it to the parent company, it is not a profit, but a transfer of foreign capital. What exceeds foreign capital and share capital is profit. So these things are intertwined, and I think this interaction works very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U855	Lauri Luik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U856	Thank you. Good minister! Yesterday, the head of your government from this very talking board said that the business environment must be simple, predictable and supportive. I am now reading in the news how your party's new chairman says that the coalition partners are ready for the debate on the amendment of the tax package, and they want to take back on the table a pledge tax, packaging excise duty, sweeter. What are we really going to discuss here today when you start taking it all apart again in the coalition? What kind of signal does this give to entrepreneurs to whom you have promised a predictable and supportive business environment?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U857	Thank you. As has already been said, no draft that has arrived here, either today or in the future, has been shut down by a member of the Riigikogu in an earlier discussion. I was then forced to say that Parliament, not anyone else, would finally shut it down. I do not think that any of the drafts will be in such a state when Parliament arrives that it no longer needs to work on it. All the drafts have been made according to best knowledge and best assumptions. If there are any ideas where, for example, you would like to give your inputs, then be bold and give these inputs. I think this is the place where we actually debate, both this draft and all future drafts, as well as those that are already in Parliament's proceedings. So regardless of whether you are a party chairman or which party you are, everyone should have the opportunity, if there is a desire, to give input to improve the drafts. The aim is always one: the drafts must get better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U858	The first reading of the bill continues with the question of Taavi Kõivas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U859	Thank you. Grab hold of the word, I do have a suggestion on how to improve this bill. At least 80% of this bill could be put back in a drawer and everyone would be better, including Estonian entrepreneurs and the economy. But I didn't want to ask about it. We both know Mart Laari, and we know that his image was often in front of him, but in spite of everything, Mart Laar had this image of the spokesperson for the right-wing economic and tax policy and is still there to this day. At the moment, as Minister of the IRL, you have come into a position where you must be the spokesperson for six new taxes, and with this you are turning not only on the legacy of the Reform Party, but also on the legacy of one of the founders of your party, Mart Laar. I'm not asking what it's like. I know this feeling can't be good because a lot of history you rewrite. Don't you think it's time for the IRL to return to its worldview and admit that some things have been done wrong in life?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U860	Thank you. We are both people with long-term political experience. In that sense, you went a little slippery. I remember that in 2014, when the Reform Party made a coalition with social democrats, with our current good partners, and the IRL went to the opposition, there was universal child support. Then Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi said through his teeth that this universal child support is not a good thing that should be needs-based, not universal, but there is nothing to be done, it has to be done, it is a coalition agreement. I think we need to look at the whole picture. I guess coalitions need a full picture. The question is, what changes are being brought about. I understand from this point of view that you brought about some changes at the time, in 2014. And you have to look at the whole picture. I don't blame you for anything, so you have to look at the whole picture of the changes you really want to make. If we want to bring about an important reform in terms of reducing labour taxes, in other words, by raising the tax-free minimum to EUR 500 from 1 January, I have already said that it would have taken 30 years for us to move forward with you at this rate, by raising this minimum to EUR 10 per year. To reach from 180 to 500, it would have taken 30 years. I am saying this to understand how important a reform we are now doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U861	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U862	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! Your last sentence should be taken immediately. The truth you said that would have been 30 years is the same as you would have told me that in 18 years I will be 70. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I'd be happy to refer what a cluster means. The cluster is an upright or hanging flower with long main axis and short blooms, with slivered flowers attached to the main axis in a spiral, opposite or one-sided way, and the flowers burst from the flower to the top. It makes no sense for us to argue whether or not it is a cluster, because it is a very clear cluster. Can you explain to me what benefits a kilowatt gives to a person who can use a professional car for personal purposes? If you even claim that a 10 or 20 year old car with the same number of kilowatts as a new car will receive a 25% discount, where is justice in terms of price?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U863	Thank you. I see that today the Reform Party is carried by such a beautiful philological spirit. I think it makes sense, of course, to google and see what one or the other word in its nature means. I didn't get a chance to write the question, you got to the fact that the bunch are flowers and vertices and something else, you brought it there, I get the terms, and then you said it's a bunch now. I don't know what flowers and vertices are in this particular bill, but that's that. As far as car taxation is concerned, the true story, as I mentioned before, is the best correlation of kilowatts. It would also have been possible to build on the CO2 base, for example, insurance contracts could have been used as a basis. In some countries, insurance policies are the basis. If the insurance company insures, he'll make some kind of evaluation of the car. The SWOT analysis looked at what are the pros and cons and concluded that the KWT is the best correlation. And I will mention one more thing that is certainly important. Sometimes it has been said that perhaps there has been little talk with one business organisation or another. I've also said this before that it doesn't matter whether a person has a car or not, he always wants to talk about it, the car is always a subject, both at the wedding and at the funeral. That is why we deliberately prepared the change long and long in advance, which has been up for over a year, since the last coalition. All the nuances have been thoroughly negotiated: the price per kilowatt and the possible differences associated with it have been analysed how many cars go into one sector or another. A long and thorough analysis has been carried out. And notice, the burden of proof also changes. If until now the burden of proof has been for mixed use in the sense that you fill in driving journals and so on, then it is now transferred from mixed use to 100%. There's actually this place where an entrepreneur says that the state, pay me back a hundred percent of the VAT because I only use the car for private business and I don't want to pay any percent of the special tax. There will be a burden of proof. This obligation is no longer in mixed use. So it turns the other way, as it really should be, and it has been negotiated with businesses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U864	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U865	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! Let's continue our debate. You told Taavi Clothes that it would have taken 30 years, but it seems to me that you're not going 30 years in time, but 20 years ago. I recall 1999 once again, the moment when companies received income tax exemptions. Now you will sneak it back and give it back to the Estonian business environment for its 100th birthday in the form of a pledge tax, in such a disguised form of corporate tax. Our success has been a simple and transparent tax system. Now there will be much more of these trick-or-treating opportunities. In fact, at the time when the current system was introduced, trickery was reduced and a clear and transparent environment was created for companies to reinvest. Do you at least admit that you make Estonia's tax environment more complicated, more tricky and more opaque, especially for business?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U866	Thank you. Thank you for your question. First of all, you should agree between each other on whether or not this is a trick. Your party is making so different signals, one says that there are tricks, and builds up his question on it, the other says that there is no tricks. You should also set up inter-party communication, I think it is important. As far as income tax returns are concerned, there is certainly a need to sort this out. No, there is no change in the income tax system, and I think there is no reason to change it. As long as new projects are reinvested, no income tax will be charged on this money. Income tax is only acceptable if it is no longer recommended to reinvest and if it is intended to return the money to its owner. Only then! It will certainly be the case that if a subsidiary wishes to undertake new projects, initiate any new projects, there will be no problem, no EUR tax will be charged. Don't confuse the public with this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U867	Please, Maris Lauri!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U868	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! I actually had another question in mind, but now I have to correct you against this previous answer. You said there would be no changes in income tax. I'm sorry, what's a pawn tax? This is taxation before the distribution of dividends. So what's the tax on the banks that's coming? It's just like a normal liver. I'm sorry, but you don't sound credible in this context, all the more so when the alleged pledge tax was introduced, it was said that profits were being taken out of Estonia and that it had to be suppressed somehow. After all, it falls mainly on Estonia's own companies, which do not take their profits out of nowhere, not as a loan, which is a completely practical thing, and in no way a transfer, which, I do not know how much it is or will not be done. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] Maybe in your head you can somehow correct these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U869	Thank you, Madame Asker! You may be able to ask one more question today, and then you will finally tell me that all the questions were left unanswered. It'll always be like this for you, and I'll wait for it. I'd even use a little different terminology. We've been talking more and more about pawn tax here. I think it would be appropriate to use the word 'guarantee money' in termological terms. I think that would actually be fair, because this is not a new tax. If you pay dividends, you pay income tax. There is no new tax! If you pay dividends, you pay income tax on dividends. And if you pay back the loan in two years, you will also receive the deposit. If you hold it up for more than two years as a loan, it will be treated as an actual dividend payment from a subsidiary to a parent company. It is certainly not a new type of tax for a given example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U870	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U871	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister, you grabbed the word "tricking." In fact, there's trickery in every aspect of life, so let's talk about lending, paying taxes or anything. But it is certainly not dominant. Intra-group lending, especially when we are talking about Estonian groups, is a very normal, well-founded and logical economic activity. You're saying they don't take that money right now, but with the deposit, you're still freezing this company's money. On one end, you would say that you do not want foreign banks to move profits out of here without paying the tax, but now this company has to go to the bank and take a loan to make an investment on the deposit. It's very hard to understand. Another thing I couldn't answer. I asked why the taxation of dividends is different for legal persons and for natural persons. The third thing is exceptions. I'm surprised to hear from you that exceptions are very good things. Rather, they are Satan and are tempted to evade taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U872	Thank you. There were quite a few things. I hope I didn't miss anything. The exceptions, the difference between legal and private persons and the group account, these are three things that I quickly caught on the flight. I'm trying to comment on all of them now that it's 11:01. First of all, let's talk about a group account. I have said this before, too, that a group account in its logic as a comprehensive liquidity management does not go away. There shall be no obligation to pay the deposit in the management of liquidity. If it is not the management of a group account, but the crediting of an informed parent company of a subsidiary and the parent directs it elsewhere, then it is no longer a subsidiary interest, but it is now an interest of the parent company. Consequently, there should be either a deposit or, in fact, a dividend payment in its nature. That's one. The other thing is exceptions. No, I didn't say all the exceptions were good. I've been meaning to say that the world is not black and white. There was a time when no exceptions were to be mentioned. I'm sorry to say this, but I wasn't supposed to. I remember the people of your party who said, "Hey, Sven, this channeling money into the health care system is a good thing," and we'll do it soon. Now we've done it, so it's really good. The third thing was the difference between legal persons and private persons. In summary, nothing changes in the tax logic of a private individual. This is important because not to increase further the potential, say, inequality in capital gains when you receive dividends through a potential private limited company, and in your labour taxes, where you are also forced to pay social tax if you are an employer in your private limited company. That would make the difference even bigger, and no one would want it. The Estonian private person still has a 20% level and it is suitable for all parties involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U873	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U874	Mr. Minister! I really liked the way you answered someone's question some time ago in an illustrative way, which you think should be considered a cluster law. I do not know if you are informed that two major draft laws have come to the Riigikogu from your ministry in the field of work of the youngest minister, drafts with numbers 432 and 433, which exactly correspond to your definition. There are, for example, changes to definitions of the Feed Act, some drafting changes to parts of the Pharmaceutical Act and the Health Services Organisation Act that have not yet entered into force, related to issues of administrative reform and the liquidation of rural governments, etc. My question is, could you perhaps help a younger minister who has been disinformed by his officials to get less of this kind of cluster law out of there?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U875	Thank you, good questioner. I always bow to your long-standing political experience. We certainly don't have senior and junior ministers. Everyone is equal in government, regardless of age, but also political experience. But if you were to pay attention to one or the other draft, given the logic of this definition, I really should look specifically at whether, in connection with the abolition of rural governments, if it still relates to the abolition of rural governments, there will automatically be some changes, whether or not there is an automatic need for change. Once again, if there is an automatic need for change, it is very likely that it is not a cluster bill in the classic sense. If you don't have to, I'm sure it's worth a look. As mentioned earlier, 24 laws are amended by amending the Securities Market Act. Normal, logical, understandable that with this single legislative amendment, you need to make changes to certain provisions, and no one treats it as a cluster bill. As far as this example is concerned, I think that it went into the verbatim now, it will probably be clear after that whether or not it is this classic cluster bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U876	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U877	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have a question about the private use of the employer's vehicle. You yourself have such an example here that a five-year-old vehicle, with a low capacity in any case, will have to pay EUR 111. But let's just say it's only a couple of private trips, 20 kilometers, and it's still worth 111 euros. Is there no situation in this diary loss that can be compared to train travel, that a single ticket can no longer be bought, that the state can only buy a monthly ticket and that few little trips can no longer be made with less money? Is that fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U878	Thank you for this question. To some extent I answered that question by Mr Ammas, but I repeat that. Here is the question of the same logic, how to say now, simplicity versus justice. Well, the example is that if you want to do everything really fair, you should write every mile somewhere, fixing whether it's a private trip or a work trip. Each last mile is written as a very fair one. Finally, we find out that 17.5% of your trips this month were private trips, for example. Very fair, with well-set kilometres, we assume, of course, that no one is cheating, that we are still taking this logic, but there is no simplicity at all, not for any party, not for anyone who writes down, nor for the one to whom the reports are submitted. This is always the question of simplicity and justice. Today, perhaps more simplicity has been achieved, so that it can be very simple, very clear, well understood. There's no diary. If you take the decision to pay off a kilowatt-based car discount tax, drive as much as you want, less or more. It's very simple, well understood. If you say you don't use this car for private travel, it's only used by your company every day, then you don't have to pay at all. Moreover, you will also receive 100% VAT from the state, because you declare that it is only a car in your business. Very simple! These are always the contexts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U879	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U880	I hope the waitress doesn't confuse weakness and generosity. I'll give you a very kind chance. I'll meet you. I don't know if you deserve it or not, but in a kind manner, I will ask you a question that will enable you to answer intelligently if you want to do so. Namely, what's its law, I don't know what, a bunch or what, the balance? I mean, how much do you collect, how much do you divide into election promises and what's the balance? Please answer the numbers!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U881	Thank you. I always enjoy the debate with you, and I think one in two hours, when we're at the next bill, I can enjoy this debate even more. Of course, it's always good to have a debate with you, and so it is now. Let's get through this thing real quick. I think we can definitely send you, if you want, separate numbers for all the changes later. But I'm trying to go through these things. It's a mortgage. It's a deposit. Next and next year, €0 and €2020/2021. EUR 18 million in 2005. Let's keep looking at a 14% tax reduction. We have had a lot of debate here in the past with Mr Aivar Sõerd, just over the tax burden. Why am I bringing this tax burden into the answer now? The reduction of the income tax rate from 20% to 14% increases the tax burden on Estonia. You have rightly heard that lowering the tax rate from 20% to 14% increases the tax burden. How is that possible? Because today, we are stimulating Mrs Laine Randjärv here to give us a special overview of the stimulation that has also made the companies pay dividends. The premature payment of dividends to the state budget increases the tax burden. If you ask me how much it is, I'd say it's assumed next year that it'll be 98 million, in 2019 I'll be offering 63 million by heart again. Let's not forget that the average level reaches 14%. When it comes to the kilowatt taxation of cars, we have discussed here with colleagues from the EKRE about what the balance will eventually turn out to be, specifically, the draft law on this shear. If there's no behavioural change, we're going to see a minus at least in the order of 5 million. However, we expect a behavioural change and ultimately a 7 million plus. We see that each position has its own financial dimension and measure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U882	George Adams, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U883	Mr. Minister! My second question is in the same area of clustering. I think you yourself have been a long-term member of the Riigikogu and you can probably understand our current situation, where the President of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor and his colleagues and officials, forces the Constitutional Committee to deal with definitions of the Feed Act or the Fines Act, even though neither our officials nor members of the committee have any qualifications in this area. Instead of sending these drafts to the relevant committee, we are being forced to do such a mercenary thing. Maybe you can help us with the government side. That if we fail to get Mr Nestor to work reasonably, then maybe the government would send a bunch of drafts cut up here, so I don't have to learn about feed law matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U884	Thank you, good George Adams! As a member of the government, I do not want to interfere with Parliament's self-regulation and internal activities. I think the debate between us was also reflected in some sort of verbogram, and I can't tell you if you're right to say that right now. I really can't say that exactly. It is clear that if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is forced to deal with the feed law and to deal with the substance, it will certainly be difficult. But once again, I do not dare to be more specific about this example. Mr. Speaker will be there himself, so he can comment later.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U885	Urmas Kruuse, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U886	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! By reading out the academic definition of the cluster, I really wanted to support you. All the time, it feels like you're trying to fight it, you don't even want to take the word "cobar" in your mouth. I wanted to encourage you by saying that this concept is defined and corresponds exactly to the arguments you have put forward. If you are prepared for any changes, perhaps there are more of your supporters and fans in this Chamber at the moment than in your party, at least judging by the news of this evening, which reflects what your chairman has said. But I was amazed at one thing. When you described the car tax, you compared justice and simplicity. I dare to criticise and say that fairness is a very important value when it comes to taxing, because those who are going to pay some kind of tax and act on it must also feel that it is fair. Therefore, my colleague Sõerdi's observation would deserve more attention than you initially pointed out.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U887	Thank you. There was no question here, there was an opinion, but I will take this opportunity to respond to this opinion with my own opinion. I think that I have spent a long time on every question that has been put in this Chamber today, and I cannot say that I have not paid attention to a few questions. I am sure that I have also paid attention to Mr Sõerdi's questions. But it's right that there's a question of where this center should be. In fact, we could turn this thing the other way around, i.e. counting every kilometre and going to the point of basically checking every kilometre. For some reason, however, the operators to whom this particular change is addressed have wanted the journey log to be abolished. They've come up with that idea. They said they wouldn't want to keep a driving diary anymore, they'd want it to be clear, simple, understandable. Finally, a kilowatt-based approach was agreed, which is understandable in the light of the logic of the tax on the good. This is, in fact, a business proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U888	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U889	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Indeed, on the one hand, your endurance must be commended, a compliment! On the other hand, I am pleased that at least one question in this Chamber broadened your horizons, as you said recently, you have learned something. However, I have such a question. You said they were talking about cars at weddings and funerals. Since when, then, has the style of talking about cars at weddings and funerals led to changes in the law? Where are the substantive arguments, analyses, justifications?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U890	Thank you. I understand we're going to end up here quietly. I would say that we have already come to such philosophical discussions. When you started your question about me learning at least one thing today, I think I've learned a lot today. I think the debate has been very good, and not only in relation to this particular draft, but the debate is very good today. I've really liked this debate. The question is how the debate will be built. I understand we have different political visions. Trying to give any signals, questions are raised in the introduction sometimes with sentences that the respondent has not said. It's normal, it's all understandable. I think it's been a really good debate. As far as your question is concerned, what you said about weddings and funerals, I was speaking in a transferred sense. I just wanted to say that cars have always been a topic they want to talk about, whether a person has a car or not. It's kind of a matter of some kind. That's why everything that concerns cars is always under more attention. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U891	Thank you. No further questions. I would now ask for the presentation by the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Chair Chair, Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U892	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, By way of introduction, the experiment was successful. In my opinion, it was now tried that if the Minister of Finance asked the same question three, four or five times, whether he would change his mind or still answer the same thing. He's definitely going to continue his line. But now what happened in the Commission. The Commission examined the proposed amendments on 5 May and later held a meeting on the same item on 9 May. It is customary for the Minister to present the content of this draft. After that there was a debate and there were some questions. The three questions raised in this debate were included in the debate that was in this Chamber today. A few things that were discussed in the committee, I will introduce you. A brief discussion was started on whether this was a cluster bill or not. The answer was that all amendments relate to income tax, VAT law and traffic law are amended as a result of changes in the regulation of the special advantage in the Income Tax Act. There was no more experimentation on this subject. There was a question of how the Minister would comment on the change in the tax regime for banks' profits for foreign investors. The system is changing, taxed on earned profits, not distributed profits. The Minister's reply was that the banks have been negotiated and their proposals have been taken into account. Why are the changes so urgent? The answer was that some of the changes have been in work longer, even for a very long time, some have been discussed more briefly. For example, questions concerning passenger cars have been discussed for a year and a half. The issue of options and the regulation of the corporate account and the tax rate for mature companies have also been discussed at length. This has been on the agenda before. A rather interesting discussion arose on intra-group, parent and subsidiary loans. The Minister replied that there were two types of intra-group loans. If the parent invests in a subsidiary, it is the parent's business. If a subsidiary is assisting a parent company, it is not a daughter's business, it is a distribution of profits under the loan label. New regulation is needed and will be needed to prevent tax avoidance. What is the problem with intra-group loans? I admit I personally was shocked when I heard that number. The issue was raised by auditors. There are many claims against Estonian companies. In particular, in 2015, these claims amounted to EUR 800 million. Will there be corporate income tax on banks? Answer: An advance payment of 14%. In fact, the Minister has already responded to this several times. What do those who have claims do? We're talking about that 800 million. The answer was that this law cannot be enforced retroactively; it will apply to loans from the entry into force of the law and even when the old agreement is amended. What is the budgetary impact of the receipt of advance payments? According to the forecast of 27 million in 2018. That's what the minister was talking about. The questions also concerned the linking of the price of the special incentive for passenger cars to capacity and the amount to be charged to the budget. This will amount to 1.3 euros per kilowatt per month, and the state budget is planned to receive 5 to 7 million. The Commission also took procedural decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this draft law be sent to the Chamber by today, 17 May, with the proposal to terminate the first reading (with 6 and 5 committee members against, 0 abstentions) and to set 10 working days for the amendments, i.e. 31 May at 5.15 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U893	There are also questions for the rapporteur. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U894	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! I understand that there is a very big debate in the corridors of the Riigikogu about what the cluster law is. Did the Committee on Monetary Affairs hold a debate on the concept and nature of the cluster law, and what conclusion was reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U895	Thank you. This question arose at the beginning of the debate and is summarised here in practically one sentence in my report. Actually, there were three or four questions. The minister told us exactly what he told us here today, and that opinion was fixed. That is all I can say on behalf of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. But given the great interest and even the excitement of the word 'kbar' once in this hall, I don't know what complexes stand behind it, I think we should consider giving a precise definition somewhere. The word 'cobar' may not fit so well into the law, maybe it's possible to find some parallel definition. It seems that it needs to be properly defined. Otherwise, we'll be here for years blaming each other and discussing whether there's cluster law or no cluster law, one talking about one thing and the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U896	No further questions. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. First I ask for a speech chair on behalf of the Group of the Estonian Free Party Andres Ammas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U897	Honourable President! I would have very much liked to say the honorable Prime Minister and Honourable Minister of Finance, who figured out here on the backside a moment ago, but they've already been able to leave the hall. Very respectable colleagues, members of the Riigikogu! Business organisations and the taxpayers' union cannot express their opinion in this Chamber today, and that is why I am also taking their views on this point, especially because the opinions of the Free Party Group largely coincide with those positions. In its letter, the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Estonian Employers' Confederation have very clearly highlighted the problems of the draft we are dealing with, and I quote: '... The changes have been made without haste and thought through, reduce the confidence of entrepreneurs, the willingness to invest and the attractiveness of the Estonian business environment and give the impression that the rule of law and tax laws do not apply to the government. Several tax changes run counter to the current principle of keeping the tax system simple and effective and even the official position of Estonia on the European Commission's initiatives to harmonise the corporate tax base. " Very clear talk, but it seems not for the government. As we have already heard here today, the draft, which we are talking about today, is not preceded by the development plan that the draft preparer must draw up according to the rules of good regulation and regulation. Yes, it has been agreed that, in certain exceptional cases, it may not be produced, for example in a crisis, whether it be an economic crisis, a natural disaster or something similar. But we are far from having a crisis, and therefore there is no urgent need. It is only the decision of the government coalition that we are processing the draft tax amendment urgently. In my opinion, the business organisations in their letter have actually formulated what is necessary for a draft law to be drawn up in the first place. I quote: 'It formulates the nature and desirable objective of the problem and analyses the various alternatives and their effects. It is only after the preparation of the planned development that a decision can be made as to whether and with which action the problem should be addressed. ' But the opposite has been done now, before the solution has been chosen, and then it has begun to justify it. In its letter, the Estonian Taxpayers' Association has pointed out the risk that, if both fundamental changes are rushed, significant shortcomings and legal gaps may not be revealed until the law is implemented, and all of this can end with endless litigation or retroactive tax refunds. There is indeed plenty of questioning in the draft, which needs to be discussed further. For example, the same issue of preventing the indirect withdrawal of profits from a long-spoken company. Indeed, some foreign companies have done so and abused their options, either in the form of a loan to the parent company or to other companies belonging to the same group, rather than the withdrawal of dividends. When I spoke about it a few hours ago with a good colleague, a Social Democrat in this hallway, he expressed the opinion that the entrepreneurs must have been guilty, or not guilty, of their own fault, but have made the draft that we are discussing here. In my opinion, however, with this tax amendment that is now being proposed, one proverb comes to mind: where the forest is being cut, the chips are falling. Because this law also applies to local companies who simply want to spread their risks. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U898	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U899	I would like to remind you, here, of the possibilities repeatedly highlighted in the press that it is actually possible for you to influence fairer behaviour even now, so that the relevant court decisions are fully in place. This bill once again says a slipper instead of a wolf, or it is thought that it will work more easily than to come up with a new complicated term. In essence, they want to impose income tax on banks, as it once was in Estonia, but it is called the planned advance payment, which will apply even if the banks do not plan to pay dividends. On this point, experts have raised a legitimate question as to whether such a principle does not conflict with the principle of equal treatment. The economic journalist of the Postimees Tõnis Oja has rightly asked which sector must then be afraid that the tax axe will rise above his head, because in my opinion the government is now based only on one principle: to take from where it can be taken. In this Chamber, perhaps even to the point of boredom, we have debated whether or not the current draft is a cluster bill, and I would like to say to the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs that there are no complexes here. But indeed, I will stick to my own opinion, whether it be chopped or cut to pieces: I think it is a cluster bill. There are both positive and negative changes to this draft, and it is obviously very difficult to vote on it at all. This letter from business organisations, which I have already quoted a lot, highlighted the strange fact that, first of all, these changes were coordinated one by one, and then, incomprehensiblely, they were all put together in a single draft. Why, then, could these more important, important ones not be dealt with separately? We do not want all of these changes to have been dealt with separately, but why couldn't the bank's income tax, separate pledge tax, separate everything about cars, really have been dealt with in three or four drafts. Why did they put it all together? Well, excuse me, but actually, we all know the answer here. Such questionable tax changes, together with positive changes, are to be pushed through. The criticism has been answered that yes, there is a clear strain in this draft, that all are changes in income tax. Excuse me, I think that all of these changes that are being processed today have only one strain of this strain: haste, rabbiation and imposition of the political will of the government coalition. In the light of the very foregoing, as you can imagine, the Free Party Group does not consider it appropriate to proceed with this draft. The changes that have been incorporated here should be dealt with separately, so we can vote in favour of a number of changes with a calm heart. But now the negative outweighs the positive, and we propose to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U900	Next, please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U901	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft before us at the same time deals with more favourable taxation of options, the introduction of a 14% tax rate on dividends from mature companies, the calculation of the kilowatt-based special benefit for corporate cars and the obligation for banks to pay advances on income tax and introduces a new system of statutory income tax. I am on the side of those who say that the amendments do not have one common goal, the famous word'strain problem', if you want to, apart from the fact that these amendments are part of the Income Tax Act. This is the formal side of the criticism of the Reform Party Group. The changes concerning banking, very many companies, but also the taxation of passenger cars, I am talking about company cars, should be treated separately, not as a cluster, as the government has proposed to the Riigikogu. In our opinion, these changes are the most negative form of a mortgage tax system and its implementation. Business-to-business lending is a perfectly normal business activity, and it is probably not disputed by anyone. The problem of profit shifting in the shadow of lending exists in Estonia, but the introduction of a system of statutory income tax proposed by the IRL and the government penalises all economic operators. The assumption, as I learned before when I asked the Minister of Finance, is that it is as if all entrepreneurs are tricking or cheating. I would point out that according to the Tax Administration Act, the Tax and Customs Board is already able to assess inter-company loans according to their actual content. In his replies, the Minister said that he did not support the development of case law. He then supports the complexity of businesses' lives, the increase in bureaucracy and the proposed system of pawn tax. According to the Reform Party, the Tax and Customs Board should be supported through loans to combat the withdrawal of profits from Estonia, not to create a new income tax system, a system of statutory income tax. This is partly a return to corporate tax and has a negative impact on businesses' business activities. The change will make the lives of entrepreneurs more bureaucratic and force companies to think about various schemes that we do not really want Estonia to think about. However, this is what happens when this change is implemented. This change directly concerns the liquidity of companies. This means that money will be more expensive, and it will have a direct impact on the economic performance of companies. When the Minister of Finance says here that tax revenue is not planned through this bill for the next two years, the price of money will be more expensive for companies. That is a clear fact. The Minister of Finance drew a parallel with the debate on VAT declarations processed in the Riigikogu two years ago. I myself was the leading judge of the then draft, I remember it very well, and I say that these things are absolutely not comparable. At the time, entrepreneurs understood very well that VAT returns are being introduced for a more honest business environment. The system of pledge tax, which is currently being carried out, I do not remember the amount of criticism that has come from businesses about this system. These things are absolutely not comparable. The Reform Party Group would like to support the transition from this draft to a more favourable taxation of participation options, including a lower rate of dividend income tax for mature companies, but we cannot in any way support the application of the system of statutory income tax and advance income tax for banks. It is a stem problem, as the previous speaker said, that some things would like to be supported, but since everything is put in a single set, we cannot support them. As a result of the above, we propose to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U902	Next, please, Kersti Sarapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U903	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we have heard a great deal of criticism of how the new government coalition has gone down the path of cluster billing. At times, it seems that the opposition is producing simultaneous changes to each of the two or more draft laws into a cluster bill. However, the draft law amending this particular draft law, the Income Tax Act, the VAT Act and the Traffic Act is a draft, the amendments of which all relate, to a lesser or greater extent, to changes to the Income Tax Act. I guess there is no point in adding that these are the changes that have been expected by businesses for many years, which will solve their problems at several levels. An extremely sad situation has arisen, where the draft has also received a green light from the Legal Aid Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, but the opposition, instead of talking about substantive changes, goes into the form. For my part, however, I would like to point out substantive changes. The draft will in the future provide the company with the possibility to cover the cost of accommodation for the employee, free of charge, and no longer treat the employer's expenses for the transport of workers as a special advantage. From now on, the special benefit can be declared only on a kilowatt basis, regardless of the distance travelled as private journeys, for both professional and personal journeys with the use of the company's passenger car. However, the most important point in the draft to promote entrepreneurship concerns the introduction of a lower rate of income tax on regular company profit distributions: 14% will replace the current 20%. The list of changes made for the benefit of businesses is, of course, much longer. My message on this draft is actually simple: entrepreneurs have been waiting a long time for such changes and the content is ultimately what counts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U904	Martin Helme next, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U905	Dear Deputy Speaker! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, It was interesting now to hear from the previous speaker that entrepreneurs have been looking forward to paying the country more. I'm questioning that. I'm sorry. Of course, this bill is a cluster bill. It's impossible to name a bill in any other way where all the things that are here together are together. Before, the minister said to answer one of my questions that I had mixed everything up like mush and cabbages. Minister, this bill is mush and cabbages! And the problem is the same as all the other opposition parties, probably the same as all coalition parties: there are things that we like, but there are things that we cannot accept in any way. Unlike the Reform Party, I have nothing against bank tax. It's in our party's program. I am critical of how it is to be implemented. In particular, there are two points of criticism. One thing is that in the case of money today, basically everything is forgiven, i.e. nothing is done about it, it went as it did. There is no attempt to motivate you to return it to Estonia or pay any tax on it. Secondly, it will only be implemented in a year and a half, which means that all multinational multinational corporations or banks, all those who go under this law, will receive as much as possible in the coming months, as far as they can, making use of legal loopholes, and the last money to be transferred out of Estonia. In principle, however, I do not dispute that banks could also be taxed and that this is a reasonable opportunity to fill the Estonian state budget. I also have no ideological allergy to what is essentially called a partial return to corporate tax. I think it is a completely legitimate debate in Estonia about how much it could be or whether it should be. But I would like it to be a separate draft so that we can discuss the content of this draft separately. That's completely impossible right now. I can ask the Minister two questions, but there are four or five taxes. You can't have a debate like that, it's just not possible. And then, of course, the whole thing that's going on around the car tax. Oh, come on! It's not something that entrepreneurs all slap in the back for joy. It's just a version of the car tax that was finally going to be imposed on everyone. It was then considered that it could not be imposed on private individuals, otherwise it would be too big, and then, as is always the case in the left-wing government, it was decided that buržu would be beaten, or taken from entrepreneurs. It is simply a disgusting, two-faced, ordinary budget implementation measure that we are being tried to sell here by means of a change of scenes as a reasonable solution to the use of companies' cars. No, there is no reasonable solution. There are still things that could be criticised. The uniform is of course important. Frankly, I still don't understand how a government representative can come to the remote and tell you not to pick on the uniform now. Parliament is also working on the norm, the norm is important. But basically, however, the question is that if we push into a single session such weighty laws and some of these laws are still so concise that the topics to be resolved will continue for several sessions, there is no debate to be discussed, we are talking about road roller tactics. We are talking, by the way, that the coalition is once again doing what has happened here before, perhaps reducing Parliament's role, basically swallowing everything that the government has put together. It's just disgusting to look at. So that is why our group also proposes to reject this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U906	Rock Hard, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U907	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good friends from the opposition! It is not by introducing in the draft such provisions of a law that you like, and such provisions that you do not like, that this bill is not yet a cluster bill. If you say today that this is a cluster bill, I wouldn't put it under the cluster bill classification. And, as the Minister said, we had here just last week in the proceedings a draft in which 24 laws were amended within the framework of the same bill, but it was not considered a cluster bill. But well, if you like to call it a cluster bill and live in this bubble, there you go! Now a little bit about the content, and not only about the draft that we are currently dealing with here, but about all our current draft amendments to the tax system as a whole. Of course, there is a great deal in these drafts that we are improving public health, but at the same time no one on this board has denied that we are also improving fiscal policy. So if the opposition says there's a hole that's now being filled, then yes, this hole is, and if you take the hole as a whole, that's fixing our human assets. Greater family benefits, very much money for the health insurance fund, raising the income limit, raising the income tax-free minimum, increasing the pay of kindergarten teachers and schoolteachers, this is all that improves our human resources as a whole. And when we talk about entrepreneurship, I hope our friends in the opposition know what our entrepreneurs are saying, what is the biggest problem, and what is already holding back Estonian economic growth, this is our workforce, or, more broadly, human resources. If we do not improve it, where will our growth come from? Of course, tax increases are not all possible, additional things are pleasant. However, these are not an end in themselves, but are all about filling the same hole as you want to call it, and the contents of this hole are our Estonian people. So the Social Democratic Party Group supports all these proposals for tax changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U908	There's no more calls. The commission has proposed to stop the first reading of draft 458, but we have also received a proposal from three groups to reject the draft 458 at first reading. We will, of course, put this proposal to the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the EKRE Group, the Estonian Free Party Group and the Reform Party Group 458 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 39 votes in favour and 53 members of the Riigikogu against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported and draft 458 first reading has been completed. I will set the deadline for submitting 458 amendments, including 31 May at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U909	Today's 13th item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like to ask Sven Sester, Minister of Finance, as the initiator's waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U910	Hi! I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 456. For all those who do not know what is behind this number, this is a draft law amending the state budget law. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! You really have before you a draft law amending the State Budget Act. The State Budget Act is the most important law that directs the financial management of the state. By this law, you members of the Riigikogu have established clear frameworks for organising state finances. There have been three impulses to change these frameworks: your own proposals, the goals of the government union and the need to reduce the workload of budgeting. First of all, we discussed the organisation of Estonian fiscal policy as an important national issue in this Chamber last 14 June. The starting point for the discussion was the report prepared by the Riigikogu, which also made proposals for legislative changes. Several of them will implement the bill before you. For example, when the draft is adopted as a law, the government is obliged to present an overview of the investments planned in the next four years with the state budget. The government's priority is economic growth. Only faster growth will enable more action to be taken in terms of population, security and people's well-being. In monetary policy, it means stimulating the economy when economic growth is below natural levels and cooling when the economy is starting to overheat. The draft clarifies the rules so that the structural surplus of previous years can be used in the future to stimulate the economy by means of investment. This opportunity will be used by the government in the coming years. I would like to stress once again that this does not mean abandoning the current fiscal policy, but that we look at the objective of balance as a multi-annual average. If there is no previous surplus, it will not be possible to use it, and so the budget will always be balanced in the long term. Nor does such an arrangement imply significant risks to the budget, because we are planning to make investments that are final and not to increase running costs. The most important asset in Estonia is people's time and it is important to use it wisely. Work that does not create value must be avoided in the public sector. Under the current law, we prepare and hold fiscal debates three times each year. The change in the state budget strategy, the state budget as well as the state budget for the current year need to be dealt with separately. All this, even if there has been no change in the economic situation and objectives. The draft will make the government's work in preparing the state budget more flexible. Honourable Riigikogu! Now I will be a little more specific about the major changes to the draft. I share these three groups: improvements to the budget information submitted to the Riigikogu, changes to the structural balance rule and changes in the preparation of budgetary documents. After last year's debate, we have been looking for ways to make the longer view of public finances more accessible and understandable to you and the public. I agree that budgetary policy in the Riigikogu must be shaped beyond one financial year. There is a bill before you that will give you more information to process the budget. From now on, you will get a longer view of public finances. The four-year view of the budgetary strategy is presented in the explanatory memorandum to the state budget. The explanatory memorandum to the national budget describes the impact of budgetary decisions not for one year but for four years. So far, the multi-annual view of fiscal policy has been the government's responsibility. The amendment of the State Budget Act will provide both the public and the Riigikogu with a better overview of the state's financial situation and plans in the next four years. In addition, the draft imposes an obligation on the government to provide a more comprehensive description of the planned economic activity. This year's state budget has been drawn up for the first time on an accrual basis. This means that the same financial forecasts used to work in the private sector can be included in the state budget. The explanatory memorandum to the state budget will provide you with the planned investments, the budgetary balance sheet and the forecast of the state's cash flows. In turn, the accrual basis is a prerequisite for the use of an activity-based budget. In the above mentioned report on the fiscal policy of the Riigikogu, you proposed to move to an activity-based budget as soon as possible. The State Budget Act established that the changeover had to be made in the 2020 budget. The activity-based budget provides clarity on how much the country will contribute to achieving the objectives set in the various areas. The objectives are mostly due to the development plans discussed in the Riigikogu and describe the activities and services that aim to achieve the objectives. The transition to an ABB in 2020 means that Estonia is one of the first countries to try to build a state budget with an overview of the state's costs per service provided. The addition of performance areas and programmes to the state budget changes the structure of the State Budget Act. The current share of the Government of the Republic in the annual budget has now been distributed among the ministries. An activity-based budget will focus on areas and programmes. The possibilities for cooperation between ministries in the use of the budget will be increased, giving the government the right to decide on the allocation of state budget resources between government areas. To this end, the annual state budget law approved by the Riigikogu excludes the distribution of funds to ministries, which is replaced by a division between fields and programmes. Good Riigikogu! I know that many of you are interested in the change to the structural balance rule in the draft budget. The amendment is necessary to maximise the budget's support for growth. We want to prevent the government from over-cooling the economy with its actions or, on the contrary, from heating up the boom. The structural balance of the public budget will be followed as a longer-term average in the future. In the future, the surplus of previous years may be used to make investments in an amount equal to up to 0.5% of GDP. In recent years, the government budget has been in surplus. With the build-up of structural surpluses, we have stimulated economic growth less than would have been economically sensible. In other words, we have been doing national budgets for several years, one of the monetary and economic policy objectives of which has been to stimulate the economy, but at the end of the financial year it has always become clear that revenue has been received better than planned or that expenditure has not been incurred. This has left some of the money planned undirected to the economy. Thus, we have rather cooled the economy with budgetary policy, and the current law has not allowed us to correct this mistake next year. With this bill, we will correct this mistake. The revision of the balancing rule allows investment to be made on account of the surplus of the previous year. This will allow us to make strategic investments for up to 117 million euros in 2018. These investments will increase Estonia's economic growth and improve its defence capabilities. With these changes, we will continue to pursue a balanced fiscal policy. If there was no surplus in previous years, a balanced budget must be drawn up. Thus, the average for the budgetary period is still in structural equilibrium. In the case of surpluses, forward-looking investments are allowed, but at the same time, if a deficit occurs, it will have to be covered by a surplus in the coming years. The new balance rule is in line with the European budget rules. The government's aim is always to maintain sufficient reserves for crises. The changes in the balancing rule concern the national budget for 2018 and subsequent years after entry into force. The rule as a whole excludes major differences in structural balance. If, however, they arise, I mean both over- and deficit, the changes will always guide fiscal policy towards achieving a balance. Good Riigikogu! Last but not least, I want to talk about the direction taken in the draft to reduce the internal bureaucracy of the government. The Estonian public sector must be effective. If work does not create significant added value, it must be abandoned. With the draft, we will combine the draft state budget for the following year with the preparation of the national budget strategy, i.e. the four-year plan for public finances. The main difficulty in drawing up the draft state budget in the government will remain in spring. The rules governing the procedure of the state budget in the Riigikogu do not change. In addition, other amendments have been made to the draft with the aim of ensuring sound working arrangements and legal clarity. For example, the National Audit Office's proposals provide clarification in the wording of the regulation on the management of the state's cash flows. The State's cash flow management is organised in the country as a whole by the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance. Clarifications will also be made in the use of funds from national support programmes and in the rules for monitoring the implementation of loans granted by the State and the state budget. In summing up, the changes to the State Budget Act are aimed at the future. If you adopt the draft as a law, the next Riigikogu, together with the draft State Budget Act 2020, will receive the plan for the next four years of public finances. The budget shall also identify the expenditure planned up to the cost of the operations. The budget balance rule will be updated so that the structural balance of the state budget will be followed as a longer-term average in the future. The surplus of previous years can be used for investments. In order to ensure a balanced fiscal policy in structural terms, the rule remains that if a deficit occurs, it must be compensated by a surplus. Estonia's fiscal and monetary policy will continue to be conservative and public finances in good order. Honourable Riigikogu, I ask you to support the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U911	There are many questions for the rapporteur. First Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U912	Good waitress! We certainly do not support this bill, even though you asked so nicely. Actually, it's sad to hear all this talk. I want to ask what's happened to you guys at the IRL. Just a few years ago, you insisted on writing the balance rule into the Constitution. We know what Mart Laar thinks of this to this day. You've been like a right-wing party, but now it's going to be a mundane party, we're gonna draw reserves, we're gonna take a loan, we're gonna spend, we're gonna have a party, you're gonna talk about it with such a serious face. What happened to your view of the weather?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U913	Thank you. I do not know what 'chistak' means, but I do not think that was the most important part of this question. But let's talk a little bit. Let's talk about whether we are actually satisfied with the economic growth that has been in Estonia in recent years. Is this growth, which has been 1 to 2%, the kind of growth we have expected and which should bring us closer to the Nordic countries in the near future? Does that satisfy us? I don't think I'm satisfied. I think we need to further stimulate economic growth in Estonia in order for the train to start moving faster, and we must not do so at the expense of the next generations.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U914	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U915	Thank you. I'm saying "chistak" means that all reserves are transferred to zero, and maybe a little bit of a loan will be taken from a friend. This is what my colleague, Arto Aas, meant. But true, the IRL has repeatedly proposed that the budget balance be even written into the Constitution. In the same way, you have said the last time you did this in the middle of last year, that the state does not need additional stimulation in the form of loan credits, because we have the euro money that will open up in the new period, and that will give the economy sufficient impetus. My question is as follows. Name some of the tax policy principles that the IRL has left in this government, which you have defended for ten years, and which also applies now that you are in this government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U916	Thank you. I think that, if you look at the whole picture, the changes that are on the table today, the changes that we have talked about in the last ten hours, the changes that bear the knowledge that reducing labour taxes is one of the greatest priorities, are those changes that you can be proud of. We should go deeper than reserves and structural balances or surpluses. What do I mean? We are talking about reserves and comparing them with existing obligations. Believe me, the reserves disappeared a long time ago, in Jürgen Ligi's time. Jürgen knows that. Compared to our responsibilities, it turns out we haven't had any reserves in a long time. Yeah, we have reserves, of course. If we want to be a reserve trust, we can always take an extra loan and channel it into reserves. The question now is not whether or not the current economic growth will satisfy us. Whether we want to consciously cool the economy by making a budget in structural surpluses, or not, I think that is actually this issue. If we say to ourselves that we are not satisfied with this situation, with the economic stagnation that has been going on for years, then we must therefore make changes in order to get out of economic stagnation. I think that's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U917	Thank you. Indeed, I can confirm that the word 'chistak' is widely used in many parts of Estonia, such as Prangli, and that it means 'to the end', 'not', but it is also used in the sense of 'kill'. Andres Herkel next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U918	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, This last remark sounded morbid, but this bill is quite disastrous for Estonia's fiscal policy as well as Estonia's democracy. You referred here hypocritically to the Kristjan Kõljala report on Parliament's role in shaping budgetary policy. This draft certainly reduces Parliament's role, rather than increases it. This is not a draft in the spirit of this report. I'm going to ask you specifically. According to the draft, the conditions and procedures for establishing the budget strategy and the state budget are established by the Government of the Republic. Why couldn't this time be included in this bill itself? Then the Riigikogu would also play a greater role.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U919	Thank you. I don't agree with your assessment, and I'm gonna say it. I think that the Riigikogu will be given a much bigger and more important role by amending the State Budget Act. A better overview of the calculation of public funds will be provided in the future, not for one year, but for a longer period. So far, a four-year country's budget strategy has been essentially government-owned and its decision-making powers. The Minister of Finance has visited the Finance Committee, given an overview of the state's budgetary strategy, and that has actually been limited to the level of the Riigikogu, no further overview has been given. With these changes, we want to achieve a situation where the Riigikogu will receive an overview of '1 + 3' in the future when approving the one-year state budget. To interpret it as if it would reduce Parliament's role seems to me to be incomprehensible. Once again, I think that, by amending this draft, we will follow exactly the earlier objective set by the Riigikogu in the debate on a very important national issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U920	Urve Tiidus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U921	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. More and more recently, the opinion has been expressed that laws must be written in simple and good Estonian and understandable to non-lawyers. I'm sure you've heard that too. This draft adds the word 'enhancing action plan' to the legal language, which is well defined as a critical assessment of expenditure, the release of resources and the discovery of new sources of growth. The draft also gives rise to a committee for improvement. It would be interesting to know where you will first point this potential efficiency committee's target. Perhaps you will turn these tax increases plans, which have been greatly criticised today, back instead, calm down the tax storm that we may be facing, and also reduce the energy that is being absorbed by redistribution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U922	Thank you. I thank you for taking the trouble to pay attention to the efficiency plans and you want to debate this issue. The development of efficiency plans is a relatively new activity in many countries. Estonia has already made its first improvement plan. We have made this a pilot project and reviewed the use of state-owned vehicles. We have seen how many of them there are, how they are divided and how they are used, and we have drawn our conclusion from this. The conclusion is that there is a reason to buy cars, which are very much used, if they are not used too much, there is a reason to buy them with a deferred payment. We are honest, if the number of kilometres is very low, it makes more sense to give a person a taxi card and tell him to take a taxi instead of spending taxpayers' money on buying cars. Why am I talking about this? This is an example of an improvement plan. We expect that by means of this programme of improvements made as a pilot project, we will save the taxpayer EUR 16 million over the next ten years. So once again, I think that, in the near future, we will see more, and more, the emergence of efficiency plans, which should produce a positive effect in the form of better use of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U923	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U924	Mr. Secretary of Finance! It is terribly cynical to blame your predecessor for what happened to reserves during the crisis. You yourself have given inflammatory speeches as a member of the Riigikogu from this remote control, I have these quotations at hand, how we lay down clear budgetary rules that will not allow the next governments to survive, etc. This was in 2012 and 2013. It's incredibly impudent how your views change in a few years. When did you first feel like you were the boiler hunter who was turning the tap into a warmer economy and who had an infinite amount of fuel and the more you turn, the faster the economy is growing and the better life is? When did you first start thinking like that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U925	Thank you. I ask you in return, I think there is also an answer here for you, whether the current potential of the Estonian state is available or not? Is our GDP at the level that satisfies us and what we expect or not? Has our GDP gap, or reality, and potential, been achieved or not? Is our GDP gap negative or positive? Macroeconomic experts say that our GDP gap is negative, which in turn says that we need to stimulate the economy in order to achieve our potential. I say to you once again: if you think that the economy should not be stimulated, if you think that there has been an increase of 1 to 2% in recent years, that 2% has not been, that we are talking about 1% is good, then I simply do not agree with you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U926	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U927	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, That's the amazing shit you're talking about on the remote right now. You are saying that the economic environment is important, but you are coming through Parliament in the middle of the night to push a change that will draw on all the responsible budgetary policies that we have so far and, in fact, will open the way for a massive downsizing of the state budget during economic growth. Unfortunately, you have become an irresponsible advocate and champion of budgetary policy. I, too, recall 2012 when you said, 'The balance of the state budget is very important, and little has been said about it. It is very easy to raise the budget by increasing the deficit and putting it into expenditure (this is the worst option). ' This is a quote from your speech. On which occasion were you wrong in 2012, calling the budgetary balance very important, or today, pushing the exact opposite change through in this House in the middle of the night?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U928	Thank you, good questioner! For those who are in the hall and for those who follow us online, we will specify a few things. Let's knock down those scary balls that you're constantly raising down and go through this whole "step-by-step" thing. We've had to kill these scareballs six months in a row. I remember when you said in November that, oh-oh, there's going to be corporate income tax right now, there's going to be a progressive income tax of 26% or 33%. Journalists kept asking me how I would comment. I told you these scareballs are hard to comment on. Let's kill these scary balls! The structural balance as an average is maintained. The structural balance as an average remains, I say it again. It is not a budget deficit of 0.5%. By the way, in many European countries this is possible, even with 1% it is possible to go down, the budget rules allow this, but in Estonia it is not. No, it's not! Structurally, the budget must be balanced on average over the years. If there has been a surplus in previous periods, it can be introduced in subsequent years. If there has been a deficit in previous periods, then a surplus budget will have to be made in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U929	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U930	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! When employment is almost on the ceiling and there is not enough work to do, heating the oven still doesn't feel right. But I'm worried about the next thing. After all, you are describing today such a process that you will spend and the next one will have to cut. You're always talking about some kind of balance coming in 2020, 2021 or 2022. But you're not responsible. You do not know what mandate the people will give, but you will put the next governments in a position where they will actually have to patch up your work. That is why this whole company is extremely critical here today, because this balance should not be so flexible and flexible that one coalition can take advantage of the reserve and the other must re-create the reserve. It's turned into a trend in certain societies, I think. Do you really support such a fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U931	Thank you. Let's kill that ball, too. If we look at the four-year country budget strategy (2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021), we will see that 2021 is in structural balance. You do not have to worry that it will not be in 2021, it is in structural balance, it is already foreseen in the country's budgetary strategy. You don't have to worry about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U932	Well, the Hatter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U933	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! The National Audit Office has set out its position: 'The State Audit Office considers that it would be reasonable to deal with the amendment to the budgetary position rule separately from the other amendments that have been introduced in the draft, as these changes do not need to be introduced during the 2018 budget procedure. This would allow for an in-depth examination of the amendments, in accordance with good legislative practice, and wide-ranging consultations to this end. ' Please comment on this! The possibility of Parliament's involvement is non-existent because it does not even bring budgetary discussions to Riigikogu committees. Ministers will come afterwards to raise what we have been given and what we have not, and what are possible priorities. If we cannot discuss it differently, i.e. the Riigikogu will not discuss it, but only the government will discuss it, then we cannot talk about right and open legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U934	Thank you. I'll try to answer if I understand you correctly. First of all, if it seems to you that ministers do not go to committees to explain enough, then invite the Commission to do so. As regards legislation, the changes that are on the table today in the context of the state budget are changing the basic law of the state budget in several respects. I think that the changes relating to the transition from a cash-based budget to an accrual-based and future activity-based budget are the right steps. I think that the changes that we will see in the future include further changes in the management of the resources of the social partners in the Treasury (State control has pointed out that this could be further improved) are necessary. These are all the necessary amendments that are included in the Act amending the Basic Law on the State Budget. I always wonder, on such issues, whether we should proceed in parallel with five laws amending the basic law on the state budget. I don't think we have one concentration here of all the changes to this bill. Similarly, if we do the basic law of the state budget, there will be different changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U935	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U936	Thank you. Good Minister of Finance! Indeed, there have been no very meaningful answers. You've started killing balls. I don't know which and where the balls come from, but okay. If I look at the words of your long-time leader, Mart Laar, let us not quote you, we quote Mart Laari, he said already in 2010: 'At the moment we have agreed with the Coalition Reform Party that we will move the budget balance points into the basic budget law, but we will certainly continue to debate the inclusion of them in the Constitution. " In his opinion, this is a sensible step if we want to give Estonia a more secure guarantee for the future. What is your message of a more secure guarantee now that you have given up your values and are festively sailing northwards? Can you explain now all of a sudden what the IRL values are for maintaining budgetary balance and where do you think they are on their way? From the wind to the sails and singing to the heart on your way northward!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U937	I can still explain, and I want to explain to you. I don't know if by the bottom you mean the Nordics, which you've been trying to get us to move towards. I don't think we'd be moving towards the Nordic countries with a 1% growth, believe me. It's like that 500-euro tax-free minimum we're going to do. At the rate that used to be, it would have taken 30 years to achieve this. With 1% growth, we would not move towards the Nordic countries, but move away from them. Believe me! We'd be furthest away. Therefore, we must do everything we can to achieve a better level of economic growth than we expected in the past. Let us see what fiscal policy is really like in its nature. Once again, I stress that the objective of balance as a multi-annual average is crucial. If there has been a deficit in previous periods, then a surplus budget will have to be made in subsequent periods. It's already in the base law. However, the basic law does not state that, if there is a surplus in previous periods, we can adopt it if necessary if we feel and know that the potential of the economy has not been achieved. It's not in the basic law right now. I think this is the balancing mechanism that we should definitely put into law. I ask you back: why do we want to cool the economy? Why should we make a surplus in a structural position in a situation where economic potential has not been achieved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U938	Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U939	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, I understand you didn't have a chance to watch "Actual Camera." In the front page of the "Actual Camera," employers' associations strongly demanded your resignation. There were claims that an anti-business government as yet has not been seen before. The Board has said that the budget deficit planned by the government will be larger than planned. Eesti Pank has said that the government's planned budget deficit is more damaging than good, and this deficit is in the interests of the current government. Both the Fiscal Council and Eesti Pank have said, as one word, that the economy does not need encouragement at the moment. Who, apart from the coalition partners, are your allies on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U940	Thank you. I think that's a good question. I reject the introductory part of the question so that the whole government should, or I should, resign. If ministers should resign because they are implementing the coalition agreement, I think it would be difficult for ministers to do so at all, if that were to be the incentive for resignation. But that's it. I am rather talking about the substantive side, the assessment of the economic cycle. After all, that was the substance of your question, if we disregard the introduction. Firstly, as I said before, will we be satisfied with the growth we have today? Secondly, what is the state of the economic cycle? I'm not the macroeconomic expert who sets up the forecasts. I think that politicians have never been before and should not be forecasters; they are experts. Although experts from the Ministry of Finance have said that we have not actually achieved our economic potential, we should stimulate economic growth in order to achieve our potential. I also say that international organisations have also stated that we still have a long way to go to our potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U941	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U942	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! Eesti Pank, the Board of Budgets, the National Audit Office, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, many entrepreneurs have all been very critical of this bill and said, very politely enough, that the government is experimenting with the Estonian state by means of this budget law. Please tell me where this right, the will and the courage to go on such an experiment by bringing here a bill that also violates the budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U943	Thank you. You know, I'm listening and sometimes I think we're talking about different things. We are talking to the pathos from which the right and the courage to speak about the need to stimulate the economy are taken. I think that this right and courage actually exists right here in this Chamber. I think that a situation in which we have deliberately produced our structural positions in the so-called surplus and at the same time said that our economy is not growing is not right. I think if we haven't achieved our potential, we have to stimulate. It would be bad if possible surpluses were to be used for running costs, such as the salaries of teachers. That would be bad. No, they don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U944	Kristen Michal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U945	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister of Finance! I am concerned about the time when values such as budgetary balance and responsibility somehow linked the right front. I think we're all actually uncomfortable barbecuing you in this hall. You're also a little uncomfortable talking about this remote technopath, I think. How many IRL principles of budgetary balance or prudence do you think we will be able to count together as political enthusiasts later? And how logically does it sound to the rest of the people to think that with new taxes we are reviving the economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U946	Thank you. With these discussions, we come to why six months ago the government changed. I think you have rightly raised the question of both the values of the IRL and the values of Estonia at all. Why did the government change six months ago? I think one of the reasons was the need to bring the economy out of stagnation. I think that was one of the reasons. If we look at what will be done in the near future, what changes will be made in order for labour taxes to fall, I think you will agree with me that the economy will grow faster in the coming years than we may have expected six months ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U947	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U948	Thank you. Mr. Minister! It is awful for me to imagine you presenting forecasts that have not actually had your fingers attached to them, but you are very proud to explain what the forecasters should tell you themselves, or if I can imagine you doing economic reviews, if you take the floor again as a minister, not just by making an introduction, but by telling it all the way to the end, whether in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, in the government or wherever. You have nothing to do with the problems and benefits of the Estonian economy and the impact on the economic cycle. You just come and tell me how you're the boiler hunter, you turn on the oil, you set the growth, and you're either satisfied or not satisfied. If you're enjoying yourself, you're just turning the tap one way or not turning it at all. If there's insatiability, you'll turn on it. Tell me, why aren't you in the Centre Party? What makes you different from the Centre Party, and how do you resemble the Minister of Finance of any country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U949	Thank you. I think we're going to deviate a little from the changes in the basic law of the budget. But as we have been the norm this whole evening, we will open the debate and then try to come back to our daily activities. You know, I've always had the pleasure of debating with you. I haven't shared all your opinions, but I've had the pleasure of debating with you. Many entrepreneurs have stated that they have never made it to the office of the Minister of Finance before. Maybe it's a nuance here to mention. I'll watch you fight for the good of the entrepreneurs. I've never seen it before in these years, but at least we've come to that now. As far as the structural balance is concerned, I looked at the time series's structural positions and how they have worked. To be honest, to my own surprise, I discovered that the structural fiscal position of the government was at its greatest disadvantage at the time when your good colleague Aivar Sõerd was Minister of Finance. 2005 was a structural position..1.8.2006 was a structural position.2.9.2007 was a structural position.4.0. I would add that, if you look at the economic growth at the time, there is nothing to say, that growth was 6%, 7% or 8% at the time. But the stove was heated so as to hold and ban it. If you say today, in the case of 11⁄2%, that there is a fire in the oven, I think you are simply not fair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U950	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U951	Thank you. Honourable Minister of Finance! Let's ask for the simplest things. What link do you see between these two things that you have been whistling all the principles of your political party's current monetary policy and budgetary policy for the last few months, pushing through the introduction of new taxes and budget cuts, and the support of the former right party's IRL has fallen below the electoral threshold?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U952	Thank you. I thought the question was over. I'm trying to comment. How much was involved in the basic law now, of course, but, as I said, I will try to make a contribution to those issues that are not at all related to the basic law. You have introduced the concept of 'new taxes'. I think that this direction in tax policy, instead of serving for consumption taxation, is correct. I think you also share this view, because it is not a new direction, it is not a six-month course, but it has been a course for years to reduce taxes on earning and labour costs and pass on taxation to consumption. I think you're in this direction too. So such a change in the tax structure in its nature is justified. If we are also talking about the budget, you did not ask for it, but we are still talking about changes to the basic law, then I will come back to whether, in a time of 1% growth, there is an incentive for economic growth to accelerate, furnace heating. Is that it? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U953	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, procedural question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U954	There is nothing to do, there must be a repeat of the procedural question that I have already asked today. It really seems to me that there is something wrong with the sound system of the Riigikogu. It cannot be that the question is being answered completely. [[Laughter.]] This can only be justified by the fact that the question simply does not reach the answer. I asked you to check it out once today. Has there ever been an opportunity to check the functioning of the Riigikogu sound system? I don't know if there's any way that waitress Siser can hear the questions in the form they're being asked, so that he can get some real answers to the questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U955	Thank you. Dear waitress, will the questions get to you? Can you hear them?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U956	Yeah, they are. I will certainly draw my conclusions from this. If the issue goes beyond basic law, I will not speak from now on, just in case, because maybe you won't hear my answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U957	For my part, I can assure you that everyone here is nice to hear. So if the question and the answer do not really meet, then it is probably different from the sound equipment of the Riigikogu. But we can, of course, check it and double-check it if necessary to be absolutely sure that the sound system really works properly and according to the best standards. Now please, Urmas Kruuse!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U958	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Finance! There were more or less some golden words in your report, and they sounded like this: when the reserves are out, you can't spend. That is the message to the following governments: if you spend your reserves, others will have to make a cut. But you talk all the time about the fact that economic growth is not satisfactory. You have never mentioned the structural problems of our economic growth, which sector they are in, and whether the government can stimulate economic growth by investing in a city hall. As economic people, we understand that if we put the largest conference centre on a minimum offer in Estonia, we would be able to complete it four or five times cheaper than the amount that the government intends to spend on it. Why are you still doing this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U959	Thank you. You know, I think it's time to explain this one more time. Do not use the expression that reserves are completely spent! Use the term 'introduction of structural surpluses'. Those are two different things. Ask Jürgen Ligi, he'll teach you. If we are talking about spending reserves, then (I do not have this Excel table in front of me right now, but I can send it to you for that reason) I believe that I am not lying when I say that in 2014, the moment came when our debt to third parties was greater than our reserves, in essence we no longer had reserves. When we're talking about structural surpluses, that's another thing. There's just a difference between terms. We have reserves now, but we also have obligations to third parties. As regards the second part of the question, the urban hall and possible other strategic investments, whether they are reasonable and whether they should be done, whether they provide short-term or long-term socio-economic effects and whether they provide additional results for economic development, we are of the opinion that they do. For a concrete example, this investment should bring a certain number of people into our conference and tourism sectors. Unfortunately, I do not have these papers with me, and a more precise answer can be given in the future. However, I am confident that if we channel budgetary resources towards possible investments that ultimately give us a socio-economic effect, both in the short term and in the long term, it will contribute to our economic growth. I'm absolutely sure of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U960	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U961	Thank you. We can continue to argue here that what is contributing to economic growth and that is not helping. It's certainly going to help inflation by throwing gas into the fire. As I told you in the debate on the previous draft, inflation of 3.6% is still a pretty good achievement. I'm sure you'll help with that. As far as reserves are concerned, during Aivar Sõerd, the budget was nominally dominated by 3%, and then a large part of the reserves were created. In fact, you do not need to answer any further questions. You could say yes, honourable Riigikogu, we are doing this because we need money, we are doing this to cover our expenses, we are taking money from the surpluses of previous governments, which were created because of austerity, and we are adding a minus in the form of a deficit, pretty hard, a half-percent increase. But let future governments see for themselves how they manage. Just say it, and then there'll be peace in the house. Everyone's happy that you're actually doing this to cover your excess expenses.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U962	Thank you. I listened to you and thought at the same time. I thought you had an interesting approach. Perhaps the best thing about this approach is that I feel that you are actually satisfied with the current economic growth. I'm telling you, I believe you're on the wrong track. I don't think we should be happy. I'll make a comparison with a big train that needs a good acceleration to start driving. I say again, don't be shy to think out of the box. Think of the years, of course, I think that this time, unfortunately, will not come back, which I mentioned before, for the years 2005, 2006, 2007 and the structural budget balance was negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U963	Remo Holsmer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U964	Thank you. I asked, on my first question, what fiscal policy principles the IRL has left in this government, but I did not get the answer. So I ask the other way around: what distinguishes the IRL from the Socialists and the Centre Party, who have been talking for years about borrowing and relaxing the budget rules? What is the difference between your tax policy and the tax policy of the Warts and the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U965	Thank you. I was just discussing the subject with Mrs. Keit Pentus-Rosimine. We went away from the basic law of the state budget, and then I was told whether the remote control was not working or what was going on. He asked about things outside the basic law, and I also talked about them, but I don't know if he didn't like it or what, in any case, he said he was sorry, but the answer says something different. I suggest we stick to the basic law. We are talking about basic law, about what changes this law regulates in a particular case, what effect will in future be on the Riigikogu to see a four-year picture, how the multi-annual structural balance will contribute to economic growth, etc. So let's talk about these things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U966	Thomas Stone Mountain.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U967	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I hope that this time the question and the answer will meet. In fact, Governor of Eesti Pank Ardo Hansson said very clearly and unambiguously in this very hall that the Estonian economy does not need additional incentives today. Raul Eamets, Chairman of the Fiscal Board, has said that, despite the economic forecast, the proposed fiscal policy is contrary to the law. Who are the experts whose opinion you value more than the opinion of the Governor of Eesti Pank or the Chairman of the Fiscal Council? Are you planning to replace the Governor of Eesti Pank because his opinion does not coincide with government policy? Finally, which way is this train headed? Maybe it's heading towards the abyss, so it would be pretty dangerous to put a hangover down there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U968	Thank you. I am not some substitute for the Governor of Eesti Pank. I don't know if your party's ever acted like this before. I know that one of your people has been nominated as Governor of Eesti Pank. But the Estonian Minister of Finance is no substitute for anyone. You've got it all wrong, but that's why. Let's look at the contents. You have outlined the estimates of Eesti Pank and the Board of Budgets for the economic cycle. You asked who these experts were. I think these are the people whose estimates are that the budget will actually be set up. The state budget is not set according to IMF, OECD or Eesti Pank forecasts. Public finances and the state budget are set according to the forecast of the experts of the Ministry of Finance. I'm sure it's very important. But I would even continue to expand the subject of the answer. I think it is certainly important to also look at the assessments of the Estonian economic cycle. So what is the difference between the experts of Eesti Pank and the experts of the Ministry of Finance? In fact, not only do I mean the experts of the Ministry of Finance, but I have already stated that the OECD has also considered that our output gap is currently negative. So there are quite a few indicators that come into play. Indeed, the Fiscal Council has also talked about a number of labour market indicators, rapid wage growth and low unemployment. It is certainly worth noting that the labour market has undergone some significant changes since 2000. In this sense, structural positions also need to be monitored, as has the share of labour market participants, looking at economic development and the rise in retirement age. The new Employment Contracts Act has also made this matter more flexible. There's a lot of nuances. But once again, it's definitely a slippery path. Politicians don't make economic forecasts, believe me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U969	Liina Kersna.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U970	Thank you very much. I'll go ahead with the previous speaker's question. In essence, I understand that you are currently mistrusting both the Board of Budgets and the experts of Eesti Pank and raising your subordinates, the officials of the Ministry of Finance, as a shield. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U971	No, I wouldn't look at it that way. It is not a question of mistrust. This has been said before. It is a question of certain components based on the principle of cyclicality, especially structural balance, since the calculation of the structural balance takes into account the cyclical component. Instead, we could ask whether we do not trust the OECD's economic forecasts, which coincide with the economic forecasts of the Ministry of Finance. No, I certainly trust the forecasts made at the Ministry of Finance, I have no reason to mistrust them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U972	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U973	Thank you. I must admit, your slickness is truly admirable, incredible. You argued that the Riigikogu will have a greater role in dealing with the budget strategy. According to the National Audit Office, the situation is exactly the opposite. Eesti Pank, Chancellor of Justice, Chancellery of the Riigikogu, but the National Audit Office in particular has given a literally destructive assessment of the draft law amending the State Budget Act. Do you really want to go down in history as the most irresponsible and incompetent government minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U974	Thank you. I think that, to say bad about the basic law of the state budget, which in the future gives an overview of four years' activities in public finances, actually giving the Riigikogu much more information than before, and to say that it does not give Parliament any additional capacity to get an overview of public finances, I do not agree with that. If you say that the transition to the origin and future orientation (which we are dealing with here) is bad, then I do not agree with you. I think these are very reasonable things. I do not think we should criticise them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U975	Maris Lauri.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U976	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I understand very well that the Minister does not need to be a top specialist in his field. It is entirely natural, it is not always possible, but in this case the minister listens to specialists, experts. I will tell you a secret: experts and specialists also discuss complex matters and topics, because sometimes opinions differ. If I listen to what you are saying today, the opinion that although the government has some very competent advisers and, as far as I know, there are very competent people in the ministry, you do not listen to them at all. You listen to your coalition mates who talk, say, some ten-year-old legends. I'm just suggesting you think a little bit, because the talk you're talking about is totally inappropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U977	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U978	Mart Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U979	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I recall an inquiry by our group about a year and a half ago about bringing ships under the flag of Estonia. Then you ridiculed our question and made it clear to us that it would be costly and pointless. When you are in the new government, you have defended it by bringing the ships under the Estonian flag, on the contrary, ardently. This, frankly, calls into question your ability to make an objective assessment. Here's the question. When you talk a lot about investments, you also mention the cost of renovating the city hall as an investment. How many decades or hundreds of years will it take to make up for the 80 million euros spent on the city hall?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U980	Thank you. I think this amount is more than 80 million, as I understand it, looking at the entire estimate. The share of the country in the coming years should be in the order of 40 million over two years, 20 million per year. I'll tell you from memory, I think 18,000 conference tourists should come to that new conference tourism center in the future. We're gonna have to check it out, but I think it's 18,000 right. The organisers of the conferences and tourism entrepreneurs, I do not know whether they have sent you letters, have said that a proper conference tourism centre should be made in Estonia. If you ask whether a good and decent conference tourism centre will give Estonia something more, I think it will certainly add. This means not only the possibility of organising conferences, but also catering establishments, hotels, etc. will have more work to do. The creation of a conference tourism centre is certainly not a bad thing in its nature. It is important that this investment is done correctly, so that the money goes to this centre. Of course, there will also be management issues related to local government and state level. But if you ask me this way, if transferring money to a conference tourism centre will give the economy something back in the future, then I think it will.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U981	Kristen Michal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U982	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, good Minister of Finance, for your previous answer. You said that the previous government was replaced to break the stagnation in Estonia. It seems to me that this stagnation, which was in the relations of the previous government with business, when the government listened to entrepreneurs, is clearly broken. Businesses feel that all existing relationships or, let's say, the lines through which entrepreneurs and experts were able to provide advice to the government are closed. It echoes from every editorial, every show, every corner you look at. You're the Minister of Finance today. You are saying that economic growth needs to be accelerated, the train needs to be driven in. I think that the office of Minister of Finance and a member of the government also means responsibility for history. Wouldn't it be easier to say that we have partners, that we enjoy being in government, and that we want to spend?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U983	Thank you. You could say that if you did, but that's not the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U984	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U985	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, The structural balance of the budget shall be assessed by a theoretical calculation. As many as there are evaluators, so many results are obtained. The result also depends on what methods are used. I completely reject your assessment in 2005-2006. the structural balance of the 2012 budget. If we use a different methodology, we will get a completely different result. In addition, between 2006 and 2007, we put 3.4% of GDP in real reserve, which in today's currency represents about two defence budgets. But that's why we're coming to today. I have a very specific question for you. Next year, you will take EUR 137 million from reserves to balance the budget. The Prime Minister has confirmed that it is 137 million. A large part of the reserves is a reserve of the unemployment fund, which cannot be used to balance the budget, and then there are reserves of local governments and a reserve of stability. If we continue to spend reserves at this rate of 137 million a year, how many years does the central government have reserves?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U986	Thank you. I'm gonna start from a distance, because you, too, started from a distance with your own question. I think it was very reasonable that you once again introduced a structural balance calculation. You rightly said that there are different components and accounting methods. This is actually what I have been trying to tell your partymates today, Mr Sõerd, when the assessments of the experts of the Ministry of Finance are called into question, but also, for example, those of the OECD. I have been trying to explain calmly that there are really different components that can and often will be taken into account in the assessment of the structural balance. It is a good thing that you yourself brought this up, while defending the positions of 2005, 2006 and 2007, but it is also well transferred to the present time. I'm sure it's important. As far as the introduction of reserves is concerned, I have already talked about this and I will now go over it again. If we look today at the whole picture, at our overall position, at our responsibilities to third parties and at the money in our reserves, we see that we are in a situation where we do not have reserves, because our responsibilities are greater than reserves. If you are referring to the balance between liquidity, liquidity reserves and current reserves, it is really possible to take 130-140 million out of the funds currently in reserve. But once again, the question is who's in the faith. If we want to increase our reserves, there is no problem, we can take extra credit and so-called deposit it. Would that make sense? I don't think so. We're exactly in a zero balance. So, once again, 130-140 million is the amount that we can take if we want to bring the liquidity buffer to the bottom of the tier. After that, we have a chance, if we want, to take an extra loan. At the same time, these are financial instruments, we may not be able to use this 130-140 million and we may be able to use either loans or bonds as financial instruments. But this is already a separate decision, based also on what is most sensible for the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U987	Martin Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U988	Thank you, Mr. Vice Speaker. Good minister! Unfortunately, of course, you did not answer Mart Helme's question about how long the city hall's investment will earn back. Why don't you just turn it down? But actually, the story of why we need to let the budget down or spend it, and the reason that we're making awfully big investments, as far as I know, doesn't add up. In fact, the share of investment in the budget does not increase very much, but the current expenditure is increasing considerably. Can you give us the bill here? How much was the 2015-2016 period? Investment in the state budget in 2006 and how many are there this year and next year? How much has the increase been in percentage terms and how much has it been compared to the increase in the budget itself? Can I get a specific bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U989	Thank you. As the state budget procedure has just ended today, we are dealing with changes to the basic law, I am now quickly reminding you of these data. I don't have the data here, but the procedure was still there. In the nearest three years, the largest investments will be made through the ages, in 2018, 2019 and 2020 respectively. This has been taken together with local government investments, but the sector's largest investment is being made. The central government sector, of course, has the largest share there. This order of magnitude, I'm now suggesting, is just under 1.4 billion a year, I think it was 1.35 billion a year, and that's for the next three years. There are, of course, euro funds in there, there are budgetary stimulation, there are funds from local authorities. Everything together will amount to 1.35 billion next year. There will be a very strong stimulus for the economy for three years.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U990	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U991	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, We heard from your speech today that the change of government was due to the need to accelerate economic growth. At the same time, it is known that three weeks ago, the government sent out a working group on growth and has started to raise a number of taxes. All of this will then be done to boost economic growth. However, I have the hypothesis that the working group on growth was dissolved because it started pointing out the bottlenecks in the things that the current government has tried and is still trying to push through. Is it true that the task force was disbanded because they referred to your wrong decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U992	Thank you. I do not know what this has to do with the basic law of the state budget if you make any claims about someone else's claims and then ask me what I think of these claims. Honestly, I don't know what to think. I don't know what claims you're presenting to us here at 1:00 a.m., they have nothing to do with the basic law of the state budget. But you did start with economic stagnation and economic stimulation. True, the biggest goals of this coalition are economic growth, increased security, also an increase in population and, of course, prosperity. These are the biggest things. Let us see what changes are being made in the coming years or what has already been done. When we are talking about stimulating the economy, a good Laine may mention that we have canceled the increase in diesel excise duty. By the way, it created almost EUR 40 million for the budget when we talk about money, a so-called minus. A minus to the state budget, but to someone, i.e. entrepreneurs, plus. We canceled that rise. We are also talking about tax measures for businesses: the increase in VAT on hotels, as you know what was to happen in the first place. a on January 1, was canceled. These things need to be marked so that it doesn't sound like they don't think about it. Yes, they do. I think that action in the short term will really contribute to simplifying the business environment and reducing red tape. I will give you a business account, for example. There are a number of measures that contribute to entrepreneurship and economic growth here in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U993	Thomas Stone Mountain, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U994	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. I'm forced to repeat my question. Namely, Ardo Hansson, I repeat, in this hall it was claimed that the Estonian economy does not need incentives. But you started talking about the economic forecast. I ask, was the statement of the Governor of Eesti Pank, Ando Hansson, misleading the members of the Riigikogu when he said that there was no need for additional stimulus? You say, on the contrary, that it is absolutely necessary. Have you asked the companies what, in the last few years, has been the reason for this modest economic growth (1 to 2%), whether government failure or inappropriate economic economy, above all, the weakness of our export markets? Have you looked into this from the entrepreneurs? If you claim that all these tax changes are so bad, how do you justify that, especially among businesses, the so-called barometer for assessing the government has never been as low as it is now? Do you have any completely different ideas?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U995	Thank you. Let's get to it from a distance. You had a lot of questions in one minute, I'll try to answer them all if I can. I hope I don't forget anything. But if I forget, I won't do it maliciously. First of all, the assessment by the Governor of Eesti Pank that the economy should not be stimulated. I think that this response was already given at the moment of Aivar Sõerd, while defending the structural minus of 2005, 2006 and 2007, the big minus that was at the time of his ministerial status, said that the moon, the estimates are different, the estimates for the output gap are based on different components and cannot be taken on the basis of only one component or assessment. I think his explanation coincided exactly with the explanation I had previously given. That is the case, the President of Eesti Pank and the experts of the Ministry of Finance have different assessments of the state of the economy, which is where the difference comes from. Now it is a question of what kind of forecast should be taken into account. Here the law states very clearly that the state budget is not made in the light of the OECD, IMF or Eesti Pank economic forecast, but in the light of the Ministry of Finance's economic forecast. That's what we have to say. You also mentioned the economics of whether or not the conjunction contributes. Yes, of course, Estonia, with its open dynamic economy, depends very strongly on our neighbours and export partners and their import capacity. This is a complex approach: on the one hand, their ability to import, i.e. our export capacity, and on the other hand, fiscal policy decisions taken in Estonia in order to increase our competitiveness, and budgetary decisions to boost our economy. It's a complex view. If you ask whether the well-being of our neighbours and their economic growth will contribute to our well-being, of course, but it is also the opposite: their more difficult situation automatically creates a reduction in our export capacity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U996	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U997	Honorable speaker! Honorable Minister! As we know, a report by the Special Committee on the Control of the National Budget of the Riigikogu was prepared last year, with the complex title 'Possible Changes in the Paradigm of Fiscal Policy in the Estonian Parliamentary System'. Simply put, the idea was that the role of the Riigikogu in the budget process could and should increase. It expressed not only the opinion of one committee, but the opinion of the majority of the members of the Riigikogu. I expect you to be familiar with this report or its main conclusions. How now does this draft, which we are talking about, express the principles of this report? The National Audit Office was critical and thought it would not express in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U998	Thank you. I think that the possibility for the Riigikogu to keep a longer period in the future than one year is one of the first important features of increasing the role of the Riigikogu in the processing of the state budget. So far, I stress once again that once every year we have dealt with the state budget in the Riigikogu, it has been a matter of one year's state budget, we have not looked at a longer period. If there are tax policy decisions, such as some increase in excise duty from 1 January 2019, it is not in the picture for the Riigikogu. We're handling the state budget for one year, we don't have that kind of thing in the picture. Now, if we're talking about this longer view, I think it's very positive. The Riigikogu receives the view that the government has had. The government has had this view, the Riigikogu does not have it. This is one example. We're gonna come to changing this whole system, I think, by 2020. A pilot project on the transition to activity-based accounting has already been launched by the Ministry of Education and Research, and now the Ministry of Social Affairs is coming to pick him up. We will most likely be one of the first countries to do so in 2020, as I said earlier in my introductory speech. I think these are things that we should be proud of in the future. If there are places that can be improved in the process of dealing with the state budget itself, I have always said that I am open to it. I myself have been a Member for a long time, and I think it is very important that Parliament's role in the state budget procedure be increased and in a very long perspective so that there is a better information field for decision-making.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U999	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1000	Thank you. The Chancellery of the Riigikogu has stated that the State Budget Act will remain executive after the adoption of the amendments laid down in the draft, thus violating the principle of separation of powers under the Constitution and undermining the right of constitutional institutions to organise themselves. Your partner, the Centre Party, once announced that it would untie itself from the Estonian legal space. Has the entire left-wing government taken the same course now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1001	Thank you. No.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1002	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1003	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, My previous question did not meet with the answer, and that is why I will try to repeat it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1004	Of course!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1005	The government disbanded a working group on economic growth, while you said that the change of government is because the economy is starting to grow. A group of ministers was put in office who should then encourage this economic growth, but only one poor one of them has an economic education, that is Minister Urve Palo, everyone else is a dilemma on this issue. How will this economic growth speed up with such a dilettante ministerial expert group?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1006	Thank you. I'm sorry that this debate has changed now, at a quarter past two, to essentially label it. I know one of your party members is a constant labeler. You were talking about dilemmas. Honestly, it gets a little embarrassing, it's a little embarrassing. I call on you, don't label the people who are in the government. I'm not sure whether it's right to call these people a dilemma or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1007	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1008	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I'll start with an experiential statement. Apart from the members of the Riigikogu and the people working in the Ministry of Finance, the words of the average citizen 'State Budget Act' are completely confused, because they mean both what is called the basic law, even though it is not the title of this law and the annual state budget law. Perhaps it would be wise to rewrite these titles. Before World War II, the annual state budgets were also passed as a law in the Republic of Estonia, but there was no special state budget law or basic law. Perhaps there is a causal link between the lack of this law and the success of the overall state budget process. Maybe we could go back in time and break that general law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1009	Thank you. In this sense, you are right that the so-called basic law of the state budget in its nature is not a very long-standing product. We're talking about a situation a few years ago when the basic law started to live its life. I think it was reasonable that the basic law of the state budget, as such, was furnished with a vision of how it should operate and on what basis the state budget is actually drawn up. I agree with you, of course, that there may be a misconception. Changing the State Budget Act does not mean changing the state budget itself. This play of words in the context of the State Budget Act and the state budget itself can really be misleading. I think the basic law is reasonable in its nature. Rather, it needs to be improved, just as we are doing now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1010	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1011	Thank you. Good minister! Unlike many others in this hall, I don't think you or IRL are all bad. I think you're just having bad friends right now. I thought I'd enlighten you in some aspects and maybe ask you how you feel when you know all this. City Hall. A few years ago, the central party government announced that there was an American investor who, besides everything else, also had a loan guarantee from the American government for 2.8 billion Estonian kroons. At that time the restoration would have cost 700 million Estonian kroons, which is 45 million euros. A little later it turned out that there was no American guarantee, but it was said that if Estonia gave its guarantee, then America would. That shit went on, and now there's some kind of architectural competition going on. We always thought it weird where that change would have gone in a middle party town. Don't you have the fear that maybe there's some kind of vuffel in it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1012	Thank you. It is not a question of who is in power in one position or another. The question is that all matters must be fair, correct and understandable. This is certainly important, regardless of who is in power at the moment. I feel like we're moving away from basic law again. Understandably, the local elections are coming up. In the context of the future election of local governments, there are certainly many things that I do not like in the city of Tallinn, many things. But I am not saying them now, and I am not using this stand, because, really, we do not have a municipal election campaign here at the moment, although I understand that one Member tried to make this campaign. But let's save it for another time. I'll just come back to the city hall for a second. I think that every financial move, especially when it comes to taxpayers' money, must be properly planned: how this move takes place, what the country gets, what the position is. It must be correct, understandable and open. There's no other way, believe me. This must be the case, regardless of who is in power in Tallinn.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1013	Martin Helme, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1014	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Minister, thank you very much. I'll come back to the investments. Of course, the city hall is not an investment, because you repeatedly refused to answer us about it, but it never gets to the plus. But all right. Large investments were already planned during the previous government in the previous country's budget strategy. These amounts have not increased much during the new government. Rail Baltic and other infrastructure projects, such as the Tartu road, represent a very large part of these major investments. They are all linked to euro money. My argument is to push it over with figures, although I understand that the evening is late and you may not be prepared to present specific figures, but please reject it if you can, that this government does not invest significantly more than the plans already in place, but it is going to grow very large and very clearly in terms of budget and running costs, which means that this government will simply eat the money. This is not a conservative monetary policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1015	Thank you. I reject, reject, and I'm not just saying that I reject and then shut up, but no, I'm also decorating my disputable theories, if that's what I'm saying. I'll disprove it. When putting together the state budget and, essentially, the current state budget strategy, it was stated very clearly that all the running costs needed in day-to-day operations must be covered by revenue. That's exactly it. As a separate strategic investment that will be made in the coming years (it does not concern Rail Baltic, which really follows, as you rightly said, from previous decisions and has been built on a very large part of euro money, and partly comes from the state budget itself, which is included in forecasts for the coming years), it is envisaged to shift EUR 345 million to several positions in the order of magnitude. I am thinking of the same city hall that we talked about just a little while ago, but infrastructure investments, for example, are also made every year for EUR 45 million. This would not have been the case if it had not been specifically agreed that there was a need to stimulate the economy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1016	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1017	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I will go back to the beginning of this debate, to a question to which you replied that if we look at our responsibilities, it is clear that Estonia has no reserves. That was a rather intriguing answer, because once before, neither you nor the Government of the Republic have admitted that we actually have no reserves, given our responsibilities. Can you give a more precise overview of how the ratio between the reserves collected by the Government of the Republic and our commitments has developed in percentage or financial terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1018	Thank you. There's nothing intriguing here. After all, all the data is public, and everyone can use them. It is possible to see exactly how many commitments we have under the loan agreements and how many commitments we have had with the EFSF and the ESM. All the data is public, there's nothing intriguing here. I don't have this overview available, but I promise you I will send you a full overview of the volume of our current reserves and our responsibilities in the overall view. There's nothing intriguing or secret here, of course I'll send it, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1019	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1020	Mr. Secretary, I was a little confused by your last response. According to my memory, the so-called basic law existed at least in 1993, but perhaps also in 1994. After 1999, when there was a need for negative budgets, etc., a new text of the law came from the Ministry of Siim Kallas, Minister of Finance at the time, which was completely different from the previous one and became a law either in 2000 or 2001. So, in my opinion, what you put forward is the third full option. Maybe there's been some sort of intermediate option for 12 years. I actually wanted to ask whether the current changes would rather go back to the moment that this Siim Kallas law came into force or how.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1021	Thank you. If you were to answer the question, "Back, I'd say, "Move on." If you include this sentence with a message that, in what sense, I will say so, as I said before: there are now going to be a number of important changes to this basic law, which we may not have dealt with much today. I am thinking precisely of this change of focus. I think we should devote much more attention to this. I think it will be our success story at some point, when the money is no longer distributed on a ministerial basis, simply by passing through the account system, but by focusing on activities. We will then see how much taxpayers' money goes into what action. This is all to be determined in the future in the basic law. So rather, it is progress. Now I'm also taking this opportunity to say that I found certain materials in the meantime. I'll send them to the EKRE people separately after, as I promised. But of course, as I said, there are reserves. The liquidity reserve at 31 March was 705 million, the availability loans are 350 million, etc. Liquidity is on target, with a stabilisation reserve of over EUR 400 million. If we look at our reserve and liability positions, we'll know our net position. Here comes the question. When asked whether the Estonian state currently has no reserves, this is certainly not the case. We have reserves: the stabilisation reserve, of course, the liquidity reserve, etc. The question is what level of responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1022	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1023	Thank you. Good minister! To the public in the press, figuratively explaining what this deficit in the state budget means, you did it with the example of a refrigerator, that family and refrigerator and so on. I've forgotten the metaphor. Can you repeat it and explain it again? Has this been a subject yet? [[???Vahelehüüe: 'Viis korda on juba räägitud.'???]] Oh, five times. But explain it to me! I was out for a while.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1024	It's okay, you were out for a while, now you're in beautifully. Of course I will answer you personally. We haven't actually used the example of the fridge today, so let's talk about it. Here's the logic. You have collected money during the year and you want to buy yourself a refrigerator at the end of the year, no matter what it costs, 500, 1000 or 100 euros. Okay, maybe they say 100 euros doesn't get you a fridge, so we're talking about 500 euros in the fridge. You've collected money and you want to buy yourself a refrigerator. But it turns out it's not in the fridge. You're going to the store, but it's not. It's the end of the year and there's no fridge. The year ends, January 1st comes. You're going to the same store at the beginning of January, and there's a refrigerator. Now you are facing a problem: you have the money you collected last year and the refrigerator is in the store, but you can't buy it anymore. There's a fridge, there's money, but you can't buy it. This is an example of the possibility of introducing structural surpluses from previous periods in future periods in order to maintain a medium balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1025	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1026	I will continue with the answer given to Valdo. You said a very interesting sentence. You said it didn't matter who's in power. Look, it can be taken in different ways. I mean, you're in power in every combination, but we were in the coalition before, now we're in opposition. I wouldn't say it really doesn't matter. But okay. If you are right that it does not matter who is in power, please tell me why you replaced a government that was competent, worked well, successfully, prospectively and in the interests of the Estonian people, and replaced it with a government whose competence is highly questionable. Have you not heard, for example, the Prime Minister or the Minister of Economic Affairs? Makes you raise your eyebrows, don't you think, and ask yourself, "Lord, how did we get one of these?? " So does it matter who is in power, or does it not? What is this motive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1027	Thank you. I don't know if the night is too long, or if you've been too tight in your group room, but you're taking my answers somehow. [[???Igor Gräzini vahelehüüe: 'Protest! Protest!'???]] I wanted to say about Tallinn's city power that it does not matter who is in power, but the investments that are being made must be auditable, understandable and traceable. Let's look at country level. You said it was all good before, and now it's all bad. I think that's just your argument. I don't agree with you. I think I have a historical memory, however, that at one point there was a situation where decisions did not really come up. That was a problem. [[Igor Gräzini's appeal.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1028	Good Igor Gräzin! If you knew the law of the house and the rules of procedure, you'd know there's no word like 'prost'. You have a chance to ask me a procedural question. You have my word on that. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1029	Please, would you please explain what was meant by me going to the group room too often? What was alluded to? By the way, Peter Ernits and the boys are sitting there. I've been there for the last 45 minutes. I mean, what's that supposed to mean? I would like to be more specific!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1030	I can answer if I'm allowed. I mean, of course, if you were in this room all the time, you wouldn't have to ask the questions that have already been answered. If you could be around these different rounds of questions and answers at all times, you would be able to analyse adequately the course of the debate that has been in this Chamber in subsequent decisions. But unfortunately, I'm talking now, as I can see, with an empty chair, so this moment is already in the past for me. Unfortunately, I don't think my message reached Mr. Gräzin anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1031	Dear Riigikogu, we are discussing draft law 456, draft law amending the state budget law initiated by the Government of the Republic. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1032	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good minister! I suggest you skip witty jokes between the homes, because as you know as a long-term member of the Riigikogu, you know very well that your answers can also be heard in the hallway or in the rooms of the political groups. When it comes to going to the political groups' rooms, I too heard your witty response about an hour and a half ago that too many had been eating in the political groups' rooms. Such undersized jokes could sound somewhere else, not in the Riigikogu Hall, so let's forget about it. I'm coming back to the reserves. Your answer was dubious and evasive. I thank you for e-mailing me with more information. You've already done it once. Thank you for that. But please give a more precise comparison of the fundamental change in the share of reserves in the current government, where you have joined the Putin party, the Central Party, compared to the share of the previous government, where you were with the Reform Party. Are our reserves increasing or decreasing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1033	Thank you. I'm gonna put aside those metaphors about the parties, they're gonna be on your conscience. I think they do not contribute to the procedure of the basic law on the state budget. If you don't mind, I won't pay any attention to them. However, I would like to draw your attention to the substance of the matter and to the size of the reserves. I think that reserves, loans and bonds are all financial instruments that can achieve a purpose. I do not think there is any reason to take decisions until this is necessary. We should base our investments on the most sensible solution for the taxpayer. If it is most reasonable to introduce reserves, they must be introduced, if it is reasonable to introduce bonds, then it is reasonable to introduce bonds. These are all actually financial resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1034	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1035	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 5 May. The bill was introduced by Minister of Finance Sven Sester. You just spent two hours listening to what we listened to for 20 minutes. We figured it out, and then there was a debate. I will bring up the questions that sounded in the committee. Why is the cumulative balance accounted for retroactively? It was Aivar Sõerdi's question. The Minister replied that this was a political decision. Starting in 2014, the new State Budget Act, which introduced rules on the budgetary position, entered into force. The budget balance was followed earlier in the preparation of the budgets, but this principle was not laid down in law. In the past, the principle of balance was contained in coalition agreements. The next question (it was put by me): will the guidelines for calculating the structural balance expire? The answer was that the methodology did not change anything. According to the amendment, each spring, the structural balance of the previous year will be fixed and added to the earlier amount when the stability programme is drawn up. It is estimated at EUR million. Although the assessment of the structural balance changes over time, it will not be changed later. Then there was no reply to the author, but for some reason I think it was my colleague on the restrictive impact on budgetary flexibility of using the surplus. There was no answer or comment. There was a discussion of the disagreements between the fiscal council of Eesti Pank. There was already a debate about this in this Chamber, and I am not going to repeat it. There was also interest in the assessments of the National Audit Office. The answer was that the Ministry of Finance has communicated its answers to the National Audit Office and that an additional meeting is prepared if necessary. Mr Ammas asked that if for 20 years the budget balance was a sacred cow, why is it now being changed? The minister replied that this would create flexibility. The subject has been taboo for a long time, and current measures contribute to economic growth. The law entered into force only in 2014, and governments have not been able to change it. The next question (no author) is this law structured into a structural balance? Answer: The structural balance must be either way, it must also be nominal. There hasn't been a problem in practice. How much do you need to have? The answer was that the buffer must be 500 million. The committee decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 17 May, supported by 6 members of the committee, 3 against and no abstentions. With the same result, it was decided that the first reading should be completed. The deadline for tabling amendments was set at 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1036	Questions for the waitress. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1037	Honorable speaker! Respectable waitress! I still come back to this opinion of the National Audit Office. In the Commission, we really talked briefly about this. If I remember correctly, you were a little, I would say, repulsive or disproportionate that it is also very practical for the Committee on Monetary Affairs to listen to the representatives of the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance on this matter at once. How does that make sense to you right now? If I may ask, I also wonder why you didn't keep much of the opinion of the National Audit Office this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1038	Thank you. I have a certain experience. I have also said in this Chamber that I highly value the National Audit Office as an institution of the state, I would not say that I consider him to be a real professional NGO, but I believe he is one of the highest in the institutions. But in these five years, when I worked very closely with the National Audit Office, I saw on a few occasions that sometimes their opinion could be completely disputed. I do not mind if we have a debate in the Commission, absolutely not, it can be done. However, we must adopt this decision in the Commission in any case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1039	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1040	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Stalnukhin! I think that not only the Minister of Finance, but you, too, should be in a rather tragic state of personality division in the procedure for this draft. In 2016 you were the co-rapporteur and chairman of the Special Committee on State Budget Control when the report was discussed, the content of which was such that the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the budget and budget strategy must be significantly greater. The substance of the draft before us today and the manner in which it is being dealt with speak absolutely against it. This has also been confirmed by the National Audit Office; this is even confirmed by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu in its position. As a man of steel, I'm sure you'll understand. Why are you letting this happen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1041	Thank you for your question. I didn't understand what I was gonna let happen. One of the orientations developed by this bill is that we are going to discuss the state budget for next year in principle in the spring of last year. I mean, there's never been such a time to make the right decisions. As far as handling all these drafts is concerned, we have not broken any rules of procedure. We haven't gone out of the frames in any of our steps that we're in under the law of house and order. So I don't see any sin here, let alone a crime.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1042	March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1043	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Here a reference was made to Eesti Pank and asked when, how, how and for what purpose the Committee on Monetary Affairs met with the Governor of Eesti Pank and what was the result of that meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1044	Thank you. I'm sorry that my esteemed colleague Kivijägi is missing from the hall right now, but I hope he listens to the transmission. It must have been him who asked twice about the same opinion. Yes, the Committee on Monetary Affairs also met with the Governor of Eesti Pank when discussing the state's budget strategy. It's been said that there's a group of dilettantes running around somewhere who decide all kinds of important questions. We are also such a group of dilemmas, I do not know how many of the 11 members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs have financial or economic education. Personally, I'm not, and I don't think most are. But I have not even wanted to look at who has the background, because I think a member of the Commission has been a minister four or five times, in different ministries, and has managed everywhere. But if you listen to Laine Randjärv's logic, he was a pro in one ministry, and in all the rest he was a dilettante. Well, there's that kind of logic, isn't there? Yes, we met with Eesti Pank. I looked at old charts and it turned out that in 2006, 2007 and 2008 economic growth was 7%, 8%, 9%, or even 10%. This could be clarified, but in any case it was between 7% and 10%. I asked if anyone at the time said that the economy was overheating, oh, don't, oh, don't rush. I didn't get a factual answer, but it's clear that nobody yelled at the time that the wolf was coming. It is now going to be said that it is overheating to leave these measures, you are contributing too much to rapid growth. In fact, we want to achieve 2.8%. If, for example, the economy grew to 3.1%, I think it would be a normal positive process, but they say it's overheating. I mean, you didn't heat up at 10%, but now you're about to heat up at 3%! That's when we got to the bottom of it. There was this very interesting thing, and it sounded like it was a matter of faith. Eesti Pank can believe in one bank, some other bank, who also does the rounds and they all do the rounds, believes in the other, the Ministry of Economic Affairs believes in the third. And that's it. If you need an argument, it's a nice thing that you can find any argument to defend any position. One predicts one thing, the other one, everyone's experts, nobody's from our neighborhood, right? You know what the word 'expert' means. The question arises as to why such disputes arise, why are we sitting here, I don't know, for some seven or eight hours already, and the Minister of Finance is being tortured on a mandatory basis, who must repeat the same thing ten times. The answer is also clear: because there is coalition and opposition. I have a lot of good people in the opposition and people I like, but I understand there are two types of questions. Some are the ones to which there is a single answer, these are usually defence and foreign policy issues, there is usually one right position. But economic issues always have a number of sides. Always. If the opposition starts supporting the coalition on fundamental economic issues, it will no longer be seen, it will disappear. It is a law of politics that no opposition, if it wants to call itself an opposition, will ever support the state budget in the vote. There is a need to find a place for conflict on such fundamental issues and to find what to fight with. If Eesti Pank's opinion is suitable for starting a crusade, it will be used. If other arguments are appropriate, they shall be used. In fact, I'm not saying it any less derogatoryly. It's gotta be like this, it's a normal process. The only thing that saddens me is that the minister really talked about this too ♪ these taggings, that someone was a Putin party and so on. When such terminology is used, it is a clear sign that people are actually in the hands of the same ideology, they cannot think differently. They're independent, aren't they? They don't give anyone that chance. So, yes, we met with the Fiscal Council and Eesti Pank and listened to them. I have a lot of experience in making forecasts: in a year's time you will look and see that there has nothing to do with what really exists. There is a great deal of talk here about this structural balance. I just remembered I have a table here. Nominal position for 2007: actual 2.7 and estimated 1.5, structural position: actual 33.8 and budgeted +1. If it's at this level, then... I hope I answered your question. Yes, this specifically concerns this draft, which is why I considered it necessary to comment on it. I hope the Commission will forgive me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1045	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1046	Thank you, good Chairman. Good chairman of the committee! I would like to acknowledge the observation made by the Chancellery of the Riigikogu that this law is even more in violation of the principle of separation of powers under the Constitution and undermines the right of constitutional institutions to organise themselves. Pursuant to § 4 of the Constitution, the activities of the Riigikogu, the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic and the courts are organised in accordance with the principle of separation and balance of powers. The principle of equilibrium has not been respected in a situation where Parliament has to base its decision on the amounts given by the Government of the Republic in the draft submitted to the procedure. Why does the Committee on Monetary Affairs accept the marginalisation of the competence of its own work, i.e. that of the Riigikogu, as well as the possible conflict with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1047	Thank you. Very interesting observation, I would like to see it more closely. I usually study materials before I comment on them, even if I hear something from a reliable person. I'd like to read it myself, see what it says above and what it's going to do next. Yeah, it's normal, it's normal, not to judge what you're hearing for the first time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1048	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1049	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would also like to say that the Minister. Mr President, I am sorry that you have not read the annexes to the draft. But if you look at all the drafts that the Minister of Finance has brought before us, this is undoubtedly the worst and most disastrous consequences for Estonia's development. This raises the question of the principle of the balance of the state budget, but also the question of democracy. There are two big problems. First of all, this draft eliminates the view of the budgetary balance as an axiom of all governments that have so far been re-independenced. That Mr. Stalnukhin is doing this, I can understand that somehow. The views of the Centre Party are based on what Edgar Savisaar, former chairman of their party, has taken into account in his long-standing practice that money comes from somewhere and is not very counted, and its consequences are similar to those of the Centre Party House. But because it's the Minister of Finance of the IRL, it's ugly. It shouldn't be like this. Obviously, in some circumstances, concessions can be made. I don't know if this once thought of writing the principle of balance into the constitution was the smartest, but it was definitely the idea of the IRL. Now they're going the other way. It's weird and it's ugly. Obviously, it can be accepted that in the event of a decrease in the European Union's structural funds or in some extraordinari economic situation, a deficit may be allowed, but we are now in a situation where I think Governor Ardo Hansson of Eesti Pank is twice in less than a month, both in response to an inquiry and in giving an annual review of Eesti Pank, that the current macroeconomic situation is not such that there is a need to stimulate the economy, on the contrary, it is certainly not appropriate to bring the deficit to the state budget right now. That is what the Fiscal Council has said. Now we are going to the democratic aspect. This draft, too, contains elements that should not be included, which are not urgent. When we discussed the previous bill, we talked a lot about the cluster. I don't know what to call it now. I'm sure it's a state budget law. Let's say he's a fool, not a cluster, but a fool, precisely in relation to the provisions that have nothing to do with dealing with the rule of budgetary position, if we even expect it to happen urgently. The National Audit Office has here provided an example of development plans and action plans that do not often relate to the budgetary process. But there should be time to link them better to the budget, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. In my opinion, this is an example of how the role of the Riigikogu is also indirectly reduced, because the development plans are going through here to a significant extent. Yes, the permanent problem is that they do not match the budget enough. These changes before us certainly do not increase the role of the Riigikogu in dealing with the budgetary strategy. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1050	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1051	They do not comply with the principles set out in the 2016 report before us. This draft also brings the conditions and procedures for drawing up the budget to the level of the Government of the Republic regulation. I think they should be in the law. The draft does not make the budget any better readable. Finally, Mr Nestor, President of the Riigikogu, we are now talking about this super Wednesday, which has long become Thursday, and 24 drafts. You have said that this way of handling drafts and planning such work is normal. Certainly, 24 drafts have been on the Wednesday agenda before, but a little bit of the weight, meaning and content of the drafts could be looked at. When we discuss the basic law of the state budget here at 2:00 a.m., I don't think it's normal. Just as we do not come to the Riigikogu Hall drunk, so we should not deal with such matters during physiological sleep. Undoubtedly, the Free Party Group proposes to reject the draft law amending the State Budget Act initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1052	On behalf of the Jürgen Ligi Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1053	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I thought Ratas was talking about this shit about economic growth and getting entrepreneurship going. At a time when Eesti Pank says that the fire is being extinguished with gasoline, the Wheel is talking about economic recovery. If entrepreneurs are more angry with the government than ever before, he says he's gonna get it going, it's not their business. But it turns out Sester's saying the exact same thing. He's the one at the lever, the representative of the right-wing party. He decides what is economic and whether he pours in or does not pour in. In his view, economic growth is a matter of self-satisfaction. How many times did he ask if you would be satisfied or not satisfied? He's got it. If he's satisfied, he's not gonna pull the lever, but if he's insatiable, he's gonna pull. That's how he described it. Once again, entrepreneurs are vicious as wasps and show direct distrust. All the closest supporters say Sester should resign, but he says here that the economy is being revived. Eesti Pank says that this fiscal policy undermines the potential of economic growth, not only the budget, but also the potential of economic growth, as it aggravates structural problems and makes it difficult to intervene in time. But he says he doesn't, he doesn't have the satisfaction. The Minister of Finance should talk about economic problems in the context of the general European economy. We are an open, small economy, very dependent on exports. How about this? We know that Russia and Finland have been a problem that has been holding us back a lot, but the whole of Europe has also held us back. We have a volatile economy, they don't have that much. Second, labor. Do we have it? What is the labour situation? Anyone who appreciates the situation says that achieving full employment, increasing domestic demand at all, is not the place where pouring money could help the economy. But the Minister of Finance is speaking. He could talk about the economic structure, the ageing population and also about innovation, which we have little in business. He says he's in charge, he's the plan committee. This is extremely depressing, given that it is not a middle party. He's talking about an average structural balance with an innocent face, like he's discovering something or killing balls. He said several times that he was going to kill the ball, and then he said the same stupidity that had already been overturned several times. We live at the expense of the past, we eat the reserve of the past, and we force the governments of the future to cut down, and that is the average balance! We are not talking about nominal balance, which is a nominal deficit. When economic growth is poor, it is a normal thing. We are talking about a structural balance, which means living directly above power, which no government should afford. According to this principle, we made a law in our own time. We are not talking about nominal balance at all; it is an instrument of economic recovery or recovery. Of course, when it comes to the structural problem in the economy, what our economy needs is not concrete, but that is the only answer the government has given. The fridges were supposed to be needed. An unusually strange example, by the way. The government's gonna have an idea in December that he wants to buy a fridge, but he can't, and he doesn't understand why he can't. That's a ridiculous debate. [[Interjection.]] All this criminal initiative is made worse by the fact that, in the same year that the law forces the government to achieve budgetary balance, euro money will close more or less. We will no longer be net recipients. It's an additional cut. So what does the government have to do? He has to come from minus 0. It's a direct cut, poor... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1054	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1055	Don't look at me, Minister of Finance! If you don't understand, go to school! A zero coming out of a mine means a budget cut or an extra payment. This whole thing is related to the political cycle: 'If I am in power, we will spend! ' There is nothing to do with the situation of the workforce, the need for investment in the future, or what is happening internationally. He doesn't give a shit. The National Audit Office has said that this is technically the weakest law they have seen. Those are technical details, I'm not going to name them. But what I think is more politically important is that the liquidity reserve obligation is being taken down at a time when risks are actually increasing. The minister also dimmed about reserves when he said they weren't there. It's always been like this, we've been in balance for a long time. But the reduction of reserves during the crisis is a fair game, that's what the reserves are for. It was extremely cynical how it was in the past, but I was watching how this structural balance was during Sõerdi. Sõerd wasn't in the Reform Party then, but more importantly, there was no such indicator yet. So we made a mistake, we set off nominally, we made a budget consciously with a surplus, but we were unconsciously living in a structural minus. This boom experience, followed by a crisis, was the reason why the provision for structural balance in Europe was legalised in 2014 at all. After all, this was because of the crisis experience. But this man will come and tell us about Aivar Sõerd, who said he lived in the minus. That minus wasn't measured at that time. However, it was indeed said that Stalnukhin has the right to have a boom, too rapid growth, too high inflation, too high a current account deficit and too low unemployment. That's what the kids said back then. We sensed there was a problem, but we thought we were coming out. It didn't just come out like that. It needed to be surrounded. Now this law is essentially abolished. Here somebody asked it, I think it was Andres Herkel, whether it had to be written into the Constitution. After all, it was even an agreement at European level that the balance would be written either in the Constitution or in the Constitutional Law. We chose the 51 votes of the law, the same basic law of the state budget, and did not go against the Constitution with complicated terms. How would I have written'structural balance' in this beautiful, literaryly beautiful text? That wouldn't have been possible. That's why we decided this way. However, this man should now sink underground when he remembers what he's been saying here and how Mart Laar then spun and said that it was his idea that we write it into the Constitution. But now everything is exactly the opposite: now we leave it out at all, now it is no longer necessary, it is not necessary. So it's embarrassing. Why don't you step back, Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1056	Jaak Madison, please, on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1057	There is also this rejection proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1058	I was wondering if you forgot. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1059	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We forgive Jürgen because it's 2.04. But now from this bill. Really, this debate has been long and intense. It has been amazing to hear the answers of the Minister of Finance, which has no substance. My first complaint to Mr Sester is that only a year ago, when there was another coalition and it was led by the Reform Party, your answers were 180 degrees different. You defended a balanced budget and a lack of deficit very strongly. You protected the reserves. But now you are unscrupulously justifying the admission of a deficit to economic growth. There is only one reason: the lack of principles and worldview. You can't talk about defending your program and representing your constituents here. I fear it will represent the entire IRL group and the political party in general. In the debate on this draft, we have not yet seen any Members from your group, until now, when the fresh chairman arrived in the Chamber. It's a disgrace! [[Interjection.]] Yes, Mr. Seeder. My questions I asked twice concerned reserves. You said, completely outrageously, that the Republic of Estonia has no reserves, because our responsibilities are higher than the reserves. Why did I not hear such claims a year or two years ago when you praised that our reserves were over EUR 700 million? Now, as a member of the left-wing government, you have come to claim that we have no reserves. You have also come to claim that there is no difference in whether we issue bonds, take out loans or increase deficits, because all of this can be accounted for by reserves. It's a psychopathic problem and an idiotic story that's never been heard in this hall before. I'm not the first or the last one to say that. I'm certainly not the first. The psychopathic problem does not only concern one minister; it is a wider problem. But it's really embarrassing. I also want to convey the very great concern of Estonian entrepreneurs. The Conservative People's Party has, of course, recently been joined by a number of entrepreneurs with long-standing experience, who have also expressed very deep concern. For example, the Estonian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises sees the current government as a very serious threat to our business environment. One part of this, one of many, is the change in budgetary policy. Speaking of a change in the principles of the current government, particularly one of the divisions of government, i.e. the IRL, treachery and deceit, it must be remembered that it was only in 2012, five years ago that you wanted to make the Constitution a requirement that the budget be balanced. Today, in order to remain in the government at all costs, knowing that you will no longer have a seat in this Chamber after the next elections, you will be willing to sell any promises. The attitude that we are taking away the surplus for the last four years and spending it over the next four years is simply vulgar, because obviously, in the next four years, we cannot expect a budget surplus of the same size. But, of course, the IRL is willing to go along with the promises made on the left to carry out its over-exploited promises, and for that they are also willing to sacrifice the 2020 or 2021 budget. Can I have a few more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1060	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1061	This is really embarrassing. Which party can be chosen by one of the conservative voters on the right who first chose the IRL, but now sees that there is no difference, the party IRL supported by him is willing to betray any principles, no matter what promises? Of course, the answer is that the only party worth supporting is the Conservative People's Party. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] I'm going to have to quote a new business day editorial. So far, it has been a very right-hand and business-friendly publication, who has also realised that only conservative and right-hand politics can promote the Estonian economy and entrepreneurship. This is also the main message to the new Chairman of the IRL, Mr. Seeder, and also to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Sester, about whom, by the way, Mr. Käo, a large company, said only yesterday that if the IRL had any vigour and intelligence, he would replace this minister. This is true because a minister who overnight changes his basic positions is not fit for his post because he is unable to defend his party's positions. But now to quote: 'Business Day estimates that the formation of a new government is a good idea, and IRL can play a decisive role in this venture, which can save them from fading. (As a note, I don't think so. J.M.) IRL, who has received a new chairman in the form of Mr. Helir-Valdor Seeder, has now a great opportunity to show that they have a world view and a willingness to do something. ' Therefore, the Reform Party, together with IRL, EKRE and the Free Party, would be able to establish at least a viable government union until the next Riigikogu elections and send opposition to the Central Party together with the Socialists. Let us be honest and look at what has happened in the last six months. Left turn or left extreme is the last thing we need in Estonia, because so many of the company's reproaches, I think, we have not seen in the last ten years. Yes! Tax increases patch up the budget and demagogue that it is in the interests of business. However, we do not find any entrepreneurs who would approve it or warmly welcome it. We really don't see them. Therefore, Mr Sester, you better be willing to listen to the advice of big entrepreneurs and small businesses and to give up your position. I'll tell the IRL that if you really want to have some kind of future perspective over the next few years, you better come to your senses and leave the current government, because it'll take you down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-17_U1062	The last negotiator probably didn't forget anything. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Honourable Riigikogu, the Commission's proposal is to conclude the second reading of draft 456. [[Interjections.]] I'm sorry! First reading. It's late. It's getting a little messy. But the Estonian Free Party Group and the Reform Party Group have proposed to reject the draft 456 at first reading. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Group of the Estonian Free Party and the Group of the Reform Party 456 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There are 35 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this proposal and 50 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for submitting 456 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 May.
