ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The 5th working week Tuesday session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu has begun. Now is the time to hand over the drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. One message before the check-in. Today, at the end of the plenary session, there will be an opening meeting of the Estonian-Rwanda parliamentary group in this Chamber, convened by Marianne Mikko. Incoming check, please! 79 delegates will take part in the meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U2	Today's first item is the first reading of Bill 461 of the Act on the Repeal of the Cohabitation Act initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U3	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, This is a bill that is simple and short: our proposal is to repeal the Cohabitation Act in Estonia. This is the third time in the current Riigikogu we have tried to repeal this law. I therefore think that we have been through these arguments several times. Our position is, in point 1, that same-sex cohabitation does not require national regulation. Property relationships can be regulated by other ways. The Cohabitation Act has never been a law that gives rights or deals with human rights in any way. It is an ideological enforcement project to impose different positions on society with a national coercion mechanism and unacceptable to the majority of the Estonian people. Secondly, as we have seen, the cohabitation law is not used in practice, perhaps the people who said, even before the adoption of this law, that there was no real need for it, were right. Thirdly, the Cohabitation Act has not been implemented and does not appear to be implemented anytime soon. It is true that we see courts trying to hijack Parliament's role and to implement this law on their own, in the face of constitutional order. In order for this to not happen, it is also necessary to repeal the Cohabitation Act. Our proposal to Parliament is to abolish a bad law that nobody needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U4	Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U5	Yeah, what am I here for a long time...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U6	Any questions for the waitress? Yes, it is. March Sults.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U7	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! The question is this: if today happens as we do not want it to happen, when will we re-enter this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U8	Thank you. Yes, I consider it an extremely bad solution or a bad political tone to what was done here before the local elections, when, in essence, our Rules of Procedure - the law - were still violated and the debate on this bill was postponed beyond seven working weeks from the procedure. I consider the House Party of Märt Sults to be an accomplice to this scheme. After all, it was understandable why this was done: they did not want to look voters in the eye before the elections. All Estonian political parties know that their voters did not support the adoption of the Cohabitation Act, they did not support the implementation of the Cohabitation Act and they did not support the existence of this Act. The majority of voters of all Estonian political parties would rather support the repeal of this law. And then how do you press a button in the Riigikogu that contradicts your electorate's wishes? In any case, they do not want to do this before the elections, so it is local or Riigikogu elections. But in answer to your question, if this bill falls out of procedure now, we can certainly have the MPs show again how they feel about repealing the Cohabitation Act before the Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U9	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U10	Thank you. That's my question. Your group has proposed that this law be repealed three times. Every time the Riigikogu has shown its attitude very clearly and your proposal has been rejected. So what's changed now that we have to do it over and over and over again?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U11	Thank you. What has changed is that in spring, when we introduced this bill, two political parties, the IRL and the Reform Party were elected a new chairman. The new chairman of the IRL said very clearly that it was an important issue for them to oppose the Cohabitation Act; it was different from the opinion of the former president of the IRL, who had not wanted to touch on this subject with a very high profile. Before, during and after the Reform Party Congress, the Reform Party took a clear stance to show that they were more conservative than before. I don't know exactly where their conservativeness is going or how it's covered in 'acts' and 'voices', but I'm reminding the middle line here that if you had Congress, it was clearly said that the party was shifting into a more conservative stream than it was so far, which I really liked. Thirdly, on previous occasions, when this proposal has been voted on, there has been a different composition of the government, i.e. the Centre Party has not been in the government. The decision of the management board of the Centre Party is to support the annulment of this law. The Centre Party Group has previously initiated and supported the proposal to repeal this law. True, they have always lost a considerable number of members during the vote, but their official position is clear. I honestly admit that the Cohabitation Act is, in this sense, a grateful law, that it helps to clarify so many things. He is such a litmustic law in our eyes, and he is a catalyst law, he catalyzes certain political processes in Estonia and does not permit or allow people to play a two-faced game. In the end, you have to press the button and show who you are. All these positions taken to support the family or support the Estonians cost nothing if you are really a supporter of the traditional family destruction law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U12	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U13	In general, I am, of course, in favour of discussing this law, that is perfectly understandable. There are problems in society, there are pros and cons. The most amazing thing is that my colleague, the Socialist, who spoke before me, took the view that there were issues that we should not talk about. The only way to talk is, as we know, second reading, because there are no speeches at first reading, there are only the texts given by the political groups, which are read here. There is no argument or substantive argument. In this sense, this bill must, of course, go to second reading. But don't you have the fear that I have a little? Look, this is a bad cohabitation law. Aren't you afraid there might be a good cohabitation law? Is that what we want? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U14	Thank you. I'll come back to what I said in advance. The position of our party is that the same-sex relationship does not require any national regulation. These people are completely insignificant in Estonian society and, in addition, they live together very unstablely. Let people have the pleasure of moving together and leaving as many times as they want, or being more than two or three pairs, or, I don't know, whatever it is that's my business. But it shouldn't be regulated nationally. With regard to the question of whether the Cohabitation Act, the Cohabitation Act or the Civil Partnership, everything is a garbage shipment, there is no difference. I don't need regulation, that's all. The law of cohabitation, I agree, is an awfully bad law. The way he was adopted was the rape of the political process and democracy. The way he's not valid is disgusting and disgusting. It taunts all the rule of law. The law of cohabitation taunts the rule of law. In that sense, he should be cancelled. Even if you believe that the law of cohabitation is some kind of noble thing, it is not in practice. Is there something better to replace? Go ahead, put the bill into business, and adopt a law that is fair, at least for your purposes. If it has Parliament's support, then okay, if it has public support, then okay, but we do not support it, our group does not support it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U15	I must honestly say that the enthusiasts of the Cohabitation Act have tried to approach us in order to find out under what conditions we would be willing to support the regulation of same-sex life. The answer is very simple. If we are persuaded that this 'civil partnership' is not really a secret way of re-definition of marriage in all the countries where the civil partnership has been legalised, then we will finally have a re-definition of marriage, if this hall adopts an addition to § 27 of the Constitution, which says that marriage is a permanent alliance between one man and one woman, and if we have clear assurances that children will not be included in this civil partnership, then we can discuss it. But we all know that neither the Cohabitation Act, the Civil Partnerships nor the Couple Act have anything to do with any rights, but it is an ideological enforcement process, it is a procedure for repressing people's conscience, and it cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U16	Please, Terje Trei!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U17	Thank you! Good waitress! My question is motivated by your response to Liisa Oviir, which was very confusing to me. One way or another, he said that everyone should press this button and not be duplicitous. At the same time, you have made it clear that the situation has changed as party leaders have changed. Therefore, when my party chairman has changed, your argument is that it is as if my face should have changed as well. So, what are you saying now? Has the previous press of the button in this Chamber been the will of the individuals themselves, or is it only now that they have the opportunity to express their will? I don't get it. How do you conclude that the change is due to the change of party presidents? Do people in your party do what you want, and if your party chairman were to be immediate, they would do what he wants? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U18	I'm not a party chairman, by the way. Honestly, I'm surprised I don't understand. If a political party congress elects a new chairman, this new chairman will have a platform, and if he receives the support of the Congress, this platform will serve as a guideline for the whole party and also for the political group. Let us not pretend here that there is no voting discipline in the political groups. Politics is a dynamic process. All people and political parties are always allowed to improve their minds and review their positions. Returning to the truth is also always possible. So we're actually offering people the third time to fix the mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U19	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U20	Thank you. Good Martin! The way you described what's going on in the Reform Party is nice. But please, describe what is going on in your own political group and political party. We in the Reform Party will be able to do our own thing. There is consistency within the Reform Party, including in the positions of the Chairs. As regards the Cohabitation Act, the decision of the Management Board of the Reform Party continues to apply. As far as the concept of marriage is concerned, marriage is made between a man and a woman, as the law of the family says. Similarly, the decision taken at the board level in the Reform Party is that we support gender-neutral partnerships. So if you take something to describe, maybe describe your feelings, but not what happens in other parties. It wasn't a question, it was a suggestion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U21	Thank you. I don't really want to tell the other parties how to think. I would like to help the public understand the political spin better. All parties like to make themselves visible with popular views from time to time. Supporting a traditional family in Estonia is generally much more popular than fighting for same-sex rights. It is true that there are niche parties who have made it their own bread number, but the absolute majority of Estonian voters, the voters of all political parties do not regard it as such a great value; they still regard the traditional family as a greater value. These messages, which remained in the spring during the change of leader of the Reform Party, were that the Reform Party supports traditional marriage and traditional family relations. I'm just happy about that. But I must honestly admit that I do not consider it very logical or conceptually or ideologically coherent when, at the same time, supporting the traditional law of marriage and cohabitation. I think that there is a substantive contradiction here and, at the time of this contradiction, it will be very useful if it is possible to choose which one will be more supported. This option can be displayed immediately by pressing the button.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U22	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U23	Thank you, good manager. A good waitress, suddenly you define Estonian? If there are gays and lesbians living in Estonia who rejoice in this cohabitation law, are they somehow outside what is, by definition, Estonian? What is Estonian according to your understanding?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U24	Thank you. I don't know where there's a contradiction here. A different sexual orientation does not prevent anyone from being an Estonian. I don't know how you've even figured it out. If you want me to define Estonia, I say it is a cultural and origin-based identity. I've been arguing with people or talking to them about it. It is such a new madness in Estonia that all the people who are here are called Estonians, but it is simply not possible in principle. The Estonian can be the person whose parent, or at least one of his grandparents, has been an Estonian, then he will be able to treat himself as an Estonian, and in this case he will have to identify himself as an Estonian. I've heard some nonsense like we have Russian-speaking Estonians. I know a story about a Russian Estonian. My father-in-law was deported to Siberia when he was three years old and went to school there. When he finally got back to Estonia, he was in Russian. He began speaking Estonian again in Estonian school, of course, but he was a Russian Estonian. Those people who have moved here from somewhere else who do not speak Estonian and whose parents or grandparents are not Estonians cannot be Estonians, just basically. It was about how we define Estonian here. But when it comes to sexual minorities, private choices or personal qualities do not change whether you are Estonian or not, and sexual orientation is one of those private choices or personal qualities. A person can be long or short, thick or thin. These are other categories than a national identity.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U25	Liisa Oviir, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U26	Thank you. My question is also motivated by your answer to my previous question. A little bit of this was already touched, but I am still interested in this connection: what do you think is the link between Estonians and the Cohabitation Act and what is the traditional family in Estonia in 2017?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U27	I am actually a little confused because I do not understand the relationship between the cohabitation law or homosexuality and Estonianism. I just don't see any connection to what it's got to do with it. But the traditional family in 2017 is the same as it was in 2001 or 1970: one man, one woman, their permanent cohabitation or permanent union, which has been socially recognized differently at different times (at the old age there was a church wedding, now may be a state registration, but in any case this union is somehow fixed, either by means of witnesses or in a universally accepted way), and their children. It's a traditional marriage. This has been the case in all societies since the beginning of time, and it is also the same in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U28	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U29	Thank you very much. Mr. Helme! Estonia has been a member of the Council of Europe for more than a generation. This means that for Estonia as a member of the Council, the European Convention on Human Rights is the same as the Christian Bible. One of the cornerstones of human rights is fundamental rights. I am very interested in how you understand fundamental rights in 2017.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U30	Thank you. I will begin my answer by saying that the European Court of Human Rights has quite freshly, in my opinion, given a decision about six months ago, according to which no state has the obligation to grant marriage or cohabitation rights to couples of the same sex. That is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights. As far as fundamental rights and human rights are concerned, I categorically disagree with the fact that rights are group-based. Rights are individual. Fundamental rights have been a small and more or less certain category for more than 200 years, since the time of the independence of the United States or the French Revolution, in fact. The right to liberty, the right to life, the right to self-realization and the resulting right to fair trial, etc. These are fundamental rights. Freedom of conscience and freedom of expression are the cornerstones of all rights, and without them other rights cannot be realised, because you cannot even argue about the existence or absence of your rights. In this light, it is particularly disgusting that the group rights of sexual minorities have now been used for years and years in the Western countries, and we are moving on the same path in Estonia to repress individual freedom of conscience and the right to freedom of expression. If we come more specifically to the law on partnership, it is not a fundamental right or a human right. By the way, very interesting, I got into a conversation during the election campaign with a lesbian who came to me and told me honestly that he wanted to pick a fight with me. We were talking, of course, about the law of partnership. He also felt that the law of cohabitation was a human right. So I patiently tried to explain that she, as a woman, an adult and able woman, has the same right to find a man and marry all the other Estonian women. Every Estonian man has the same right to find a woman and marry other men. No one has taken that right away from them; that right is equal to all others. What he wants is a special right, a special right to a nationally recognised partnership that is different from that of others. This is not a human right, it is not a fundamental right, it is a special treatment that is required, a special treatment based on a feature that we considered to be a very deplorable behaviour a few decades ago or a generation ago. Let us be honest that a very large number of people in Estonia continue to consider this to be a very deplorable way of doing things. We do not repress it in any way, because we believe in the law of human self-realisation, but we should not recognise it nationally, approve it, certainly not share special rights on this basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U31	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U32	You pointed out that this type of partnership laws are the first step towards gay marriages. The Estonian Cohabitation Act does not exist; the Estonian Cohabitation Act is the Gay Marriage Act and it would be much easier if we acknowledged it. See, for example, § 2 of the Cohabitation Act. Like you said, they're looking for a compromise. A compromise could be a corresponding amendment to the Constitution. I was looking at it now, but what if you define marriage in law as just a form of church living together, in other words, marriage wouldn't be something that was concluded outside the church, then it would be a normal civil transaction, something that is now being pursued. Last thing, doesn't it bother you that we have so much talk in the hall that we don't talk, let's not discuss and let's not go to second reading, but keep quiet? Is that the way out?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U33	Thank you. It bothers me very much that political forces believe that there is some kind of invisible list of taboo topics in Estonia that speaking about or misthinking changes this person, of course, depending on who he is, or who he is, or who he is. It is not a hallmark of healthy democracy, it is either a sign of the banana republic or of autocracy, if we have some kind of invisible list of topics that must not be dealt with or should not be dealt with in the wrong key. I think it's very dangerous, I think it's extremely dangerous. I also have to say that all autocrats are always awful moody. Let's see what's going on in the West, in the world of so-called sexual minorities or homosexuals. It's like you're going to sleep tonight, and you think you're a perfectly progressive person, on the right side of all matters, but in the morning you wake up and find out that you're a horrible backward man who hasn't realized at all that now we have a new fashion, today we're not talking about the sexes, there's no LGBT, but there's a whole series of letters, and there's some x's at the end, and if you don't understand this last x, you're gonna have to be burned because you're a backwards and hateful. This moodiness and pretentiousness, the demand for absolute obedience and acceptance that we see in the case of representatives of this political ideology, is appalling and clearly anti-democratic. There is only one answer to them: go to the forest, I will not play this game, I will speak with the words I want, I will speak on the topics on which I want, and I will say what I think, on my side there is an absolute majority of the Estonian public, and no one can shut me up. What we see from time to time is just ridicule, this pretentiousness just has to be ridiculed. We stand here for normality. But if I answer your question about ecclesiasticality, I'll say it's very dangerous, very dangerous. I remember a couple of weeks ago, when we were sending the Mouth Clear, we could see the new-Marxist Heretics trying to tear down the church from the inside. They do not want to make their new religion similar to Scientology or something else, and where some totally modern truths are the basis of doctrine, but they want to destroy this institution and the teaching that has been going on for 2,000 years and which I have to say is that I am going to seek peace in order to escape the madness of modern times. But they want to take it away from me, fuckers, they want to take it away from me and fuck it up. If we create a situation where the church must be the institution that is the last and only barrier to defending traditional marriage, then we will still put this poor church under a brutal blow. I'm ready to be the bulwark first, I don't want it to be the church. That's my answer. The second thing is that, let us be honest, we broadly appreciate that about 20% of Estonia's people are church people or religious people. I'm afraid it's a little too small a part of society that an institution as important as marriage can only stay on their shoulders. I recently got into an argument with an ambassador. I generally avoid all kinds of embassy receptions because I don't want to argue with these diplomats, but I got there during the election campaign. I was arguing with a progressive female ambassador who was about to turn a button on the law of cohabitation. I then tried to explain to him that Estonia is clearly in a demographic crisis, that the regeneration of the population has been below the necessary limit for a long time, that the population is in an exodus phase, while strangers come in at the same time. Where are the kids coming from? We still have to explain that children come from a life together between a man and a woman and that the best growing environment is a stable and traditional family. If we want to emerge from the demographic crisis, we need to understand jointly as a society that the family institution needs to be strengthened and that the traditional family institution needs to be given priority. This is the basis for our continued existence. If we don't know what kind of modern Pietes we're going to demolish this institution and equalize it with some other forms of cohabitation that are essentially nonproductive from a population perspective, then we can accept all kinds of things here, but it ends with Muslims coming in and putting a bag on all the social democratic female ambassadors and that's it. We will protect you so that you have the same rights that you think we are demolishing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U34	Ladies and gentlemen, I strongly advise not to use vocals in this hall, even if I would very much like to use them. Toomas Jürgenstein, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U35	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Your political advisor, Espenberg, has written books on intimate relations for a very long time. I have an interview with the Estonian Express, where he recommends a wide range of sexual relations called sexual cataracts. How is EKRE's general view of whether these special sexual relations should be enjoyed in order to reach a lasting marriage, as Espenberg suggests?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U36	I honestly have to admit I haven't read this book. I don't know what the context of this quote is. I know that Urmas Espenberg is a proponent of traditional marriage and is clearly opposed to the Cohabitation Act, as well as to the promotion and popularisation of homosexual relations. This is a very important extension you brought in. The left thinks it's all about sex, everything, this whole cohabitation law, this whole thing, it's all about sex, you keep talking about sex. We do not think so. In our opinion, it revolves around the general and long-term benefits of society and around what is right and what is wrong, what is good and what is bad. I will answer your question that, of course, every human being's nature includes sexuality, it needs to be enjoyed, but it has its own contexts for how to enjoy it. We think the best frame for this is marriage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U37	Hannes Hanso.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U38	Thank you. Personally, I am very sorry that this vote did not come to last week, but I am not ashamed of my position on this matter. I think it is foolish, of course, to constantly drag this issue of partnership into daily politics, but I, on the contrary, wished for it and did everything I could to make sure that my constituents knew that I was a fiery supporter of this issue of partnership, because I think it is part of the larger package that free, democratic and normal countries are striving for. I mention some, not all can be mentioned: Finland, for example, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Catholic Ireland, there is no difference between Germany, France, etc. In short, well-off, open, normal countries, the United States, Canada, etc. It's a club. Then there is another club: Russia, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Yemen, many African countries. Then there are organizations such as ISIS and the Taliban. And Putin and Kadyrov certainly, who personally strongly opposes this whole issue. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] And then there's Helmed and EKRE. Which club do you think Estonia should belong to, the first one or the second one?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U39	Thank you. It was an excellent demagoguery. I am also sorry that we did not get to the vote last week. I think all Social Democrats would have voted the same way last week if they voted this week. I think, unfortunately, that there is a very important difference between this week's vote and last week's vote, with different results. But when we talk about the United States, for example, there are people in about 25 states who have voted down gay marriages or civil partnerships. Some states have also voted in favour, for example, in Massachusetts, and that is the way it should be. But this ended with the Supreme Court voting four: 5 deciding that homosexuality must be legal throughout the country. In a country of 300 million people, five people decided that this was the case. This is not democracy. This is not democracy! It's the dictatorship of the judges. When we talk about Germany, England, Finland, Norway, whatever country, and when I look at the direction these countries are going, I do not want to follow the same trend with these countries. Absolutely not! These countries have evolved into a very distant phase of decadence. They are demographically in a more difficult situation than in Estonia's human life perspective. Security has run out there, because of their openness, their open borders, they're no longer safe. It has run out of well-being in that sense. No, no, we're talking about openness, you said it yourself, it's a bigger package. It all ends with five times a day the imam invites them to pray, and that's it. [[Interjection.]] No, there isn't, there isn't, it's a phase. Let's see what's going on in the Netherlands, for example, which once was a very popular and very progressive, truly rainbow-coloured gay country. Now it's over, the Muslims are done with it, the immigration is done with it. It's a transitory phase, diversity ends very one-sidedly. In England, there are cities and regions where multiwife housing is basically a socially and nationally accepted norm, while homoclubs in the area have all gone to prison. It's all finished. Openness results in closure and the end of traditional Western society. So, yes, it's all in the package, it's really in the package. We can talk about Putin or Kadyrov here. But I would like to draw your attention to this, dear bastards, who are you great advocates of animal rights, do you know that this makes you the hardened Nazis? Because Hitler's Germany was the first country in the world to adopt an animal protection law. Now, if you're saying that some things were good in Germany in the 1930s, then you're double-bonded Nazis. So I don't know what kind of company you're in.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U40	Please, Barbi Pilvre!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U41	Thank you. Your previous reply did not make it clear whether, for example, two pure blood Estonian men who are gay and live together can carry an Estonian. But I actually wanted to ask you, how many marriages are traditional by your definition, whether, for example, the second, third or fourth marriages are traditional.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U42	I don't understand how you don't understand. I thought I made that very clear. Now try to pull yourself together, you bastards, and don't do eugenics. We have never dealt with eugenics; we have never pursued a pure-bred Estonian, never. The Soot talk about pureness all the time, but we've never said it, once, you won't find a single quote like that. We are talking about cultural identity and ancestry. So I don't know what you're measuring pure-bred Estonians by, we can't measure pure-bred. In my opinion, I said very clearly that this is not relevant; the sexual orientation of a person is a different category than his nationality. That's a good question, how many marriages are traditional. In my opinion, you could still marry only once in your life, and this marriage could last for the rest of your life. We know that in the real world, in real life, sometimes it happens that marriages break up, and sometimes it happens that people get married a second time. I know people who have been married for the third or fourth time, but I don't think it's a really traditional marriage activity and behavior anymore.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U43	Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U44	Thank you. Mr Helme, I come back to my previous question. I asked about fundamental rights, but you spoke in your response about the election campaign and how you met a lesbian. I'm pushing what you said to him then. You said proudly that you advised him to marry a man. [[???Martin Helme: 'Ei soovitanud.'???]] You'd make a lesbian miserable, as an intelligent man, you realize that. Why did you mock lesbian?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U45	You got it wrong, you didn't suggest it. I said that he has the same right as all other Estonian women to find a suitable or pleasant man who is willing to marry him, that is, he has the same right to marry him now. He is not discriminated against, there is no limit to his right to marriage. He wants a special right besides the right everyone has. I didn't recommend anything to him. I don't have any advice on how he's supposed to live his life. As a conservative, I think every person has to cope with his own life. I'm not gonna hold hands with anyone and take him to his happiness, unlike the Snotlout. I didn't recommend marrying a man or forcing him to marry a man, forbiding him from living with a woman or several women, if that's any better. I just don't think the state should regulate it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U46	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U47	Thank you. It's nice to listen to someone who knows a lot about personal life. But I'm asking you as a representative of the sexual minority. I'm married in a traditional way, but in your case, I've heard my groupmate call a prodigy in the field of extramarital relations. What is your party's official position on whether it is possible to have sexual relations before marriage?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U48	Thank you. Our party does not have a formal position on this matter. I will stick to what I said in reply to the previous question: I think that people's privacy should be kept as little as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U49	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It's nice to listen to someone who knows history so well. You said there was something progressive about Hitler in Germany, didn't you, first animal protection law? Did you know that this law was passed to limit the Jews' ability to follow their faith? It was only directed against German Jews who were killed after all. Religious Jews use only... I don't know how it sounds in Estonian, kosher...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U51	That's the kosher.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U52	It's the same meat, isn't it? This law was designed to prevent animals from being killed as required by their faith and to make them criminals only for the way they kill animals. Did you know that? Was there a certain irony in your words, or can you honestly say that this is the first time you have heard about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U53	That all laws were used in Germany in the 1930s to bully the Jews, we know, of course. But the right thing is, I was banging sock.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U54	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U55	Thank you. We all know that the state has declared family protection, and the law of the family states that marriage is to be concluded between a man and a woman. But the Cohabitation Act gives absolutely free hands to enter into a completely unlimited number of these partnerships, in short, attempts have been made to legalise polygamy in Estonia. Against this legal background, we have cases where judges have tried to resort to the law of non-EU countries, in violation of Estonian law and using the law of foreign countries, which has not entered into force because there are no implementing acts. What kind of judgment do you make?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U56	Thank you. In fact, as Igor Gräzin pointed out earlier, the cohabitation is in fact similar to a marriage until it is replaced, whereas § 2 of the Act lists essentially the same grounds, in which case the partnership may not or may not be concluded. The relationship cannot be concluded between relatives; there are basically no other restrictions. It's one of the family laws written down. The Estonian Cohabitation Act also allows adoption. In this sense, it is a law that goes much further than that when the then oppressors of that law confessed to the public. Indeed, the law does not enter into force clearly, the last paragraph of this law states under what conditions it will enter into force: it will enter into force when implementing acts exist. There are no implementing acts, so it has not entered into force. This uglier or greater harm is caused to society by a situation in which courts have become disenfranchised under the law. It is the power of the court, it is the undermining of the rule of law, it is legal activism or judicial activism, as we call it, when courts hijack the power that only Parliament has. This is one of the very bad side effects that the Cohabitation Act has brought into Estonia's politics and legal space. This is one of the reasons why this law should be repealed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U57	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U58	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good performer! I have a very simple question. This issue has been under discussion for a very long time. I'm listening to this debate and I'm thinking about the people whose happiness you're forbidding or the people you're taking away the future from. If there were a person in your own tribe who would be happy with this law, and you would care about that person, what would you say to him?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U59	I don't know where you're gonna get that I'm gonna take somebody's luck away. I think that people's happiness does not depend on national regulation. At least we should try to move towards a national regulation that does not take away people's happiness. I say that there were many more people in Estonia who were unhappy because of the adoption of this law than those who were happy because of it. I say that those people who have wanted to use this law have done so. There's a handful of them, a bunch of them. I've had conversations with gay people who say they don't need it, they don't need the fight that's come with it. I have spoken to people who are gay, who will vote for us and say that they agree with us on this issue too, but even more so, they agree with us on immigration issues, for example. They will understand that their lifestyle is at risk if the same immigration policy continues, which we will be given as examples from Finland, Sweden, England, Germany. Without any basis, the argument is that this law would take happiness away from anyone. They won't. Nobody gets involved with this law. However, the feelings of a terrible number of Estonian people were hurt by the adoption of this law and the way it was passed. But they don't seem to worry about anyone but us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U60	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In some of your answers, you indicated that if anyone in Estonia could confirm that they would not engage in traditional marriages or want to redefine it, you would be prepared to revise your position or at least be open to debate. What do you suggest to the people who are in this room today who are convinced that the traditional family will not be attacked? Can they vote on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U62	Thank you. My clear recommendation is that this law must first be abolished and then let those to whom this matter is important come up with a draft that is neither false nor fraudulent, but which offers solutions to the concerns that they believe exist in society today in relation to the same sexes. I once again assure you that, according to our understanding, the Cohabitation Act offers no practical solutions to anyone, but is clearly an instrument of ideological enforcement and repression. First, let us start by abolishing this law, and then if anyone sees that there is a terrible need for some kind of law, come up with a bill, come up with a public debate, where he will explain the draft and explain it to both the public and Parliament. I don't think we're going to support this bill. I see no reason to change the view that this regulation is simply not necessary. If anyone thinks he's convincing the public opinion and the majority in Parliament, then force to work! But let's start by abolishing this bad law, this incomplete and bad law!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U63	Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U64	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, At the moment your party partner, Henn Põlluaas, told you that, according to the law of partnership, no matter how many partnerships can be made, I was hoping for a few moments that maybe Henn was the only one who couldn't read in the group. But when you started answering, I was wondering if you could read or if you were lying. Lying is forbidden in the Christian world. So one of the two, what did you do? But in order to lead you in the right direction, I read to you Article 2 of the Cohabitation Act, to which you yourself referred and claimed that it would give you the opportunity to make any number of partnerships. Paragraph 2 'Corporates preventing the conclusion of a partnership agreement', paragraph 1: 'A partnership agreement may not be concluded between persons of whom at least one is married at the time of the conclusion of the partnership agreement or who have a valid partnership agreement. " Let it be made clear now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U65	Thank you. No, I wasn't lying. I did not comment on the possibility of several agreements at the same time, because I believe that the focus of this issue was on the Court. But I referred to this paragraph precisely with the idea of saying that life together is basically similar to marriage, and I also referred to why it is. Because there are the same limitations. Just as you cannot have another marriage when you are married, you cannot enter into another partnership agreement during the term of the partnership agreement, or you cannot have a partnership agreement when you are married. Perhaps in essence, the partnership agreement and marriage are equal in the light of this paragraph. That was the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U66	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The question is motivated by your own answer. Wouldn't it perhaps be reasonable to offer something in place before you demolish and cancel society? What makes you think that you should replace something if you are the ones who want to ban this law? Isn't that a little hypocritical?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U68	We don't want to ban it. What do we want to ban here? We want to break the bad law. We don't want to ban any action, that's not right. It's not hypocritical. We have said from the outset that we do not think that this law is necessary, it is a bad law, it is badly adopted, it is a nuisance and it divides society, this law should in any case be abolished. In a situation where, in our view, this law has never been needed, we do not need to propose any new law of the same kind. I know this argument, which some other MPs have used, so that they can accept the repeal of the Cohabitation Act when we come up with a solution to the problem. But in our opinion, the solution to the problem is that this law has been repealed. Then there is the point, the problem is solved, there is no problem. I do not see the problem as if Estonia needs a cohabitation act or a civil partnership. There is no demand for it. The only demand is ideological; there is no practical need for it. So our goal is to abolish the law. If someone thinks that there is a huge need for some form of civil partnership or cohabitation law in another form, let them come up with "satisfying" that need, but we do not think that there is a need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U69	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U70	Thank you. Randpere quoted the law and claimed we were wrong. In fact, this is a typical example of this law being a failure. I quote: '... The Estonian House of Notaries, whose representative was the notary of Tallinn, Tea Türnpuu, answered the question whether it is possible to conclude partnership agreements on countless occasions. 'In fact, this question is not only hypothetical but also practical,' Türnpuu told Postimees. 'Notar has no way of checking whether people wishing to enter into a partnership agreement already have an agreement in the past. "The Law of Association allows for multiple cohabitations', ERR, 13 October 2017. ' This is a statement issued by the Chamber of Notaries four days ago. This should confirm once again that this whole law is a legal failure, that it is only for ideological purposes. I suppose you agree with that, too?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U71	Absolutely agree. Of course, those who are in favour of the Cohabitation Act will immediately call out that this is why we need implementing acts. But we say no, that's why we need to repeal the law. That's a bad law. Indeed, according to the article, according to the law itself, there should be no multiple contracts at the same time, but in practical life it is possible, just as in practical life it is possible to be married, but to have a relationship with more than one woman.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U72	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U73	Thank you. The law of cohabitation has now been in force for three years. I will be honest with you that my personal life has not been disturbed, and I do not know of any person whose personal life would have in any way interfered with the adoption of this law. Do you or others in your mind know someone whose personal life has changed somehow?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U74	Thank you. Honourable and honorable vigilante! We have a different opinion from yours on whether this law is valid or not. In our opinion, this is not a valid law because implementing acts have not been adopted. § 27 of the Cohabitation Act, if I remember correctly, says that the law will apply with implementing legislation. Well, that was the first part of the answer. The other part is that I know a specific person who moved away from Estonia because he was so angry at the adoption of the Cohabitation Act. I know a particular person whose life basically changed because of it. I know dozens and dozens of people, listen up! just who has said that they are deeply disappointed by the adoption of this law in Estonia. This is a law that has turned a great many people against the Estonian state. This is a bad law and it has affected people's lives.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U75	Eiki Nestor.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U76	My second question is on fundamental rights. If by law we defend the right of loving people to live together, why should we not allow all loving couples to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U77	I think the law should be blind in this sense that it should protect both hateful and loving people. It's not some kind of standard by which laws should be made. Laws should not deal with feelings, but with conduct. I actually answered that question before on several occasions. In Estonia, there is no limit to the possibility for any person to marry, unless the person has been deprived of his or her capacity to marry. Everyone has this opportunity, the same and equal. People who want different marriage or cohabitation rights from existing marriage laws want special treatment, so not equal treatment, but special treatment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U78	Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U79	Thank you, dear waitress. If we repeal this law now, it does not mean that we will eliminate these people from this world, we will not eliminate these people from this country either. What do you propose to replace?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U80	No, we don't eliminate people. We will not even liquidate these agreements; they will remain in force in the same way as the law provided for at the time of the conclusion of these agreements. Maybe the one person who left for the cohabitation act will come back to Estonia. What do we have to offer instead? We don't have to offer anything to replace. I do not know for many times that we believe that there is no social demand, no order or no need for the cohabitation of same-sex people under national regulation. We have seen in three years that 50 or more contracts have been signed. Do not tell me that the conclusion of contracts is behind the fact that there are no implementing acts. We see that no one really needed it. So you don't have to offer anything to replace it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U81	Hannes Hanso.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U82	Thank you. I asked before which club the good speaker thought Estonia could belong to either the club of free, democratic, Nordic, European and Western states, where everyone has a life together in one form or another, I think, legalised, legally organised, or another club of all Eastern countries, Arab countries and many African countries. I also gave examples of the Taliban, including the Vachabites and the ISIS or Iranian Ayatollahs. So where does EKRE think Estonia might belong? It's a value-based thing. How can you still see where Estonia could belong as a country, either in one club or in another?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U83	Thank you. I think you're confusing all these clubs if you put the Ayatollahs and ISIS in the same place as Latin America or CIS countries, for example. But if you ask what club we would like to belong to, the club we would like to belong to is a club like Poland or Hungary or a club like Latvia or Lithuania. Eastern Europe, which still has European values, traditional values and national values, unlike Western Europe, is the club we are in anyway.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U84	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you. Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U85	Thank you. The lead committee is the Legal Affairs Committee, which discussed this draft twice: the first on Monday, 25 September and the second on Thursday, 28 September. On the first day of the debate, i.e. 25 September, Uno Kaskpeit, Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Heljo Pikhof, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur, Märt Sults, Meelis Mälberg and Valdo Randpere took part in the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In addition, a member of the Riigikogu, Martin Helme, was invited as a representative of the initiator of the bill. First of all, Mr Helme was given the floor, who said that he was not going to be more specific about this draft, because the arguments put forward by the initiator regarding the repeal of the cohabitation act have not changed in the meantime, and the cohabitation act is an example of bad legislation. In practice, this law is not used and that is why it should be repealed. Jaanus Karilaid pointed out that the view that the law has caused more confusion than has cleared the situation has also been supported by the Minister of Justice. Mr Helme said that it has not been shown that this law is necessary in practice. During the Christmas season, it has been used by about 50 pairs, but it can be seen that the law divides society. Valdo Randpere pointed out that the Estonian Lawyers' Association has come up with the view that the Ministry of Justice should rather develop implementing provisions of the Cohabitation Act. In addition, he asked the draft author why the EKRE had re-submitted such a draft and whether the situation had changed in the meantime. Martin Helme then said that it does not matter what the Association of Lawyers says or what the President of Estonia says, it is important that Parliament does not want to implement this law. Heljo Pikhof expressed the view that the Committee on Legal Affairs should ask the Chancellor of Justice for an opinion on the situation when the partnership law was repealed. Mr Helme said that the Chancellor of Justice has repeatedly spoken on this subject, and if the Commission wants the official position of the Chancellor of Justice, this can also be asked at a later stage of the procedure. In his view, however, the fact that the Commission wishes the Chancellor of Justice's opinion before the first reading cannot be a justification for breaking the law and postponing the first reading. He announced that the initiator categorically opposed the postponement of the first reading. Valdo Randpere supported the proposal to invite the Chancellor of Justice to the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs before the first reading, on which the Chancellor of Justice drew Linnar Liivamägi's attention that the Chancellor of Justice is working on the follow-up of the norm, or the Chancellor of Justice may give his opinion on the drafts, but he usually does not. Heljo Pikhof agreed that the Chancellor of Justice would carry out a follow-up to the rule, but added that there is currently a situation in which the law was adopted, so it is entirely appropriate to ask the Chancellor of Justice for the opinion of the annulment of this law. That is why there was a dispute as to whether the Chancellor of Justice's opinion should have been sought and whether this could have been done within the three months that have elapsed since the adoption of the draft procedure. After the dispute ended, Jaanus Karilaid proposed sending a draft to the first reading of 461 with a proposal to close the first reading. The proposal was supported by 5 members of the Committee on Legal Affairs: Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Paur and Märt Sults. There were also 5 members against completing the reading: Hanno Pevkur, Heljo Pikhof, Valdo Randpere, Meelis Mälberg and Hardi Volmer. The Hatter didn't vote. Jaanus Karilaid proposed to send draft 461 to first reading on 10 October 2017. The proposal was supported by the same 5 members who supported Jaanus Kariladi's previous proposal, 5 members were also opposed and Küllik's Hatter did not vote. Raivo Time then proposed that the draft be sent to first reading on 11 October. Five members of the Commission voted in favour of the proposal, five against, and Küllik's Hatter did not vote. Since this proposal was also not supported, Heljo Pikhof proposed that the draft be sent to the first reading a day later, i.e. on 12 October. Even then, the result of the vote was exactly the same. Jaanus Karilaid stated that since the Free Party is not voting and fleeing responsibility, the Commission is stalemate. The Karilaid said that each Member was primarily a statesman and should not look at whether he was in a coalition or in opposition, as a result, should be complied with and followed by a law obliging the Commission to send the draft to plenary within seven working weeks. Heljo Pikhof therefore considered that the chairman of the committee should not evaluate the members of the committee if someone had decided not to vote, he was entitled to do so by law. Külliiki Kübarsepp, in turn, explained that the Free Party Group has decided not to take part in the vote on repealing the Cohabitation Act because the procedure has still been subject to the law of the couple at first reading, which also provides for the annulment of the Cohabitation Act and which also solves the substantive problems, but the draft in question does not solve the problems. He was of the opinion that until the Commission's management did not do its job correctly, the stalemate would continue. Mr Pevkur suggested that, if no proposal was found to have been supported by the committee, it would be the responsibility of the chairman to take time off and find a solution in cooperation with the political groups. Mr Helme said that the Commission did not have the right to break the law, but that it did not send the draft to plenary by the deadline. Heljo Pikhof said that no one wanted to break the law, but he was surprised that such an important amendment was put on the Commission's agenda so late. In his view, this should have been done much earlier, at the latest in the spring, in which case the Chancellor of Justice could also have been invited to the Commission and could have presented his position to the Commission. Mr Pevkur also confirmed that no one wanted to break the law, but the whole Commission has now been presented with the fact that it can only be chosen between the days of one week, and since the President has never put the draft on the Commission's agenda before, there has also been no possibility of having a substantive debate. The members of the Commission agreed that, after this intensive discussion, a break should be taken. After the break, the Commission decided to complete the working week agenda and to continue the discussion on 461 on Thursday 28 September. Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Aeg, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Toomas Paur, Hanno Pevkur, Heljo Pikhof, Meelis Mälberg, Märt Sults and Hardi Volmer were in favour of this decision, and only Valdo Randpere was opposed and therefore decided to continue the discussion in the committee on that date. The second debate took place on the agreed date of 28 September 2017. This committee meeting was no longer a debate, but the agenda led to immediate decision-making. It was decided to put this bill on the plenary agenda by 12 October 2017. There were 7 members of the Riigikogu in favour of this decision: Jaanus Karilaid, Marko Pomerants, Martin Helme, Toomas Paur, Toomas Vitsut, Hardi Volmer and Barbi Pilvre. Külliiki Hatter, Valdo Randpere, Hanno Pevkur and Urve Tiidus did not vote. It was also decided to appoint Liisa Oviir as rapporteur by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U86	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Please, Valdo Randpere on behalf of the Estonian Reform Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U87	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by asking for a few more minutes...
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U88	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U89	... and then I quote the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Paragraph 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia states: "Everything is equal before the law. No one shall be discriminated against on grounds of nationality, race, colour, gender, language, origin, religion, political or other beliefs, property and social status or other circumstances. Instigation of national, racial, religious or political hatred, violence and discrimination is prohibited and punishable by law. It is also prohibited and punishable by law to incite hatred, violence and discrimination between social strata. ' If I think about this provision of the Constitution, I understand that the Republic of Estonia actually has a very good constitution and we have a very good state. I look at this hall and I see no men, no women, no nations, no creeds. I see people, I see Estonians. I look around Estonia and I see people exactly the same way. I can't tell the difference between one nationality and the other, one tendency and the other. Why would I? Three years ago the previous composition of the Riigikogu passed the Cohabitation Act. This is a law that allows people who cannot or do not want to get married in Estonia to enter into a civil contract that regulates their relations both during and after the life together, regulation is also provided for in case one of the partners dies. The law became fully consciously gender neutral and thus gave couples of the same sex the right to legalize their cohabitation. Let's see what the situation is like in Estonia today. I know a lot of people claim that the law of cohabitation was made from the beginning as such a conspiracy in order to give homosexual people some special rights. That's not true. I was one of those who decided on the board of the Reform Party that the party supported the law on gender-neutral partnerships. I made this decision, and I was very much the spokesperson in my personal experience. For ten years in Sweden, I had lived with a woman, not married, but together. It worked perfectly in Sweden. When we came to Estonia, I suddenly discovered that my wife was nothing to me, and my children were like some foreign children, and I should start to identify my fatherhood. Why would I do that? When in a common-law relationship in Estonia, couples living together do not automatically enjoy the rights that might arise in relation to each other. They would have these rights if they lived in Finland or Sweden, for example, in many other countries in the same way. Of course I got married. I'm still with the same woman, but I'm married. Everything's great, but I could have just as easily lived with him. I think I should have the freedom to choose, my life doesn't have to depend very much on the form of partnership I choose. Let's see what's going on in Estonian society. Am I an exception? We see that marriage is becoming less and less popular today. 60% of Estonian children are born out of wedlock. Should the state take a very strict view that, since there is a possibility of marriage, we are somehow forcing people to marry? I can't find it. I think the law of cohabitation itself is quite a good law. I agree that the drawback is that there are no implementing provisions. But the Cohabitation Act is now being made into a pariah and given as an example of a huge legal cull, an example of a law that no one uses. The real reason for this is, above all, that people have been intimidated and labeled by the Cohabitation Act. We heard expressions like the Gay Marriage Act in this hall today. What a heterosexual person dares so much to go to make his life together as he knows he's getting attached to the temple that he's suddenly in a gay marriage. A man scares the shit out of it. Whoever wants to go into a life together so badly, when the notary first asks why you want to make a life together, you better make a will. People aged 20 to 30 do not go around the world thinking all the time about how to make a will, that is not their first thought. But if anything happens to them, their partnership partner is not their heir unless they have signed a contract or are not married. This is the case in Estonia today. Now each of us has a question of whether the legal system should reflect the reality of society or whether it should try to force adult people to live up to standards that people themselves obviously do not consider very up-to-date. In my opinion, it is not up to the state to give moral and ethical assessments of the voluntary and love-based private life of adult people. More interesting is the question of whether we should support the logic that one Riigikogu gives people rights, but the next one can come and cancel these rights, take them back. The rights already granted to people must not be removed on an easy hand. This is both a question of legal certainty and a question of the state's attitude towards its people. We heard here for a long time how EKRE talked about normal again, talking about what the world really should look like. EKRE has taken on the role that they define normality. This normality, unfortunately, has nothing to do with our constitution and this section that I quoted to you here at the beginning. The normalness of EKRE would be as follows: all heterosexual Estonians of white color and Christian religion are equal before the law and are obliged to marry the opposite sex and produce new white heterosexual Christian Estonians. According to the normality of the EKRE, marriage must not be divorced, non-marital relationships are prohibited, contraception is prohibited, this is the normality of the EKRE. Cancelling a life together is only one small part of moving towards its normality. Anyone in favour of the EKRE on other issues should ask themselves whether they have understood what they support and what normality they strive for. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U90	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, Liisa Oviir, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U91	In 2011, Chancellor of Justice Indrek Teder sent a letter of formal notice to the Minister of Justice saying: 'I am of the opinion that permanent cohabitation between same-sex persons falls within the area of protection of fundamental family rights, which is why a situation in which such cohabitation is not legally regulated is incompatible with the Constitution. Therefore, in line with the principle of fundamental rights, it is necessary to establish an appropriate legal framework for regulating such legal relationships. ' It was not, of course, the first and last time that the top specialists in our constitutional law have very clearly communicated to both the executive and the legislative authorities the view that a situation in which a permanent partnership between same-sex persons is legally unregulated is very unconstitutional. For example, the Supreme Court last explained in June this year that according to the Constitution, same-sex people also have the right to the protection of family life. The Supreme Court emphasised that the protection of family life from state interference is not made dependent on the sex or sexual orientation of family members in the text of the Constitution. Life partners of the same sex have the right to state protection and any restriction of rights must not conflict with the prohibition of discrimination. The Cohabitation Act was passed in the Riigikogu on 9 October 2014 and was approved by the President on the same day. The law entered into force on 1 January 2016, but the passions around that law did not subside. Even before the Act entered into force, on 23 November 2015, a draft law on the annulment of the Cohabitation Act was submitted. This bill fell out of the procedure in February 2016. On 22 February 2016, the draft law on the repeal of the Cohabitation Act was reopened and the draft was voted out of the procedure in May 2016. The draft Pairs Act, launched on 24 November 2015, also contains a provision providing for the repeal of the Cohabitation Act. Today we are already discussing the fourth draft, which, at the initiative of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, is once again seeking to repeal the Cohabitation Act. This is done regardless of the fact that population scientist Ene-Margit Tiit said in the newspaper Eesti Päevaleht already in 2014: 'This law does not change the definition of a family, its association with the possible extension of the rights of same-sex sexual relations, marriage or adoption is arbitrary. It does not diminish the rights of any group of people and cannot in any way affect people who intend to marry. " This is done regardless of the fact that there are as many people who are in favour of the Cohabitation Act as there are opposers today. This is done despite the fact that the Supreme Court and the Chancellor of Justice have reminded the Riigikogu of the importance of guaranteeing fundamental rights. This is done regardless of the fact that every time we go through this process again, it hurts the entire community, who are the people of Estonia. The vast majority of the debate still revolves around moral categories, fears, conjecture, and fairy tales. The adoption of the Cohabitation Act was an important stage in the recognition of everyone's equal human rights. The Estonian state showed itself to be a democratic rule of law, taking important steps towards the protection of minority rights and tolerance. The state allowed its citizens to be happy and free as they see fit, without interfering in any way with the happiness and freedom of others. By doing so, the State granted protection to couples of the same sex and to their children whose existence and equal rights had previously been ignored. In no way does cohabitation of same - sexes pose a threat to a traditional family or to a traditional marriage. The Cohabitation Act protects the rights of partners if one of them is to die or become incapacitated or if a partnership is to fail. It shall, where appropriate, assist in resolving the property and legal problems of the parties, as well as other vital issues relating, for example, to succession, welfare or other matters. In fact, the opposition of many people to the law of partnership is understandable. This is due to the long-standing attitudes and practices in society and to the upbringing of people, but unfortunately also to the legal order in force during the past regime. At the same time, public debates on the rights of sexual minorities have led to more and more people finding that gays and lesbians are no threat to tradition; they are no threat to the family. A strong shift in public opinion has taken place relatively quickly, in just a few years. The last public opinion poll carried out by Turku-Study AS revealed that the registration of people of the same sex under the Cohabitation Act already supports as many people as it objects to. There are more people who speak Estonian than opposers, and the younger the people, the greater the proportion of supporters. Of course, in order to make the Cohabitation Act work better in practice, an implementing law should also be adopted which, above all, regulates matters relating to property rights, successions and welfare. However, it is now clear that there is no sufficient support for this in our Parliament, but, fortunately, there is no consensus to repeal the cohabitation law. The Cohabitation Act has been in force since 1 January 2016 and the absence of implementing legislation has not prevented the conclusion of partnership agreements or the adoption of the registered partner's child. Notaries, courts and officials have interpreted and implemented the law on the basis of the Constitution and the Cohabitation Act, because we, the Riigikogu, have failed to do our job. We have not been able to bring legal order into line with the Constitution. The repeal of the Cohabitation Act would, of course, be the competence of the Riigikogu as legislator, but declaring the Cohabitation Act invalid would be a blow to Estonia as a democratic rule of law. This would raise a number of legal issues. For example, if there was legal certainty in one of the elements of the rule of law enshrined in the Constitution, the principle of legitimate expectations would have been clearly violated if we annulled this law. In the context of the Cohabitation Act, legitimate expectations have arisen for all persons who have already entered into a partnership agreement under the Act or have made significant preparations for it. In particular, it concerns same-sex couples who, outside the rules of the Cohabitation Act, have no legal alternative to the equivalent regulation of their partnerships. The rule of law cannot and must not be deprived of these rights simply because of a world view or an election campaign. Human and fundamental rights cannot and must not be a question of worldview. Human rights apply to all, regardless of gender, age, mother tongue, colour, sexual orientation and religion or lack of religion, according to our constitution. The power of state must respect the fundamental rights of people. I would like to conclude my speech by quoting writer Andrus Kiviräha from the Estonian Daily newspaper (also revealed in 2014): 'Married life is obviously a matter between two people. In order to guarantee themselves and their descendants certain legal rights, it is also necessary to give a couple of signatures on official papers, but that is all. There's nothing for third parties to teach or nag. ' One small announcement to Mr Helme, who wishes to join the club of Hungary: Hungary adopted a law similar to that of the Cohabitation Act in a very progressive manner as early as 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U92	The debate on the general principles of the draft law will be continued by Marko Pomerants, representing the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U93	President-in-Office of the Council. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Since I have no intention of having a hate speech or of defining a new normality for you according to my understanding, I will be brief. IRL's position on this bill is as follows: But maybe a little bit of the procedure, that's where I start. Firstly, the plan to process this draft before the municipal elections certainly did not help this debate; it simply did not make sense. But it's happened, and we can't fight it. On behalf of the IRL Group, I call on you to stop reading the first reading of this bill. The reason is that this will help to increase legal certainty, even for couples who have already signed this agreement today. It is easy to vote this draft out of the procedure, then this situation, which has been going on for two years, is going on, there will be no change at all. So there's a chance in seven weeks to talk again about the stories we've been saying for three years or not. Members of the IRL Group have decided to vote in favour of maintaining this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U94	Please, Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U95	Mr President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take this opportunity that our Rules of Procedure will give the group a chance to speak. Every time I have the opportunity to speak here, I say that this is a completely criminal restriction of the rights of members of the Riigikogu, every member of the Riigikogu should be able to give a speech. I must now talk about the motives of our group members in the forthcoming vote. I questioned them all, but it would be better, of course, if everyone could present their own motives. Neither the voting behaviour nor the voting motivations are all the same. There are political groups in the Riigikogu where decision-making is subject to the type of military discipline; we do not have it. The new issue in this area relates to this practice, which was in this Chamber before the recent elections, when several parties tried to turn the Chamber of the Riigikogu into an instrument of election campaign. To a lesser extent, the Social Democrats, who did not know how many important national issues were discussed, which were rather poor, but the newspapers of the next day were just as booked for them. I don't think it was a good method. The second was the Estonian Conservative People's Party, which took advantage of the rule of defence for the opposition in our Rules of Procedure, so that no drafts should be placed under the bed in such a way that it would never reach the hall. There was once such an opportunity in the Riigikogu, but the current rules of procedure state that, at least once, every bill must be allowed to go to the Chamber, so be it. The people of EKRE found it to be an excellent method of promoting the electoral campaign, and they put in place all kinds of drafts, counting on them to reach the large hall just before the elections. The bill we're talking about today went a little wrong with them. These two experiences we need to add to the long list of problems we have under the Rules of Procedure and see how we can avoid such a negative experience in the future. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U96	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U97	And how does the Free Party Group behave? The behaviour of the members of the Free Party Group is different. I questioned everyone. The basic motive, which is why everyone is making the decision that he is making, is deeply offended by the fact that the draft law on couples, initiated by the members of our group, has been put to the table and neither of the coalitions of government has shown any willingness to move forward with it. People's representative Martin Helme told me to come up with a bill some time ago. We came up with the draft, it is entirely there, the content of this draft, as those who have bothered to read it, are similar to the regulations of all other European countries, where there is some analogous method of recognition and registration of same-sex couples, and it is not worse. To say that no one has come up with the bill is wrong. The problem is rather that there is, probably included in the EKRE, such a majority opinion that this thing is not suitable in Estonia. Why this is not appropriate, I find it difficult to guess, but it would probably take a lot of time for this to go through, making no noise and fighting. Perhaps some members of our group will vote against the exclusion of the draft from the procedure. In such a case, their motive is that since there is no better place to offer, the existing situation should be allowed to continue calmly, as long as time improves the situation or there is a change. As far as I am concerned personally, as I have promised in the past, I intend to vote in favour of opening the way for the annulment of the partnership law. Why am I doing this? Last Thursday, I published an article in Postimees, where I expressed my views. There's two of them. The Notaries who enter into these agreements have claimed that without this cohabitation law they would make exactly the same contracts, that is, legally they would be able to do them and probably do them. So this law is not necessary. I am convinced that there should be no meaningless and unnecessary laws in the country; they are like unexploded mines that have been left behind by some war, never know what negative consequences they may have with them. Now the issue of 'implementing acts'. There's an extraordinary amount of confusion here. This mammoth text, written by Social Democrat Kristen Kanarik, is not subject to any criticism at all; no implementing legislation can be spoken about in this case. There might be some applications, but there doesn't have to be. Once upon a time, marriages did not have a national register. It wasn't people who got married, and it wasn't like all the impostors could have made a second or third marriage. The practical legal problem that has arisen in Estonia is that if someone has concluded it abroad in a country where homosexual marriage is allowed, someone wants to bring his partner to Estonia, how the Estonian state will look at it. This is a legally unresolved issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U98	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject draft 461. This leads to a vote, and before that, a call to the hall. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 461 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 47 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, 19 against. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported. Draft 461 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the Riigikogu proceedings.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U99	The second item is the second reading of the draft Act 448 on the ratification of the Eurocontrol Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Raivo Põldaru, member of the Economic Commission, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U100	Good President! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Eurocontrol Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Protocols is on the agenda. Maybe I'll remind you a little bit of the past, since a long time has passed. The Government of the Republic initiated the draft law on the ratification of Eurocontrol's Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Protocols. a on 2 May. Eurocontrol is the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation, which is a central European intergovernmental air traffic management organisation, established in 1960. It aims to enhance transnational cooperation in air traffic management in Europe, including the smoother, safer and more efficient air traffic in European airspace. There are 41 countries in the organisation and Estonia has been a member since 1 January 2015. This draft ratifys the Protocols of 1997 and 2002 to the Eurocontrol Convention on the basis of which the European Union joins Eurocontrol. Both protocols were signed by the Republic of Estonia on 26 November 2014. The European Union shall become a member of Eurocontrol once the Protocol on the accession of the European Community has been ratified, adopted or approved by all the signatory States on the one hand and by the Member States of the European Union on the other. The first reading took place on 13 September. The deadline for submitting amendments was 27 September, no amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for a second reading at its meeting on 9 October, where no amendments to the draft were proposed. The text of the draft act has undergone language editing between two readings and technical changes have been made to the draft act, which in no case alters the content of the draft act. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to send the draft to the Riigikogu for second reading by 17 October and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U101	Any questions for the waitress? There aren't any. Thanks for the presentation. I'm opening negotiations. In the case of second reading, as you know, there is an opportunity to negotiate with all members of the Riigikogu. I don't see that wish. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote. I am voting on the draft Act on the ratification of the Eurocontrol Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 448. Please take a stand and vote. 70 MPs voted in favour, no votes against, no abstentions. The draft law on the ratification of the Eurocontrol Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Protocols initiated by the Government of the Republic has been adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U102	Today's third item is the first reading of draft 476 of the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Conservative People's Party of Estonia to the Government of the Republic of Estonia to suspend the process of ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. Please present a speech chair for Riigikogu member Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On 1 June this year, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party launched a draft decision with a proposal to the Government of the Republic to suspend the process of ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation. I will now speak more precisely about the bill by means of an explanatory statement. On February 2, 1920 a Tartu Peace Treaty was signed between the Republic of Estonia and Soviet Russia, whereby Soviet Russia acknowledged the independence of the Republic of Estonia, 'giving up voluntarily and forever of all sovereign rights that had been in Russia paying for the people and the country of Estonia. " It was a quote from the Tartu Peace Treaty. Unfortunately, in 1940, the Soviet Union occupied and annexed Estonia. On 15 August 1944 75% of the county of ESSR Petseri was assigned to the Russian NFSV, from which the Petseri district of the Leningrad region was formed. On 23 August the same year, an approximate former Pskov province was separated from the Leningrad region, from which the Pskov region was formed. After the restoration of the Republic of Estonia in 1991, Russia has not considered the Tartu Peace Treaty to be binding on itself, which is why these areas, or about 5.2% of Estonia's territory, have remained occupied. On 18 May 2005, the Estonian and Russian Foreign Minister signed a new Estonian and Russian border treaty in Moscow. The Riigikogu ratified the new border treaty on 20 June 2005, adding a preamble to the Ratification Act, which referred to the Tartu Peace Treaty and stated that the border had been partly amended in comparison with Article 122 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. Russia was upset by the reference to the Soviet occupation and the Tartu Peace Treaty, and it withdrew its signature from the Treaty without ratifying it. The second experiment took place on 18 February 2014, when Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Paet and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov signed another Estonian-Russian border agreement in Moscow. The new border agreement has not entered into force and is awaiting ratification by both national parliaments. In the Riigikogu, ratification took place at first reading on 25 November 2015. The Russian Federation has so far taken no steps to ratify this Treaty and has repeatedly accused Estonia of creating an unfriendly atmosphere. Based on the fact that the Russian Federation withdrew its signature from the 2005 border agreement because it did not accept the reference to the Tartu Peace Treaty and the Soviet occupation, the ratification of the current border agreement calls into question the continuity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, in addition to legitimising the continued occupation of the Russian Federation in the areas of the Republic of Estonia and giving up these areas without giving Estonia the slightest compensation for the areas surrendered. The suspension of the ratification of the Treaty would provide an opportunity to negotiate with the Russian Federation on the basis of the continued validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty. In the background, I will talk about the purpose of the bill. Since last November the composition of the government changed, we have a new Prime Minister's Party and the chairman of a government department has also changed, who has repeatedly stressed over the years that the border treaty is not in Estonia's interests, it would be more sensible to turn it back and start a new page, take as much time as it takes, then the Conservative People's Party Group saw that this draft could have wider support in this Chamber, and support could also come from at least one government department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U104	Any questions for the waitress? Let me remind you that during this item on the agenda, each member of the Riigikogu will be able to ask a question to both rapporteurs. No request for questioning. I invite Mikhail Korb, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who will make a presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Bureau of the Riigikogu set the deadline for submitting 476 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 15 June. No amendments were tabled within this deadline. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed this draft at its meeting on 21 September. During the debate on the draft proposal, a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Henn Põljaas, presented the content and purpose of the draft. Following the debate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided not to support this draft. The Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously took the following procedural decisions: to send draft 476 to the plenary session of the Riigikogu for the first reading on Tuesday, 17 October 2017 and to put the draft to the final vote. By decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mikhail Korb, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur for the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U106	Thank you. There are no questions. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. Please, Henn Põllaas on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U107	Ladies and gentlemen, We have no doubt that Estonia was created as the legal successor of the Republic of Estonia, founded in 1918, with all its legal features, including the Estonian border, i.e. the Tartu Peace Treaty border. Unfortunately, we are in a position to withdraw from all these 1991 decisions and principles. I recall that the Supreme Council, the Estonian Committee and also the Riigikogu were based on the need to get the occupied areas back. Negotiations were opened with Russia on both territorial issues and compensation for occupation losses. I remind you that if we want the annexed and occupied areas back, it is not a question of having territorial requirements for Russia, on the contrary, we just want our own back. Russia has violated all international agreements as well as the agreements concluded with the Estonian state. No one should have any doubt as to whether Russia is a friendly or hostile country to Estonia. Over the decades, we have been the target of very aggressive and hostile propaganda attacks, though we are a nasty little Nazi, discriminate against anyone, etc. All these attacks, of course, have no basis whatsoever. But most basic: Russia has refused to recognise the validity of the Tartu Peace Treaty, or our legal continuity. They treat us as a temporary part of the empire, to which they continue to be entitled and which, according to the strategic plans of the Russian Federation, they are planning to reunite with the great empire. In addition to propaganda attacks, there have also been completely direct attacks, we are talking about the initiation of the Bronze Night by Russia, we are talking about the desire to do so-called polls or referendums on whether to separate North-East Estonia from Estonia, etc., we are reminding of the kidnapping of Eston Suur from Estonia, etc. So the desire to surrender its territories free of charge to our hostile country can only be seen as a desire to serve the interests of Russia and no one else. We stand consistently for the territorial integrity of all other countries, Georgia, Ukraine and others, which Russia has brutally and grossly violated, but for some reason Estonia's territorial integrity has not caused the slightest concern to those in power and to the majority of the Riigikogu so far. But it should, because along with these lands, we give away the immense wealth for free. We have 400 million tons of oil shale on the other side of the Narva River, of which we would have enough fuel for three-quarters of a century. We have chalk, pottery and asbestos deposits, forests, farmland, whatever. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U109	Its price is in billions of euros. Furthermore, if we surrender these areas to Russia, the claims of the property owners will be turned against Estonia instead of Russia. Our Chancellor of Justice has also confirmed that we should compensate our own citizens who have lost land and property for more than EUR 100 million. So this gift to a hostile state against us is completely absurd, all this land betrayal is contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution states that the land area and airspace of the Estonian state are an integral and indivisible whole. It comes from the 1937 Constitution, which Jüri Uluots has commented on in such a way that it literally means that the territory of Estonia is indivisible and cannot be handed over to anyone, and if so, it is contrary to the interests of the Estonian state and people and is a hostile act. This draft was under discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and no reasonable arguments were raised against it. It was once said that if we do not conclude a border agreement or abandon our territories, that then we will not get into NATO or the European Union, etc. Today we know it was all a lie. But there was no better argument now than that the country has already taken one course and we cannot give it up. If the ship is banging towards the reefs, how can the captain not turn the wheel and change direction? A normal person would do so, and the Estonian state should do the same. Okay, maybe there were some situations and conditions once, and it was believed that this was a good thing. But it is quite clear today that the conclusion of the border agreement is detrimental to Estonia's interests and we do not need it. We waited 50 years for our country to regain independence, we can wait another 50 years. Maybe someday we can get these areas back. With war and violence, we are not going to take them, of course, it does not come to our minds, but if a stronger de jure set the border on this place, then as a small country, we must use international law as our atomic bomb, as Lennart Meri said, and even though de ive put a stronger line where it is now, on the control line, de ive should remain where it was, even until the end of time, if we do not otherwise get these areas back. But why we should give them up voluntarily and free of charge doesn't have the slightest explanation. Latvia once gave up, and we know very well that its relations with Russia have not changed one gram. Russia treats Latvia exactly as it does us. If you dismantle our Penal Code, you will see that it has been explicitly said that acts directed against the territorial integrity of Estonia are punishable, they are equivalent to treason. So I call on you all to vote in favour of Estonia moving away from this harmful agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U110	Time's up a long time ago. On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Hannes Hanso, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, If you respond very briefly to the previous speaker, of course you cannot agree with him absolutely, but I will talk a little bit longer. The work to ensure that Estonia and Russia have an international treaty agreed border has been going on for more than 20 years. In the 1990s, and also in the early 2000s, Estonian politicians in this very hall and government, as well as officials, made great efforts to move forward positively with the subject of the border agreement and to conclude this agreement. Since 2005, or as of today, for 12 years, almost all Estonian governments and the Riigikogu have been involved in the Estonian-Russian border treaty. The agreement has been signed twice at the level of foreign ministers: for the first time on 18 May 2005 and last time on 18 February 2014. So we can say, and I am saying, that this is a highly thoroughly analysed and debated foreign agreement. I will also reiterate here the false statement that one party, for the sake of day-to-day political gain, is always going to put forward, that is to say that this Treaty would be contrary to the Constitution. The border agreement does not in any way undermine our principle of legal continuity. The legal continuity of the Republic of Estonia and the Tartu Peace Treaty are valid, as they are currently in force, even after the ratification of this Treaty. Just in case, I would remind you that all the Chancellors of Justice have confirmed this in writing. However, the approval of this agreement in Parliament in both countries gives international legal clarity. I believe that this legal clarity should be a common goal for everyone, both in the country and in this Chamber. If you look at the international picture, it is clear that the existence of transnational border agreements is still normal and the absence of a border agreement is a clear exception, if you wish, abnormal. Nobody comes up with the question of why, for example, there are border agreements between Scandinavia, the Nordic countries, or other European countries, or between North American countries. It's so normal. Indeed, it is very difficult for me personally to understand why someone should want to resist it. Estonia's relations with Russia are understandably complex. There is a reason for this: our neighbouring country has behaved very unpredictablely, also aggressively, towards its neighbours. Georgia and Ukraine are recent examples of this. In 2014, the overall security situation in Europe deteriorated, mainly due to the Crimean crisis and Eastern Ukraine issues. Russia was the one who very clearly caused this crisis. But what has been added is, which also very clearly concerns national borders, the migration crisis. I think that, in the new security environment, the need for a firmly established and also legally defined border is all the greater. I'm just going to go over an old truth here, just in case. Of course, agreements based on international law do not in themselves guarantee our security, but their existence will undoubtedly add to security and, as has already been mentioned, clarity. I think that this attempt, which is being tried here, to withdraw unilaterally from the agreement that has already been signed, is extremely irresponsible. However, if the EKRE's proposal to cancel this agreement were to come into effect, the international authority and credibility of Estonia would be significantly shaken. Certainly Estonia would not be protected in any way after this, but quite clearly vice versa. I wish, Mr. Speaker, more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U112	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U113	Therefore, all those political forces who have supported the conclusion of the border agreement and support its ratification and enforcement act in the interests of Estonia's security; they act in the national interest. For my party, social democrats, Estonia's security and securing it is a key issue, both internationally and domestically. We know Russia has the ball. Russia frozen the ratification process more than a year ago. The border agreement can only move forward if the other party is ready, that is obvious. When can this political will come about? It is difficult for me to say this, but Estonia can certainly show reasonable strategic patience here. There is no need to play political games on such a subject. Life goes on without this agreement, we build the border, but once again I say that the enforcement of the agreement and the state border agreed with the international agreement are certainly in our interests, I would say that it is in the interests of both parties and certainly in the interests of Estonia's security. Speaking of interest, it can be said that our interest as a country is undoubtedly not to stop the process of ratifying the border treaty. This is certainly a proposal that undermines our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U114	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Igor Gräzin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U115	Honourable Chairman! Dear listeners, First of all, I am forced to resolve the fact that the two problems that have been repeatedly mentioned here have nothing to do with this. One is Ukraine and the other is Georgia. Estonia's position here coincides with the position of the European Union and nothing special, specifically Estonia's, is here. What's Donbass? There's a regular war going on there: some shoot some, others die, people die. That was the case 3,000 years ago. This is a normal, legally sanctioned war, and there are no legal problems here. Legal problems exist only in one place in Crimea. The illegal annexation of Crimea represents a repetition of the scenario that took place in Estonia in 1940: the army and the people will vote in favour of adding to Russia. So Estonia's specificity is Crimea, and let's not interfere with the other conflicts that exist everywhere else. The problem is whether we can conclude a border agreement with a country that is in a stable state of violation of the law, which never broke the law in the old days, but violates it today and now. I repeat: today and now Russia is breaking the law only and only in one place, it is in Crimea and this action is very dangerous from our point of view. Yesterday it was exactly two years since the Riigikogu delegation came back from the Moscow State Duma on 16 October 2015, where we exchanged views with our colleagues and where I was with Olga Ivanova, Viktoria Ladynskaja and Andres Ammas. The reception was muah! However, there were problems in understanding the matter. We stressed that we want and want to continue parliamentary communication. Governments have the right to pry as much as they want, not all ministers should be equally listened to. The idea of Estonian Foreign Minister Kaljuranna that we want this border agreement at all costs is a serious mistake. Kaljurand did not remain Minister of Foreign Affairs for very long, so we were right. We got really good talk. But what's the problem today? That is when, on 16 October, we sent an invitation to our Russian colleagues, and this invitation is still valid. We have been told twice that the invitation has been accepted. It's been two years. There's basically no response to the invitation. Before that, the Riigikogu delegation visited the duuma in 2013. I would argue that if the Estonian delegation now went back to duuma, it would be humiliating for our country. We don't have to go knocking behind doors. However, as far as this process is concerned, the ratification process must be halted in principle in an instant. By the way, it's... Three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U117	... very dangerous because the first time it went through the Riigikogu with the votes 63 to 13. And there is always danger, but what if the next Marina Kaljurand comes, who will present this bill for second reading and it is again that someone is in the toilet, someone is in the countryside with voters etc., and what if it goes through, which would be an existential threat to Estonia. I would argue that our colleagues here are responsible enough. However, if this threat arises, unlike what happened in the Cohabitation Act, we will still have the opportunity to talk about it seriously and discuss it differently, even though I do not now know exactly which procedural form. Having said this and being the chairman of the Estonian-Russian Friendship Group here in Parliament and in this sense also bearing responsibility for our relations with the State Duma, I say that it is possible to speak with the Russians. It is also possible to speak to the State Duma, but only under such conditions, when our positions are clear, and with the help of the Lord they are also clear about Crimea. We have had successful cooperation projects, including the transfer of the remnants of the fallen Soviet soldiers to the Russian side, which was a very solid and very correct event. There have been more of these things. The communication between the Russian embassy and the group of friends is more or less regular. It's true, it's not working. But one thing that we agreed with our colleagues in the duuma and that I have tried to communicate on a relatively regular basis to the Russian ambassador on behalf of our group of friends is: let the governments pry, let the journalists write, ultimately they get paid, don't listen to governments, don't read the newspapers, let's be people! Any human contact and any channel, just the fact that we're talking, is actually a guarantee that someday we'll start to speak one language and we can start to understand things the same way. My deep conviction is that any connection, any connection, any talk is always-always positive. Look at people who look each other in the eyes and talk. Look how hard it is to say something bad to another person's face. Listen, I'm talking much nicer about the remote than I am from the back. This is actually the case in international relations. In this sense, understanding Hennus and EKRE boys perfectly, in essence they are right, I am not in favour of us taking any steps to become like them in duuma. We are in favour of friendship and, if not friendship, at least friendship, communication and its development. We're not going to the bush, we're standing here. Here's our truth, here's our country, and here's our belief that even with this neighbor, and perhaps with this neighbor, it's gonna be possible to live well someday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U118	Mr Andres Herkel on behalf of the Free Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U119	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will briefly mention why, as a representative of the Free Party, I also voted against this draft in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and why I do not consider it reasonable to address this issue. This recital is somewhat the same as in the previous draft. First of all, a very hot potato was brought before us in the pre-election period, except that, unlike the previous one, the EKRE went a little bit backwards, namely that the days were a little misread, and the treatment of this draft moved to the post-election period. The second problem, of course, is that we still make ourselves relatively stupid, once signing and then taking it back. But this position is nuanced in the sense that I have to point out that in fact the Russian Federation had frozen this process and, in essence, their signature had already been withdrawn, and the re-enactment of this process here has not been very sensible and, as we can see, it is not a success either. Russia is not currently a partner with whom we can actually resolve matters in such a way that the recognition of Tartu's peace is a good thing and the problems of border areas can be resolved, as we hope and want. There is no mutual goodwill in this process. Therefore, it was a little careless to bring this treaty out of the corner that the Russian side itself had placed it in for all international public opinion. As far as we in the Riigikogu are concerned, however, that we are going to force the government to change the decision that we have already made and to withdraw the signature, in which case we would certainly harm ourselves in foreign policy. Let the contract be where it is. Pricking the wasp nest is not a very productive activity. I'm comparing it to something that if you've done too much to eat, it's not helping out on an unhealthy diet, it could hurt even more. That is the reason why the Free Party Group does not consider it reasonable to make such a proposal to the Government of the Republic at the moment, while remaining with the criticism that mistakes have been made in dealing with the border agreement, which could have been free to miss. We can't control this game. This situation, which Russia had created in its activities after the Parliament added to the border treaty years ago, would have been a reasonable status quo, but dealing with such things here in part in the wind of the elections and partly on populist terms is not very fruitful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U120	I understand Mikhail Stalnukhin has a procedural question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U121	Yes! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask whether Mr Gräzin represented here the opinion of the Reform Party Group on this matter. If so, is there any technical way to ask him to clarify this message? In eight minutes, I did not understand what this group's opinion really was.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U122	According to the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, only the representatives of the political groups receive the floor at first reading of such draft decisions. How they have become a representative of the political group, there is no knowledge of this in the run-up to the Riigikogu. I expect everyone who has registered to represent the group's position. That's all I have to ask. Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U123	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! So I would point out that it was Igor Gräzin's speech. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, he spoke because the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure so provide, but the position of the Reform Party Group was not quite the end. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U124	It's great now! Next time Gräzin asks for the floor at first reading, I will ask the leaders of the group for confirmation. For everyone else, this is based on trust. You can't do that! Honourable Riigikogu, there are no more requests for speech. No amendments to draft 476 were tabled. We are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, since the draft decision requires a majority of the members of the Riigikogu to be adopted, we will carry out a verification of the presence. 75 members of the Riigikogu are present. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the Riigikogu decision submitted by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia 'Proposaling the Government of the Republic to suspend the process of ratification of the border agreement between the Republic of Estonia and the Russian Federation' draft 476. Please take a stand and vote. Nine members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 63 against. The decision was not taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U125	The next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on fishing initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Environment Committee waitress Andres Metsoja, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U126	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, for the second time, we are reading this bill in this Chamber, today is the second reading. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 11 September and the first reading took place on 20 September. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 10 a.m. on 22 September. The members of the Riigikogu, political groups and other committees did not propose amendments to the draft, but the Committee on the Environment tabled six amendments. All the members of the Commission, apart from Kalle Palling and Elle Kaur, Head of Advisor-Secretariat, and Vivi Older, were present at this meeting. At the same time, Chancellor Illar Lemetti of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Ain, Head of the Fisheries Management Department, and Geir Veski, Adviser to the Finnish and Legal Department, and Liivika Näks, Adviser to the Fish Stocks Department of the Ministry of the Environment, were invited. It should be said that the amendments are all of a technical nature, i.e. they specify the changes and bring them into better alignment with the whole. At the meeting of the Commission, fishing capacity and fishing opportunities were, in essence, discussed. These are two important terms that were taken over at the time of accession to the European Union or, in fact, before that. In Europe, fishing opportunities are regulated each year by the quota regulation, they were held here, I understand, recently again, in discussions, in other words, as a total of fixed main engine capacity (kilovatis) and full capacity (GT). This was also an important issue, as the fishing fleet has a cap in place at national level and is divided between coastal fishing, Baltic trawling and long-range fishing. This was also the first meeting in the Committee on the Environment, where we addressed this issue very substantially. Already in the pre-European period, i.e. before we joined the European Union, the law introduced a 36-month period during which a person has the right to include a fishing vessel with the same fishing capacity after the vessel has been removed from the register. That is what has been a very substantive discussion about whether this 36 months is sufficient or whether it should be extended. Together, it was also understood, on the basis of the Ministry's proposal, that this 36 months is still sufficient, but additional clauses should be added to ensure that new long-range fishermen can still enter the market so that they can develop the capacity to go to certain fishing grounds. These substantive proposals have now been included in the draft law. There was also an interest in why these capacities were also important for coastal fishing. In coastal fishing, as you all know, it is actually a matter of transporting fish in particular, because somehow this fish must be brought to the land from the sea, but trawling is not really happening, in this quantity of fish and fishing capacity, the power of the machine does not really have much meaning. We have received a very clear response from Ain Finland that this regulation also stems from the requirements of the European Union and, unfortunately, we do not have much to do against it. Valeri Korb investigated the decline of the fishing fleet, and the fishing fleet does not disappear from Estonia at all, because the decline has taken place here. Ain Finland replied that fishing opportunities would be limited by quotas that have been reduced by a few tens of thousands over the years, so the fleet has also decreased five times, but that this capacity would be able to catch the entire quota volume, thus saving expenditure and making the whole sector more economically viable. Member of the good committee Meelis Mälberg was interested in how many Estonians can fly the flag of another country. Ain Finland stated that it is estimated that, for example, half of the Finnish national quota is caught by Estonians and that such companies have also emerged in Lithuania. You can see the amendments. Like I said, they're normalistic. The first amendment concerns a technical requirement. This complements § 35 new paragraph 4 and in this context § 42 (4) of the Fisheries Act is repealed. The amendment concerns the concept of fishing capacity, which is already included in the draft and needs to be defined. The Committee on the Environment has taken full account of this. The second amendment has also been fully taken into account. It amends the wording of Article 36, point 10, as one reference is replaced by another according to the draft and this paragraph has to be reworded. Amendment 3 has also been fully taken into account. This proposal deletes Paragraph 1 (24) of the draft and supplements paragraph 25, according to which the limitation applies not only to the allocation of historical fishing opportunities but also to other fishing opportunities. Amendment 4 has also been fully taken into account. It changes the location of the rule in the law. Amendment 5 has also been fully taken into account. It deletes the third sentence of § 901 (4) and (5) supplementing the Fisheries Act in order to avoid repetition, as the same sentence is also in paragraph 6. Amendment 6 concerns § 2 Amendment to the Fisheries Act and the Environmental Charges Act. This proposal is also technical and fully taken into account. The committee decided to propose that 491 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the second reading by 17 October. When the second reading of the draft is closed, we have a proposal to send the draft for the third reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 24 October and to put the draft to the final vote. These were consensual decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U127	Questions for the waitress. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U128	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Could you explain a little more about the nature of this database of scientific and recreational fisheries? Is there any specific and qualified requirements? What does the word'science' stand out for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U129	Thank you. We did not focus on this in the Commission. But as I read and understood in the bill in consultation, there is, in fact, a plan to improve and synchronise national databases across the country. It is one of the concrete actions to provide a legal basis for scientific action. In order to be able to collect, store and use this data for certain activities, it must all be laid down and so it has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U130	Thank you, Andres Metsoja! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. Six amendments to the draft 491 have been tabled and are all from the Committee on the Environment. Let us examine the amendments: the first, the second, the third, the fourth, the fifth and the sixth. The second reading of Bill 491 is complete. Honourable Riigikogu! Before we go to the next item, we have a procedural obligation. In particular, the Centre Party Group has proposed to extend today's sitting until the debate on the agenda items is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. That is what we need to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Centre Party Group to extend the working time of today's sitting until the debate on the agenda items is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 2 against, with no abstentions. Working hours have been extended until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U131	Next on our agenda is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act, the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act 492 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, is the rapporteur for the initiative. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U132	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The purpose of this bill is to improve consumer protection by aligning the regulation of package travel with the changes that have taken place in the travel services market over recent decades. Above all, it means that people are planning their trips and making travel choices more and more online. This draft increases passengers' rights when concluding travel services contracts, ensures better protection of passengers in situations where the travel service included in the package or linked travel arrangements is not provided due to the insolvency of the undertaking, reduces the requirements for the activity of the travel agent and makes it more flexible the requirements of the undertaking, obliges the undertaking to provide more information about the contract, makes it more favourable for the traveller to cancel the contract in the event of unavoidable and exceptional circumstances, and sets a limit on the increase of the travel charge. The draft takes over the European Union Package Travel and Related Travel Arrangements Directive, which is due to be transposed by the end of this year. The Act shall enter into force on 1 July 2018, upon its adoption. There are just under 300 tour operators in Estonia. They may be added as a result of the draft. The draft could have a major impact on 500 companies, including not only tour operators but also other operators, such as related travel arrangements service providers. In drawing up the draft, we have thoroughly consulted economic operators, mostly the Association of Tourism Companies, and we have tried to take into account all their proposals, which are not contrary to the directive. What's gonna change? Compared to today, the new directive has extended the concept of package travel, which also takes into account the conclusion of travel services contracts on the Internet, as I said. While the package to date was mainly a comprehensive solution for a journey prepared by the travel agent himself and offered at a uniform price, such as a journey to Egypt as a ready-to-be solution, and this concept did not include a journey assembled at the request of the passenger, it will change in the future. In the future, it will also be a package if a person has designed his or her holiday as he or she wishes, including by choosing different travel services from one point of sale on the Internet during the same booking, or, for example, he or she has been offered a hotel accommodation or a cart at the same time in the travel agency and has paid for these services together. The package travel is distinguished from individual travel services, such as the purchase of a flight ticket only, by the fact that the package guarantees full protection for the traveller, as the tour operator assumes responsibility for the entire contract and all the services it contains. The organiser of the package must also have a guarantee to cover his or her obligations, enabling him or her to be returned to his or her country in the event of his or her insolvency and the travel fee paid to be refunded. In this context, it is important to note that protection is also provided for some business trips if there is no separate contract with the tour operator to organise them. As a whole, the rights of passengers related to related travel arrangements are added to the law. In that case, although each individual travel service provider is responsible for its own contract, an undertaking providing related travel arrangements, such as an airline which also sells accommodation or car rentals, must have a guarantee in case of failure to provide the travel service due to its insolvency. Although the draft inevitably increases some tour operators' obligations, the requirements for the travel agent will be significantly reduced. The travel agent will no longer be required to hold a guarantee in the future and will not be required to register in the register of economic activities. There will also be greater flexibility in the requirements related to the operation of the passenger undertaking: fewer activities, less reporting and more flexibility in the regulation of the guarantee. Tour operators and travel agents affected by the draft are the most affected, but this may also affect other tourist operators, such as in the area of accommodation, car rental or travel, where they offer sets of travel services. The draft requires more information to be provided to the passenger prior to the conclusion of the contract. The new requirement is to provide the traveller with a standard information sheet setting out information on the main rights of the traveller, as well as which undertaking is responsible for travel services and which institution provides protection against insolvency. The cancellation of the contract will become more favourable to the passenger in unavoidable and exceptional circumstances, for example when a natural disaster has occurred at the destination of the journey. If the tour operator wishes to retain the right to increase the travel charge by contract, for example the price of passengers may result from a change in the price of fuel, it must also leave the contract with the condition of an equivalent reduction of the travel charge. A limit (at least 8%) on the increase in travel charges will also be set, from which the traveller will be entitled to withdraw from the travel contract. There is no such restriction in the current law and it is stated that the right of withdrawal will arise if the travel charge increases significantly. Now it's going to be specified. Thank you. That was a brief summary of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U133	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Thank you, Minister Urve Palo! There are no questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U134	Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U135	The Commission's rapporteur is Toomas Kivimägi, Vice-Chairman of the Economic Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U136	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the pending draft at the meeting of the Commission on 9 October 2017. In addition to the members of the Commission and the staff of the secretariat, Urve Palo, Minister of Enterprise and Information Technology, and Kati Kikas, Head Specialist of the Department of Trade and Services, Department of the Internal Market, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, also attended the meeting of the Commission. Mr Palo has now explained everything very thoroughly, I am not going to repeat what he said at his committee meeting. I will say that Kati Kikas added that regulation needs to be updated due to the growth in online sales and the emergence of new business models to ensure adequate protection for consumers. The characteristics of package travel are long-term consumer advance payments for services. The consumer must therefore be assured that the advance will be refunded if the company becomes bankrupt. I would simply add that this draft really only concerns the insolvency of the company and what guarantees and guarantees are in this case. It is also important that the company has the means to return the traveller to his place of departure or to another place agreed upon. Sven Sester asked what the travel service provider had to do further due to the draft. Kati Kikas replied that the guarantee obligation arises from a service provider who, instead of a pre-defined package, allows a customer to combine travel services in an office or online. A travel service becomes a package if there are at least two services inside. Kati Kikas replied to the question of how much this burden is for the company in terms of the guarantee, that the company could adjust the amount of the security requirement, as this depends on the amount of advance payments made for the journeys. For example, if the company requires only an advance booking fee and the trip is paid in full a few weeks before the trip, the volume of obligations will not increase very much. Toomas Kivimägi asked what the bank guarantee rate was. Kati Kikas said that it is not regulated by the State, it is determined by a contract between the tour operator and the bank, and this depends on the credit rating of the company that wants the guarantees. The current minimum guarantee rates may be too high for up to 6% of companies. Toomas Kivimägi asked what would happen to a company that did not have enough resources to obtain a guarantee. Kati Kikas explained that if there is no guarantee, tour operators should not operate, but individual travel services could be sold. Sven Sester asked what exactly would change the legal definition of the package. Kati Kikas replied that the current regulation of the European Union does not unambiguously define this type of service if the traveller is able to put the various travel services in a shopping cart on the Internet and pay for them in one place. In some countries it is considered a package tour, in others it is not. In Estonia, this has rather not been considered a package trip, but if the same activity had taken place in the office, it would have been regarded as such. According to the new regulation, this is definitely a package tour. Erki Savisaar asked how many of the requirements to be imposed are due to European Union law and what requirements additional to the draft is being introduced in Estonia. Kati Kikas explained that the Directive provides an opportunity to introduce additional measures, but this draft takes over only the minimum requirements of the Directive. Toomas Kivimägi asked whether more insurance cover would be guaranteed for package travel than for individual services. Kati Kikas explained that the insurance cover for the package is stronger because the law lists insurance cases, the existence of which is also assessed by the Consumer Protection Board. For a person, this process is free and fast, and the burden of proof is limited to the presentation of cost records. Sven Sester asked if interest groups were met when the draft was drawn up. The Minister also replied that there were quite a number of different opinions on this draft. On the same day that we discussed this draft at the meeting of the Economic Commission, that is, on 9 October, four or five additional proposals were received from the Estonian Tourist Association, compared to what is being discussed in the draft. At the meeting of the Commission, we took the view that we are sending these proposals from the Estonian Tourism Association to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to shape the position and, between the first and second reading, the Commission can decide whether and in which cases the amendments will be tabled. At the meeting of the Commission, it was decided to send the draft to the plenary by 17 October (this was a consensual decision), to propose that the first reading be closed (also consensual) and to propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days, i.e. 12 noon on 31 October 2017 (the decision was also consensual). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U137	No questions for the waitress. Thank you, Toomas Kivimägi! I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of bill 492 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 12 noon on 31 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U138	But now it is up to the President of the Republic to renegotiate the Act on the Charging Tax on Sweet Drinks (457 UA). The first rapporteur is Marko Pomerants, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Please, Marko Pomerance!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U139	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Happy other members of the Riigikogu! As we all recall, this spring the Riigikogu passed the Act on the tax on sweetened beverages and sent it to the President for declaration, but on 3 July 2017, the President of the Republic decided not to declare the Act on the tax on sweetened beverages, stating that he considers that the second alternative to Article 10 (8) of that Act, which exempts the sweetened drink from the tax on the sweetened drink, which is delivered on board the water or aircraft engaged in international voyages with a view to selling it from the point of sale on board, is contrary to the principle of equal treatment and therefore to § 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. The President also pointed out that Paragraph 5 (4) of the Drinking Drink Tax Act, which imposes an obligation on the seller to verify whether the supplier has declared a sweet drink tax, is unclear regulation, which may not be contrary to the Constitution, but it certainly needs legal clarity. This is how he asks us to bring § 10 (8) of the Act into line with the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and to specify the regulation of § 5 (4) of the Act on the tax on sweetened beverages. The Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu discussed this issue on 18 September 2017. Let me be clear, this debate has already taken place in a situation where a political decision not to introduce a sweetened beverage tax from the new year had been made, but our home and operating procedures provide that such open legal issues must nevertheless be completed. We have also invited Paloma Krõõt Tupay, Legal Adviser to the President of the Republic to this committee meeting, who will give legal advice to our President, as well as Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy at the Ministry of Finance. The question in this debate was whether comparables are treated differently or equally treated differently. The summary of the debate is that it is not possible to classify in the same group companies on land, in a simple way saying shops from which a sweetened drink can be bought, and ships and aircraft from which a drink can also be bought. This is because, in one case, it is a specific point of sale, where the purpose is to sell those goods, and in the other case it is ancillary to air and ship travel. If we are looking at equal treatment or tax differentiation in terms of price policy, this is certainly not the case, because even without any sweet tax, prices on land and at sea are very different. The style example is a half-litre traditional lemonade, which costs 69 cents in the Jagumäe Food Center in Võru, and 1 euro 50 cents in the Tallink ship. The president also pointed out that tobacco and alcohol products, for example, were treated differently. There is a situation where on-site consumption on aircraft and ships is not subject to excise duty, but co-sales are still taxed, but in the case of a sweetened beverage tax, our behaviour is different. Here's the explanation. When we are talking about excise goods, it must be taken into account that there is a common European Union harmonised tax policy. When we are talking about the tax on sweetened beverages, it is a national regulation that is not harmonised with other countries, every country has the freedom to decide for itself here. To sum up, on this first point, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not find it in this violation of the Constitution. However, the unanimous view was that, as far as § 5 (4) is concerned, this legal clarity should be established here. Why has the law become the law of the law regarding the obligation imposed on the shopkeeper when he has brought the drink into the country himself? To avoid tax fraud, that's why. He may have received it at a favourable price from somewhere, and there is a doubt that the beverage has not actually been taxed on the sweetened beverage. We found that legal clarity must be created and the law must be amended. Here the Ministry of Finance has offered clearer wording. Now I come to the decisions. Firstly, we decided not to support the adoption of the law on the tax on sweetened beverages in the unaltered state. Here we had a consensus in the Commission, and it was not because this law was unconstitutional, but because of other issues of legal clarity. I was appointed rapporteur, and it was also proposed that the debate on this draft be conducted here. For the sake of truth, I mention the comment made by Mr Aasa that he is not convinced that the law on the tax on sweetened beverages is constitutional, but he was convinced that he could not support the adoption of the law on the tax on sweetened beverages in its unaltered form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U140	Questions for the rapporteur of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Honourable Riigikogu, I would like to point out that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to ask both rapporteurs a question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U141	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Commission waitress. You said that the President's arguments were not the basis for your decision or that there were other legal clarity issues. What are these other legal clarity problems? As far as I know, the application for authorisation to grant State aid from the European Commission has been blocked or even proved impossible. Is this another issue of legal clarity and what are the other problems of legal clarity?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U142	Yes, perhaps my colleague, Mikhail Stalnukhin, will also be talking to Europe. I was talking about Section 5 (4) of the Drinking Drink Tax Act, which imposes on the seller the obligation to verify whether the supplier has declared the Drinking Drink Tax. The President felt that this was contrary to the Constitution. On the basis of this whole debate, he concluded that it is necessary to rewrite more clearly that there is no contradiction here. Marek Uusküla, Head of the Customs and Excise Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, who was present at the meeting of the Commission, also stated that the preparation of this draft law was at a high speed, the desire was to eliminate one possible place of falsehood, but a better wording would have required more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U143	No further questions. Thank you, Marko Pomerants! The rapporteur for the Monetary Commission is Mikhail Stalnukhin, Chairman of the Monetary Commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U144	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Finance discussed this issue at its two meetings on 11 and 25 September. On the first occasion Paloma Krõõt Tupay, Legal Adviser to the President of the Republic, was present on the committee, and Chancellor Dmitri Egorov was present at the Ministry of Finance. At first, the chairman of the committee introduced the procedure; there are certain rules. Ms Tupay then introduced the President of the Republic's decision No 153 of 3 July. We asked the representative of the Ministry of Finance for an opinion on these points. If there was a clear answer to the second complaint that yes, as regards the declaration of the tax on sweetened beverages, allows a number of interpretations and it is necessary to clarify the wording of Paragraph 5 (4), the first point concerning, say, the Tallink problem, we did not hear such consent. We in the Commission decided unanimously (all the members of the Commission were present) that we would continue to deal with this. We asked the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give our opinion and we addressed the Ministry of Finance with a proposal for an analysis of the situation (which concerned the President's decision). On 25 September, another Commission meeting was held on this issue. The question of the application for State aid was raised there. The representative of the Ministry of Finance said that, formally, such a request for submission to the Euro Committee requires, first and foremost, the adoption of the legislation, because such a request cannot be made on the basis of an act which is not in force, which has not been announced. We discussed a letter from the Ministry of Finance that is available to everyone. It specified the same argument that Chancellor Egorov explained to us on 11 September. The Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also briefly discussed this at the moment. With your permission, I'm not going to retell these things. The Commission, once again in its entirety, adopted a consensual decision to propose to the Riigikogu Board that this debate be brought back to the Chamber today, 17 October. A consensus was also adopted not to support the adoption of the Act on the Drinking Drink Tax as unchanged. The Commission appointed the chairman of the committee as rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U145	Questions for the waitress. George Jaanson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! If now this law on the tax on sweetened beverages comes to the debate and there is a substantive debate going on, will the Committee on Monetary Affairs also have a plan to involve the Committee on Social Affairs and ask for its opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U147	Thank you for your question. If anyone offers it, we will certainly be discussing it in the Commission. So far, no such proposal has come.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U148	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U149	Honourable Chairman! Honourable Commission waitress. First of all, I believe that the procedure for this draft should be stopped at all, that it has run into a deadlock and that it should be excluded from the procedure at all. But if the coalition still wants to process it, then I have this question. You said that this application for state aid could not be dealt with until the law was passed, but the government certainly has more information about this procedure for applying for State aid. Minister Ossinovski was in the summer when the president's decision came, albeit very optimistic, that in the autumn, when this bill arrived in the hall, this request for State aid would probably exist. I am asking whether an application for State aid has been formally submitted by today and what has been the return from the European Commission so far. The representative of the Ministry of Finance told us that they are "unofficially communicating with the Commission."
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U150	Thank you. Mr President, my colleague, when I looked at you, I remembered that you asked whether the sweet drink tax was reflected in the 2019 budget. I forgot to say that. The answer is that this is partly reflected, but some changes may arise during the debate on the budgetary strategy in spring. If I come to your question, I can say that I do not think that the law has broken down, he will become clearer. On a specific case, I say it's a good thing the President came up with such a decision. This will prolong the period during which producers can change the production process. We look at similar drinks with similar labels (looking far away) for us and Finland. It turns out that sometimes the difference in sugar content is double. This can be done, this law needs to go on. I cannot comment on the words of Minister Ossinovski; I have read nothing about it or received any message from him. I think that if we fix § 10 (8) and § 5 (4) while the formula has already been sent to us from the Ministry of Finance, it is much clearer and more understandable than what has been adopted in the law, then we will get a rather good and beautiful law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U151	No further questions. Thank you, Mikhail Stalnukhin! I'm opening negotiations. Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by stating that the Social Democratic Party Group does not consider the law on the sweetened beverage tax to be unconstitutional and this time does not agree with the President's arguments. The President, of course, challenged this provision of the Act, which exempts international shipping and airlines from the sweet tax. The President justified his decision on the need to ensure the principle of equal treatment and the principle of legal certainty and clarity. At the same time, there are already several laws in force in the Republic of Estonia that tax ship and airline companies on somewhat different bases than on land-based companies. The Riigikogu has also been based on the fact that business on ships and aircraft cannot actually be equated to business on land; there are special rules. The liver of the dessert is the liver, not the excise. Since the tax on sweetened beverages does not have to follow the logic of excise duty, there is a right to introduce a tax exemption for sweetened beverages at points of sale on board water and aircraft. For example, if alcohol and tobacco products are subject to similar rules in the European Union, then the taxation of sweetened beverages is a matter for each Member State to regulate itself and there are no common rules here. However, the Social Democrats agree to the further processing of the law. We also have time for this, because the state budget for 2018 does not take account of this law. For reasons of legal clarity, it makes sense to renegotiate some issues and to formulate certain provisions in greater detail. We are prepared to improve the law a little, but not make fundamental changes there. I would like to thank the President for supporting the central objective of the law, its substantive idea of reducing the consumption of sugar among children and adolescents. The law is a concrete step towards the health of the Estonian people, especially the young generation, after its entry into force. The obesity of children and young people is a major problem in Estonia and it is getting worse. The increase in obesity is one of the fastest among the countries of the European Union, one of the causes of which is excessive sugar consumption. Foods and beverages are the central source of excess calories and are rich in sugar. Children's obesity and related health problems have been dealt with in Estonia for a long time, but there are no results. The so - called soda tax offers a more effective solution by directing people towards healthier behavior. As a result of price increases, the consumption of beverages taxed in different countries has decreased by 20-50%. This tax motivates producers to use less sugar in drinks and directs consumers to give preference to drinks with lower sugar content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U153	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U154	Honourable Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, The situation is a little schizophrenic. We don't know how to act, and I certainly don't vote at all. We have a number of problems with this bill. First of all, it is a bit startling the motive that the President rejected the bill because of this sugar monstrum or maybe you should say'sweet amonstrum'? After all, there is an analogue of indirect taxes, and these are generally treated differently in ships, aircraft and customs mode. Well, that shouldn't be the reason to reject this shit now. We did not actually get an explanation in the Commission either. But because this shit is, that's what we're thinking. We would like to get rid of this bill, it is discriminatory and misleading. Excise duties are not bad in themselves, but if we are not talking directly about poison, such as tobacco or alcohol, then we should not talk about specific goods, but we should talk about substances and their analogues. There are no doubt a number of problems with sugar, including sugar drinks, but the real problem is, however, nutrition as a whole. A serious nutritionist doesn't come to talk about lemonade killing anyone. Those he kills must be dealt with in the form of an explanation. In general, the amount of lemonade in a person's energy balance is 1.5%, and in some fragments of people it is larger. But this is just plain stupid, and it has to be dealt with. At present, it is not the diet as a whole, but it is established itself, it is shown to be a master, a curfew and an organiser. But in fact, most people don't have this whole picture, they don't know what false teachings are and what the real dietary recommendation is. We do not want such discriminatory taxation, especially in a situation where, as far as we know, the government has still not even applied for State aid, so that yogurt and juice can escape the tax, but yet it is imposing it on the tax. He says that, in any case, lemonade must be subject to heavy taxation, whether or not there is a charge on yogurt and juice. Under these circumstances, we certainly do not support this under any circumstances. It would be very interesting to know more about these signals. Before the elections, the Minister of Finance of the IRL and his chairman promised that no, this tax would not come. But they're actually going to keep going, actually, they're going to keep working on it here. How about that? Maybe the representative of the IRL will come to the remote and tell us whether or not the liver will come. We vote against. But if the coalition speaks two things at once before the election, then we are required. Think, though, whether there is any way to enlighten the Estonian people more systematically, rather than squealing at them systematically, giving them orders and interfering with their choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U155	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U156	Honourable President! Respectable members of the Riigikogu! The faction of the Free Party has never supported the draft law on the tax on sweetened beverages. A good colleague, Monika Haukanõm, has repeatedly put forward arguments from this board for why we have not done so, and these arguments have not been answered in the slightest by the initiators of the draft. In our opinion, it would be reasonable, practical and right for the initiators to abandon this idea at all and forget that idea. The aim of this draft is to make people's health behaviour and make someone healthier. These objectives are undoubtedly not met by this draft. The excess is a big problem, which I can assure you, friends, very well, but the bill for a sweetened beverage tax doesn't solve any of these problems. I fully agree with the previous speaker that the government coalition can agree on the matter, not give us conflicting and sometimes, I dare say, hypocritical signals in this Chamber. It's not correct. The Free Party does not support the adoption of the Act on the Tax on Sweet Drinks. If today we are unable to vote it out procedurally, we will do so in the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-10-17_U157	There are no more requests for the floor, we are going to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu! Since today, not just the debate on this item, has shown that you have not had enough time or will to examine the articles of the House and Rules of Procedure Act, I promise you one explanation so that everyone will understand what we are voting for. This draft could be voted out of the procedure when it was at first reading. The next point is that we can vote on the adoption of the law in its unchanged form. If we vote in favour of it, the law has been adopted unchanged and the President has the right either to declare it or to refer it to the Supreme Court. If we vote against, the draft will remain in the process. Thank you for your attention. I felt I had to say this because it is difficult to know the sections of the Rules of Procedure Act. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the re-adoption of the Act on Sweet Drink Tax sent back by the President of the Republic to the Riigikogu without amendment. Please take a stand and vote. No one was in favour of adopting the law unchanged, 62 members of the Riigikogu opposed, with one abstention. The law was not adopted unchanged. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the Sweet Drink Tax Act at 5.15 p.m. on 31 October. I'll see you tomorrow. Thank you! Closure of the sitting at 1.25 p.m.
