ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable guests! Good morning. We will begin the second Tuesday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. That's not what you want. In that case, please, we'll do a presence check! 80 parliamentarians will take part in the meeting, no 21.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U2	Today's first item is the Prime Minister's review of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Allow me to present the procedure for dealing with this item. First the Prime Minister's presentation is up to 30 minutes and then the questions. Any member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to the rapporteur. Since then, there are negotiations in which only the representatives of the political groups can speak. I now request Prime Minister Jüri Ratas to present the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U3	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Good guests and other observers on today's agenda! Let me give you an overview of the state of research and development and government policy in this area. Honourable Riigikogu! Achieving better cooperation between universities and other research institutions and businesses has been a key issue in the field of research and development in Estonia over the years. Co-operation between the various authorities and seeing a broad, broad picture will play an important role in this. This is also a priority area for the government coalition in office, where progress must be made. The research intensity of the business sector is a prerequisite for Estonia's economic development. What does that mean? This means more sophisticated products and services that help to compete better on the international market and create greater added value and jobs. The share of research and development carried out on behalf of the private sector or in cooperation with the private sector must certainly increase and this has also been, I dare say, the priority of all governments and the Riigikogu. One possibility is to increase public funding for R &amp; D. The basis for effective research cooperation is the stability of funding, but it is not less important that the objectives are clearly agreed. The foundation of applied research and innovation is science of excellence. In Estonia, high-quality, world-class science is made. The number of our people's scientific articles in top magazines has increased. According to Web of Science, the world's most influential science quote index, Estonian scientists published some 2700 articles in 2015, namely 2698. I certainly recognise Estonian science and the fact that according to OECD data, 10% of the world's most cited articles will reach 13.5% of the articles of Estonian scientists. The world average is about 10%. The number and quality of publications are important. These are very important, but not the only indicators to measure the contribution of our scientists. From the point of view of the country's development, it is important that scientific achievements contribute to the resolution of society's problems and that researchers present their views to the wider public. When making major decisions that are important to the state, whether it is construction projects such as the construction of Rail Baltic, solving integration problems or population health policies, the views of scientists in these areas should be more pronounced. Only in this way can we shape sensible decisions based on real research and facts. We'll live along if our athletes do well on the world stage when they get to the best. We know our top athletes by name very well, the media will quickly make them known. Once again, however, we know less about the best Estonian scientists in the world. Science must certainly be brought much closer to people and society. This is a challenge for scientists, honourable Riigikogu, government and politicians in general, journalists and the media in general, but also for every person in Estonia. There has been a rapid positive development in Estonian science over the last ten years. One reason for success is the close cooperation between Estonian researchers and the best research teams in the world. We have arrived, we can safely say, among the leading scientific worlds. At the end of last year, the College of Editors of the World's leading scientific journal Science, with the participation of scientists from the Estonian Biocentre, selected the study of Nature as one of the top ten research breakthroughs of 2016. The authors of this influential article included Estonian scientists Lauri Saag, Mari Järve and Monika Karmin, along with scientists from other universities such as Harvard and Cambridge. Honourable Riigikogu! The bulk of the research budget is made up of research grants and basic funding for research institutions. The first is competitive, while the second is non-competitive financing granted to R &amp; D institutions from the state budget to meet these objectives. In this way, we will ensure the necessary continuity and flexibility of research. We have decided to increase the share of basic research funding to 50%. Currently, the ratio between basic and project-based funding is approximately 30% and 70%. In addition, the government association has decided to allocate an additional EUR 9 million to doctoral students' scholarships from 2018. Of course, its targeted use is far more important than the distribution of money. Every extraent, each additional euro must support a new quality in Estonian science and increase the socio-economic impact of research and development. The country has made and will make major investments in science, particularly with the support of the European Union's Structural Funds. For example, between 2008 and 2015, the state invested a total of EUR 46.5 million in centres of excellence in research. These included, for example, the Centre of Excellence in Chemical Biology and the Centre of Excellence in Cultural Theory. Between 2016 and 2022, the state supports centres of excellence in science with EUR 41.2 million. In 2016, the previous government approved ASTRA's investment plan, according to which seven research and higher education infrastructure projects will be funded in the amount of 54 million euros, including the construction of an IT centre at the University of Tartu and a new study building at the Estonian Academy of Arts. Scientists have made good choices, finding important research issues, and Estonia has developed a strong scientific culture. For example, academician Richard Villems has created a School of Molecular Biology and made a major contribution to research in this field, belonging, boldly speaking, to 1% of the most quoted scientists in the world. The key issue is to turn this scientific culture into a development of society, for the well-being of all of us. The decline in R &amp; D investment, which has characterised the last few years, has slowed down. R &amp; D expenditure accounted for 1.5% of GDP in 2015. Let it be made clear that, at the end of this year, in November, the data relating to the previous year will be available for 2016. It was 1.45% in 2014. In absolute terms, R &amp; D expenditure increased to nearly EUR 303 million in 2015. In 2014, the total volume was EUR 287 million. However, the structure of expenditure and its relevance to the country's development needs are certainly more important than the amounts of money. The growth in expenditure in 2015 was mainly due to the business sector, whose investments increased by 15 million euros to 140 million euros. Expenditure on applied research increased by 2 million euros and amounted to 77 million euros in 2015. The growth in the volume of R &amp; D commissioned by companies is certainly positive, but it must become more broad-based and involve more companies, more sectors of the economy. Apart from, for example, the oil industry and the production of electrical equipment, other sectors of the economy could also contribute to innovation. Estonia's goal is to achieve a level of spending on R &amp; D by 2020, which represents 3% of GDP. Yes, we are far from that goal now, if not very far away. Already ten years ago, the "Knowledge-based Estonian II" strategy aimed to bring Estonia's total R &amp; D expenditure to 3% of GDP by 2014. The vision is that two thirds of R &amp; D expenditure would be made by the private sector and that the public contribution would be one third. Investment in R &amp; D is certainly not an excessive luxury, but an obvious and immediate need: we must consistently demonstrate our competitiveness as a country, as businesses and as individuals. The aim of the coalition is to increase the share of public R &amp; D expenditure to 1% of GDP. Growth in public spending contributes to stimulating private investment when the state makes smart use of its resources. At present, public R &amp; D investment does not always contribute sufficiently to our economy. Our research institutions need to work more seriously and closely with the business sector. The link between private R &amp; D and public R &amp; D investment also needs to be strengthened. Research carried out on behalf of and on behalf of companies accounts for less than 5% of R &amp; D institutions' research costs. Moreover, only 1.46% of these companies, which are technologically innovative in Estonia, consider universities and research institutions to be the most valuable cooperation partners, according to the researchers' survey of the University of Tartu. That's a concern. In addition to financing excellence, we must increasingly and better support cooperation between entrepreneurship and universities, as is already the case with smart specialisation measures. Estonian research and development institutions have great competence to carry out excellence and basic research. The capacity for engineering, applied and experimental development required by a wider range of entrepreneurs has remained weak. I believe that the cooperation platform between entrepreneurs and researchers born in cooperation between Tallinn University of Technology and the University of Tartu is a good initiative to come closer to each other. Cooperation must also be supported more than hitherto by a national financing system. An English scientist, philosopher and statesman Francis Bacon has said: 'The right and legitimate goal of science is to enrich mankind with new discoveries and resources. " In the 16th and 17th centuries, Bacon tried to contribute to the focus of science on improving people's living conditions, not just on gathering facts. In certain areas, excellent science is carried out in Estonia. Clinical medicine, molecular biology and genetics, physics and psychology, plant and animal science, marine science and computer science are just a few examples. In changing the financing, our aim is that R &amp; D would bring broad and understandable benefits to the Estonian economy and society as a whole. A greater contribution from science is needed to overcome the challenges we face, such as demography, health and security. I believe that it is a good time to make fundamental strategic changes in Estonian R &amp; D and innovation management and financing. The Task Force on Long-term Financing and Organisation of Science and Higher Education will present its proposals on this issue to the Government of the Republic in the third quarter of this year. We want to improve cooperation between scientists and businesses and increase the impact of science on the development of our economy. Honourable Riigikogu! Growth in R &amp; D investment is a means of achieving greater productivity growth and improving our overall well-being. In 2015, productivity per employed person in Estonia fell to 71.1% of the European Union average, which is below the government target. Let's say it's 73%. In 2014, productivity was 73.8% of the EU average. However, productivity has improved compared to the years before the crisis. However, the target for 2020 is 80% of the EU average, which requires significant additional activities. Unfortunately, Estonia's economic growth is below its potential. According to the International Monetary Fund, growth in Estonia could be 2 to 3% per year, but it reached 1.3 to 1.5% in the three quarters of 2016. In part, growth has slowed down because we have been better off. Growth in highly developed countries is generally slower. According to the long-term forecast scenarios of Eesti Pank and the Ministry of Finance, we will catch up with a better and more prosperous Europe, but this will not happen soon. We need to contribute more to our economic environment. So far, we have gained wealth thanks to investments in machinery and equipment, which have certainly contributed to productivity growth. Estonia's investment rate has been high, and the inflow of foreign investment has contributed to this. However, we have not always made the most of these investments. A simple model of growth, it seems to me, is no longer working. More effective implementation of R &amp; D achievements is needed in order to achieve overall welfare gains. The 1992 government programme of Prime Minister Tiit Vähi highlights the importance of harnessing the potential of domestic science and technology. This idea is still valid today, 25 years later. Research achievements in both Estonia and the rest of the world must contribute to productivity gains through development. However, research is only one input to development, development and innovation are by their very nature much wider areas. Estonian general education schools and higher education institutions play an extremely important role in disseminating innovative thinking and an open world view. Our 15-year-olds are achieving very good results in PISA tests, and we are among the leading countries of Europe and the rest of the world. Strong factual knowledge alone is not enough in today's knowledge-driven economy. There is a need to see links between different disciplines and to use the ability of people and groups to cooperate. Openness and the ability to think more widely than given frames may require. The development of these skills depends on the quality of teaching, education and growth of people. At this point, I would like to acknowledge the work done by the popularists of our science at the Estonian centres. Our children's abilities are important for public wealth, and every innovator in a child needs to be found in the best sense and to create opportunities for him to develop his abilities at the earliest possible age. The aim of the government is to ensure the high quality and accessibility of Estonian education for all. In schools, it must become common practice to establish links between teaching, science and entrepreneurship, only in this way will we receive a follow-up to current doctors, professors and lecturers. Good listeners! The ability to see opportunities for cooperation and joint action is crucial for development. The private sector is often opposed to the public sector. There are contrasts between researchers and entrepreneurs, humanities and real scientists, basic science and applied sciences, foreigners and locals, start-ups and large industrial companies. Tallinn and Tartu are also opposed. Estonian universities are opposed to foreign universities. I think that this constant confrontation is unnecessary and will not lead us forward. Everyone has its strengths, relative advantages that can be applied. We must recognise differences, combine knowledge and skills and world views and use them skillfully. Not confrontation, but competition in a good way leads to life. In doing so, we also need national competition to compete successfully at international level. In today's research-intensive economy, humanities and science complement each other. Steve Jobs, the creator of Apple, has said: 'Apple's DNA technology isn't enough, it's technology with the arts, along with the humanitarian subjects, which gives a result that makes our heart roar, and nowhere is it closer to the truth than in the postpersonal computer devices. ' Steve Jobs has proved that engineering work is important, but it also counts for good design. For entrepreneurs and researchers, cooperation is based on an understanding of each other's strengths, not on emphasising differences. Businesses that create innovative products are characterised by "thinking out of the box." Similarly, cooperation between the private and public sectors is important. The public sector has already successfully implemented new technologies, such as the X-Road and digital signature, which have certainly made it easier for private companies to operate. The European Union's digital economy and society index includes Estonia among the leading countries. In particular, we stand out for the digitisation of public services. The free movement of digital Europe and data is also one of Estonia's priorities in the second half of this year, when we have the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Europe must go along with technological progress, which will change the daily lives of its inhabitants, businesses and countries in a comprehensive way. With the support of the public sector, several successful start-ups in Estonia have been given a strong boost. For example, in 2016, VitalFields, which received initial investment from the National Venture Capital Fund SmartCap, was sold to one of the largest agricultural groups in the world. While emphasising the importance of cooperation between the various parties, however, it is important to note that the great digitalisation of the public sector and the success of Estonian start-ups in the world have not been transferred to the Estonian economy as a whole. Good Riigikogu! In traditional industries, we have limited use of the potential of information and communication technologies compared to the countries of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In recent years, the number of innovative companies in industry has decreased and industry employs fewer researchers and engineers. While in the USA, Sweden, Denmark and Ireland companies invest nearly one quarter of their investment in intellectual property, in Estonia this figure is less than one tenth, although it has indeed doubled between 2007 and 2014. According to the European Union's digital economy and society index, Estonian companies were only 22 in the 28 European Union countries in 2015 when using digital solutions. Europe, in turn, is clearly behind the United States. In Estonia, the low level of digitalisation of business processes within the company stands out. As a digital state, we need to implement digital solutions in all sectors. A similar conclusion has been reached in international analyses such as the OECD. Estonian companies are at a good level compared to OECD countries in terms of broadband internet coverage and the availability of websites. However, in other indicators, such as the use of RFID labels and the management of the value chain, Estonian companies are rather among the poor. One of the central challenges is the lack of awareness of the opportunities of business leaders and owners to use information and communication technologies and the lack of incentives to invest in technology. There is a need to set up cooperation platforms based on the needs and interests of businesses, which will contribute to the digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The spread of new technologies requires the public sector to change its regulations in order to take into account the spread of digital platforms. If the state creates a favourable environment, it will lay the foundations for cooperation between start-ups and large industrial companies. In Estonia, the majority of R &amp; D activities are also carried out in universities compared to the Nordic countries. In the Nordic countries, two thirds of R &amp; D personnel are employed in the business sector; we only have one third. Estonian companies cannot carry out research and development activities enough unless there are people working in this field. The report on the competitiveness of the countries of the World Economic Forum is only the fourth tenth in terms of cooperation between Estonian research institutions and businesses. Cooperation between research and education institutions and businesses needs to improve. I will certainly encourage entrepreneurs to hire specialists with a degree and to invite university doctoral students, engineers and researchers. It is clear that R &amp; D expenditure must rise above the 2015 level, i.e. 1.5% of GDP. The strategic objective of R &amp; D is to ensure the protection of national interests, including national security. Thank you for listening, honourable Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U4	Prime Minister, there are also questions for you. Anne Sulling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U5	Good President! Good Prime Minister! The latest report on the implementation of the R &amp; D &amp; I strategy is that we have managed to increase the number of researchers, the number of publications, the number of patents. But what we have not been able to grow so well is the revenue from new products and services. My question is what is your plan to break this trend so that we can get more new products and services on the market based on research and development.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U6	Thank you for this question. I believe that if I could answer that in two or three minutes, I might ask why all this has not been done in the last 10, 15 or 20 years. But this direction to really put science at the service of our competitiveness, our economic growth, has been a priority for all governments, and it is still the case today. When we met yesterday with TAN, one of the main issues for discussion was how to bring more research into our lives, how to increase the contribution of science. What should be done? Clearly, in a month and a half, the new government has failed to invent a new bicycle. One thing that should definitely be done is, as I said in my report, that basic funding must grow. Take, for example, the same Oki report prepared for TAN on the basis of interviews with scientists. It also stated that the basic funding should be increased. The only question is that if we increase the basic funding, will it really give a real expression to our everyday economic activity. The Estonian Academy of Sciences has also raised the subject of basic funding, and we discussed this in TAN a little yesterday. And specifically, how can we improve the quality of science by increasing basic funding? I think that the work of the task force at the State Chancellery, which should develop ideas and proposals and carry out an analysis of how research institutions could be consolidated, will also play a very important role. All of these solutions could give you the result you asked about. Of course, there are more, but these are some of the proofs I've just done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U7	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U8	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I would like to ask you about this: before you were able to settle in the Stenbock house, you declared with a loud voice that Estonian pig farming would receive a certain amount of extra millions. Everyone knows that the organisations through which it is separated are linked to those close to the Centre Party. Now I was saddened that no cents seemed to be provided for the Estonian University of Life Sciences in the new coalition agreement, even to increase the competitiveness of veterinary education. But worse still, I didn't hear the words "rural university" and "rural life" when I listened to your presentation. Well, the word 'Tartu' did. Why is that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U9	Thank you. There were a number of things together on your question, so I'll answer them in order. First of all, good questioner, you know very well what the challenges facing rural and agriculture have been facing in the last three, four, five years. As a result of your previous work, I'm sure you know that well. And indeed, if you refer to the birth of a new coalition, agriculture and the rural sector at all will be a priority in the eyes of the current coalition. As regards the support for pig farming or breeding, yes, it was evident that there was a need for additional funding. I hope that I am not mistaken in the numbers: EUR 2 million will be added. The second issue that has been the subject of problems is top-ups. I believe that, in principle, you did not oppose this in your work either, but if this agreement was not reached in the previous government, then no agreement was reached. Today we know that already this year, in 2017, top-ups are set at a maximum rate and also at a maximum rate of crisis aid: approximately EUR 19.9 million and EUR 475000 respectively. If you're asking about rural and rural universities, of course they're in focus. After all, no one thinks that universities and research are of no importance to the University of Life Sciences. It's important! I didn't mention different universities in my presentation for one thing or another. But speaking of one cooperation programme, I did indeed name the University of Tartu and Tallinn University of Technology. If you ask whether a country university is important, then it is important and of course you must continue to contribute to it. In this sense, do not misunderstand the report that, if not mentioned at the University of Earth, it is somehow out of focus on research. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U10	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U11	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you called on higher education institutions to hire more researchers. At the same time, it must be said that researchers' salaries will soon no longer be able to compete with perhaps even teachers' salaries. And the strange thing is, they're different by college. My question is about the state's contribution to R &amp; D funding, which is 0.86-0.87% of GDP. So we still have to move to 1%. The previous governments, both the Ansip and the Clothing Government, have constantly fought to increase this figure to 1%. At the meeting in the Committee on Culture, you mentioned that it would rather be expected to fall by 2018. In preparation for the new RES, would you be willing to fight for us to reach 1%?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U12	Thank you. First of all, a few words about competitive wages in the R &amp; D sector. Clearly, the motivation of people working in the field of research and development is diverse and an important source of motivation is, in my opinion, the nature of the work or the work itself that scientists and lecturers do. Let me give you a personal example. If a doctoral student works daily outside the university and writes his doctoral thesis, then the financial support he receives during this study process is really small, even very small. It is practically impossible to motivate if there is no basic salary. When we talk about this funding, you referred to the two previous prime ministers, it is true that in 2017 this figure is approximately 0.86% of GDP. For example, in 2015, it was less than 0.8%, namely 0.77%. There's a slope. The question was, am I fighting for it? This government has not yet had the opportunity to make any budgetary strategies for the country. As far as I know, this last additional funding was decided in the debate on the country's budgetary strategy. If I am not mistaken, it was about 8 million euros or 10 million euros. Am I fighting for this? Of course I will! I think the downward trend is very bad. I would be very pleased if I could say here in front of the Riigikogu that in the discussions on the state's budget strategy, which will start this spring, we will certainly reach this 1% and that it will already be 1% in 2018. But this confirmation would also require a second sentence: it would amount to EUR 35 to 40 million. No, I dare not allow it! I do not dare to allow this proportion to be 1% of GDP in 2018, but that the angle of rise must be maintained, or that this figure must at least remain at the same level, I am absolutely convinced and should be advocated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U13	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You call on entrepreneurs to hire specialists with a degree. At the same time, I read such a point from the introduction to the second measure of the Estonian knowledge-based strategy that it is necessary to create the conditions for the recognition of a degree in society, including preference for persons with a degree in the public sector to fill managerial positions. My question is how you, as Prime Minister, took this point into account in the formation of the Cabinet of Government, or what prevented you from fulfilling this point exemplaryly in the drafting of the Cabinet of Government.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U15	Thank you. I understand that this question was aimed at whether the Prime Minister, when he drew up a government office, examined the existence of the degrees of all possible ministerial candidates and then said that yes, this lady or this gentleman does not really have a degree and there is nothing to do, he does not fit into this position. First of all, the general principle really is that if we can find people with a degree in any managerial profession, including government, it is very good. The person standing before you, you see, has not been able to complete his doctoral studies at Tallinn University of Technology, but I have not given up hope yet. Could this be a qualification requirement? I can't say if it should be black in white on paper, but if the head of the field or the minister of the field or why not the chairman of the Riigikogu commission is a theoretician in this field and perhaps also a practitioner, it will always be useful. I certainly consider this principle to be correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U16	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, there was not a word in your review of how the new government sees the development of Estonian culture and our national sciences. What new proposals do you have? What would you like to change? How strongly do you want to move forward in this direction? None of us doubt that Estonian culture is an excellent contribution to world culture and that it is only our property.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U18	Thank you. In this, you are indeed right, and no other country is fulfilling its obligations. The current government attaches great importance to our constitution. The Constitution states that Estonian culture, language and our people must be maintained and further developed. It is certainly important to further develop Estonian culture and language and to contribute to it. Before I replied here to the question of funding from Riigikogu member Laine Randjärv that the funding of science as a whole should be taken into account. The preservation and further development of Estonian culture is, in today's government's view, also very important for integration. We must contribute money to this, so that more and more people speak good Estonian here in Maryland. This is also how we maintain our language and culture. So this area is certainly a priority for the current government, which is already due to our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U19	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U20	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You said in your presentation that researchers should also be more involved in solving social problems. I have not noticed this very much when dealing with general education and social issues here in the Riigikogu. How do you feel that the state is using enough scientific research in its policy making? Do you have any good examples of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U21	I don't think I use enough. I'm sure we could use more and more bet. As I said, the task force is currently working on how better consolidation could be achieved so that the output of science is greater for Estonian society. These results should be available in July. On the other hand, yesterday at the TAN meeting, it was proposed that we should, in view of the new financing period, stop and analyse for a moment what has been well done so far and what has been badly done so far, which are our main challenges. I am not very original, saying that one of the main challenges is to ensure that the direction of research should be more and more parallel to the direction of Estonia's competitiveness and the improvement of the economy at all. And it can certainly also be supported by the public sector. What can we do better? When we talk about research and development, it is well known that on the one hand, the Ministry of Education and Research is involved, on the other hand, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The aim is to harmonise these positions, to find a greater common role in R &amp; D. I would like to mention, for example, how to increase the public contribution so that these achievements are used more often in our daily activities in the public sector. This is one example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U22	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U23	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Yesterday, you discussed at the R &amp; D Council that you could order an evaluation of R &amp; D from the OECD. External experts, such as the International Monetary Fund, have continued to pay attention to research and development. One of the things that stood out to the IMF on their last mission was that institutions of higher education have little cooperation with companies. You yourself mentioned in your presentation that cooperation between businesses and higher education could be stepped up. I'm asking you how to achieve this. Do you have action plans or proposals to increase the interest of universities in concluding contracts with entrepreneurs? What can be done to enable companies to order more work from universities and to increase the volume of contracts? One way is to promote it through a financing model. But do you have any concrete proposals on how to achieve this? It is not enough to stress the importance of this matter alone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U24	Thank you. Indeed, yesterday's TAN meeting highlighted that the socio-economic impact of R &amp; D is one aspect that is to be analysed. It has not been agreed to order this analysis from one place or another, including the organisation you mentioned. This proposal was on the table, but it is known that this analysis would be quite expensive. But we're going to do some preliminary work to figure out the starting point, that's what we want to do, that's the point one, and that's the point two we're going to order the analysis from. There's an agreement that we'll discuss it at the next TAN meeting. This is likely to take place already in the following quarter at the end of March or at the beginning of April. We also agreed that the frequency of TAN meetings should be twice as high. Let us hope that this will also provide an additional contribution. When it comes to why the private sector does not finance more R &amp; D and what should be done to improve the situation, some figures first. When we talk about 2015, the private sector's contribution increased the most when it comes to spending. As I said, it amounted to nearly EUR 140 million. If we compare it to 2014, then then the contribution was EUR 125 million. At the same time, private R &amp; D expenditures have certainly been lower in 2013-2015 than in previous years, such as 2011 and 2012. This is mainly linked to a reduction in R &amp; D spending in the oil industry. Other industries have not increased their R &amp; D expenditure in the same volume and the number of companies that are spending has also decreased. For example, in 2009, more than 300 companies made their contribution, namely 303 companies, while in 2014 there were 226 companies. Is that a problem? Yeah, that's a bad trend. Either way, it's bad! If you are interested in some more figures, only 1.46% of technologically innovative companies consider universities or research institutions to be the most valuable partner. The number of R &amp; D spending companies, as I mentioned, has decreased over the last five years. What should be done? What are these practical steps? We have very many very high-level laboratories, and I think that access to these laboratories by the private sector should be improved. That's one. Secondly, the private sector must also place its own resources in this same R &amp; D activity to develop its own products or services. The private sector should have an interest in hiring more researchers, hiring more engineers. These are some examples that may help to move this area forward. I think we are rightly talking about the opportunities that open up in Estonia with regard to the European Space Agency. I asked that we discuss whether Estonia could be a member of another similar organisation at the next TAN meeting in any case. If you ask me, what exactly do I mean, will I bring CERN, for example, if Estonia could belong there or not? If Estonia were to be part of it, would we have the opportunity to participate in major procurements that require state-of-the-art technology? Would it also give us more knowledge and experience? Those are some keywords.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U25	The one-minute question is Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U26	Thank you, Honourable Chairman. Honorable Prime Minister! I will continue with the preliminary questioner on the subject of the Scientific and Development Council. My colleague said that you said at the meeting of the Committee on Culture that you had plans to restructure the work of this Council. You already mentioned the frequency of meetings, but do you have any plans to change the composition of the Council? There has been criticism that humanitarianism has been under-represented in this Council. Or do you have any other plans to restructure TAN's activities? Yesterday, I went to the TAN website to prepare for today's debate under 'Materials'. The last material that has been put up concerns this so-called 'Ok' report. There are no more indications of last year's activities than the Council's protocols.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U27	Thank you. It's not my job to dissect how many materials are up there since 2016. As I said, for the first time, I had the honour of being the chairman of the TAN sitting yesterday. Yes, I did say in the Committee on Culture that certain changes I consider important. One is the change in the frequency of meeting, as I said. Secondly, it was under discussion whether TAN's views would remain broadly indicative or whether TAN would take certain final decisions. As a result of the debate, I felt strongly that it was right to stick to the recommendation. Yesterday, the members of the TAN suggested that each session, and indeed, there are few of them per year, four pieces of them, could be one very strongly focused theme. You asked if you could change the composition. Yes, I have also heard criticism of the lack of representation of humanities. Give me a minute! I do not rule out certain changes to the composition of the TAN. At the moment, the Council is of 12 members, as far as I know. Yesterday we put on the table the blocks of the main topics of this year, 2017, which we could discuss in March, August and November. Now the TAN members have about a week to make their proposals. If you want to know if any material will be available in the coming days or in the coming week to complete the home page, then I think that the material on what will be discussed at the next session and what will definitely come in August and November.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U28	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U29	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Estonian researchers have been very successful in obtaining funding from the European Union's Framework Programmes. For example, Horizon 2020 has compared Estonia to the European Union average. We have been more effective than twice, and also more successful than our good Baltic neighbours, in terms of decades ago. My question is that your coalition has promised to get the Estonian economy started. In which field of research in Estonia has the greatest potential to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U30	Thank you. I do not know whether to start reading here the important economic steps that the current coalition has promised to take. In this sense, you are right that focusing attention on the economy is one of the coalition's priorities. We all know that according to Estonia's business growth strategy, smart specialisation belongs to three areas. And these are the areas that could have the greatest potential. It is very difficult to identify one area of growth, we can consider those that could have the potential for a rapid increase in added value and which would give Estonia competitive advantages. These three areas are, firstly, information and communication technology, which, horizontally, passes through other sectors. An example is the development of cyber security software. Another area is health technologies and services, such as biotechnology, e-medicine. The third area, which is the growth stage of this smart specialisation, is the more efficient use of resources: materials in science and industry, the development of a smart house concept, the chemical industry. So there is more than one area and one cannot be mentioned in particular.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U31	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U32	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I have done many things in my life, including in agriculture. I remember that while I was doing this, it was possible to buy our own Estonian seed and other domestic agricultural products from shops. It's practically gone in 25 years. Do you think it is conceivable to place plant breeding, breeding and the development of technologies as one of the economic priorities in agriculture and to see a potential export article in it? It is quite clear that this requires a state development programme, a financing programme. There was a talk about what sectors could be like that will get Estonia started. Do you think there is potential here, and do you think it could be one of the prospective development areas of the current government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U33	Thank you. I think the potential is where we have people where we have knowledge and where we have great experience. In agriculture, rural areas have all three things. So a short answer, whether it could be a priority or whether it is a priority: yes, it is. We could even think a little more boldly when we talk about research and development when we talk about the competitiveness of the economy. I think we are quite often, I do not know whether we are afraid or not to say this, but these three pillars have also been very strong in the textile sector. But in this area, on which you asked: of course!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U34	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U35	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! I will continue with my question of your previous answer. The R &amp; D &amp; I strategy has decided to focus on a limited number of areas of growth and smart specialisation. You have identified three important areas on which focussed: ICT, e-health, technology and resources. My question is whether such a focus on specific issues has justified itself. And the other half of the question: does this correspond to a responsible, balanced research policy that should develop society as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U36	Well, it turns out from your question that, on the one hand, we have to specialize. We must highlight the areas of growth and the priorities in which we feel that we have greater potential to create added value. On the other hand, I agree that we must not forget the whole picture, the broad picture. And that's it, work is actually a two-way street. I have said several times that the results of the Task Force's analysis will be available in June-July and these results will have to show how we will proceed with consolidation of science, consolidation of research institutions. Yes, the initial proposals have been made, the steps have been taken, but that does not mean that this action is over. So apart from bringing out these areas, we must not forget the whole picture.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U37	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U38	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! Companies and research are certainly one of the key issues in the implementation of scientific achievements in Estonia. How could one organisation, such as EAS, contribute more effectively to the implementation of science in business? That leaves a lot to be desired right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U39	I have answered this question Aivar Sõerdi to some extent. Even the same discussion at TAN yesterday highlighted the extent to which, when we talk about R &amp; D, in fact, the opposition of the ministries, the same silo towers that have been used. That's one thing I think. It has also been asked whether the TAN should continue in the first place. Couldn't it be eliminated and created a new formation instead? I don't think so. One of the objectives of the TAN could be to reduce confrontation in the country. Yesterday it was clear that there was science on one side and on the other there was economic development, business development. These areas must be brought under more than one hat, including the Enterprise Estonia you mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U40	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U41	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! You have mentioned a lot about the future organisation of TAN and its role in the future, but how do you feel about TAN's proposals so far? What about implementing these proposals? More specifically, I am thinking that the previous TAN report called into question the purpose and sustainability of the current financing model and free higher education. What is the Prime Minister's position on this matter?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U42	Thank you. I take this report seriously. I've brought it out many times today. One suggestion is indeed to redesign the financing model for higher education and research. I do not know for which reasons this has not been highlighted, but I very much like one recommendation that relates to the fact that any coordinated marketing in Estonian higher education institutions could be entirely a topic. Next, the TAN report also proposes to reform and consolidate the network of research institutions of Estonian universities and other higher education institutions. If the question is whether or not I take these suggestions as a basis for my work, I will reply. As regards the higher education that you asked about, it is a very firm position that free higher education in Estonia must remain. This is our foundation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U43	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U44	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! You mentioned that there is a lack of cooperation between scientists and businesses, but I would argue that there is also a little lack of cooperation with the country. You have already stated that there have been very few proposals by scientists for national governance. But why aren't they involved? What has prevented this, for example, from developing solutions to state reform and whether or not to develop our e-governance brand? Public reform in general would mean introducing new alternative solutions through e-services. For example, why is there no e-election system for members of the Riigikogu in this House? Why do we have to vote on paper on a note? At all, there could be solutions and ideas on how to use our young people through this, when the country has a little more money in this sector. I see that the private sector is venting IT money a little too much. Could be more effective and targeted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U45	Thank you. First of all, I will start with our Presidency. As I said, the whole digital issue is one of Estonia's priorities under the Presidency. What's our point? On the one hand, we want to pass on our very great experience to our partners in the European Union. We want to pass them on in order to get medical prescriptions moving as e-services and quickly, so that we can sign documents digitally, so that the various geoblocks currently in existence disappear, so that the use of a mobile phone or the Internet, regardless of which country of the European Union it is, is more affordable, more operational, more efficient. These are the areas on which we want to focus during the EU Presidency. Now, in Estonia are we contributing enough or not to e-services in the public sector? I remember one report from the National Audit Office, which was prepared five or six years ago. Criticism was then directed to the need for local authorities to do some software development in any area. At that time, we must have had 223 or 226 municipalities and asked why a common system would not be implemented, which would be interoperable and certainly cheaper and more reasonable, but 226 different software solutions would be made, which by the end of the day would not connect to each other and would not do any good. As regards the issue of state reform and all administrative reform, this process should be completed within the next year and half. But this also relates to the issue of what services are offered to our citizens. I think, on the one hand, there must be a chance that you can always solve your problem by talking face to face with a customer serviceman. It has to stay. But the greater resource must be directed to the fact that we can carry out more and more of our daily activities with the help of e-services. As far as the Riigikogu is concerned, you understand that executive power has no right to say how things should work in the corridors of legislative power. If, however, these thoughts arise and need help and advice, then surely the government is willing to share it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U46	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U47	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I also ask about the preparation and implementation of administrative reform. The previous government did not consult universities and scientists; decisions were made out of their own wisdom. This has also been confirmed in this Chamber when dealing with administrative reform. Will the current government involve scientists when it comes to the reform of the state that is to come to fruition, the elimination of rural governments, the creation of regional units, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U48	Thank you. This is where the leader of the previous government, Mr. Taavi Kõivas, sits. So what do I say? It is not the case that when one government goes and another comes, it is like a clean country, that nothing is left, and everything is new when there is a new government. These same ministries and officials will continue to work on the basis of various documents approved either by the Riigikogu or by the government. Of course, there are changes in direction in politics. The main change of direction now is, in my opinion, how the Estonian person manages every day. On your criticism, however, I would like to say that I am sure that the Taavi Clothing government also listened to scientists, he was also at the top of the TAN. Are we listening to professionals in the field of administrative reform and state reform? The answer is, let's listen. When the coalition agreement was concluded, it was also a practice that scientists or other specialists from these fields made a presentation in the areas that came to the table for discussion. For example, Professor Sulev Mäelseman gave a presentation in advance of the discussion of administrative reform and local government issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U49	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U50	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! I am concerned about the last round of the measure concerning the regional centres of competence. It happened that no applicant received funding for the design design. It was last December. And I'm particularly concerned about what I'm doing. For example, I will mention one region in particular, Pärnumaa. Last time support was requested for the development of tourism, it was said that it was not science-based enough. This time support was requested for the management of bio-resources, as has the development fund recommended throughout Estonia, and this is supported by the structure of Pärnumaa. In the context of the use of bio-resources, the establishment of a spoon plant and the development of wind farms would clearly be justified. But this time it was said that the project was not science-based enough. My question: is regional approach important? And is this approach rather an obstacle to or facilitates cooperation between our R &amp; D representatives and businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U51	It would be quite impossible to answer your questions, that no, regional approach does not matter at all. Of course, the regional approach is important! I think it is particularly important if we can bring together the public sector and the private sector outside Harjumaa, in other counties. Just as with this particular example, there may be one or two companies in other situations who say that when cooperation is born, we invest here, we invest in innovation, we invest in our R &amp; D, because that is how we hope to get a higher value product or service. This is extremely important! I think that's the way to approach it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U52	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U53	Prime Minister! I understand that it is very difficult to get into the subject at the beginning of the term of office. But you could have told me a little bit about whether the government is planning any changes in the organisation of research or in the funding of science. All these numbers and all this history is one thing, it's not your business. The question is whether you are going to the current financing model, will you reverse the reforms in research organisation? These signs are actually already in the air.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U54	Thank you. One characteristic of a democratic society is that no changes of government can be predicted. They happen when they happen. At the end of last year, a change of government. And we have had such a procedure that, at the end of the year, mostly at the beginning of December, there will be an overview of research and development. The previous government didn't do it. It was perhaps on 14 December, if there had been an opportunity to give an overview, but then there was a European Council meeting. We've finally come this far today. So we are actually doing this presentation twice this year in front of the Riigikogu: today for last year and very likely again in December 2017. However, the question was about financing and restructuring. First of all, I have already given a lot of answers about funding. Your groupmate Laine Randjärv, for example, asked about this. When we are talking about funding science on a public-sector basis, the course is, of course, to maintain levels and reach 1% of GDP. If this government association is to be used as a basis for its documentation, this will have to be achieved by 2019. That's what we're working for.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U55	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U56	Good President! Good Prime Minister! I felt very warm when you quoted Francis Bacon and his thoughts about what was good about knowing some 400 years ago. It is beneficial for all of us to meditate on such matters from time to time. But here's my question: what place could there be in this broader context of disciplines such as semiotics, philosophy, religious science and classical philology?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U57	Thank you. I don't know how much this relates to Monika Haukanõmme's question, but I already said that such a wide spectrum is certainly not out of focus. It is understandable that when we develop high technology, we strive to specialise and we have identified the growth grounds in two or three areas, which have been the focus of scientific cooperation. But the disciplines you mentioned are also important and are very clearly being developed within this wide spectrum.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U58	Javier in clothing, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U59	Prime Minister! Like Jürgen Ligi, I am interested in whether the government coalition is planning any fundamental changes in research and development and its organisation. I have already received one answer from your answer to the question of Laine Randjärv when you said that, like the previous government, as well as the former government, gradually moved towards the goal of reaching 1% of gross domestic product in terms of financing, you are also trying to achieve this. Now we should get to that 1% in two years. That is certainly good news, and we intend to make sure that you really achieve this goal. However, my question concerns the structure, namely the recommendation on consolidation of research institutions in the Ok report, which has, as we know, been supported by the TAN. Do you support Ok's proposal, or is there going to be a change?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U60	I will start with the second part of the question which R &amp; D institutions could be merged. As far as I know, seven proposals have been made. So let's get over them. First of all, Tartu Observatory joins the University of Tartu. As far as I know, a memorandum of understanding has now been signed and an accession agreement is under preparation. The merger will take place on 1 January 2018 and will be carried out under the ASTRA programme. Secondly, the Estonian Biocentre joins the University of Tartu. The Memorandum of Understanding with its content has also been signed; its accession is intended to move forward at the beginning of next year. Third, Estonian Information Technology College joins Tallinn University of Technology. The Accession Agreement has been concluded and since September 2017 the reception will take place jointly. The main objectives of this merger are to reduce unreasonable competition for resources and to increase the practicality of curricula and the involvement of practitioners. Fourthly, Lääne-Viru University of Applied Sciences joins Tallinn University. The situation should be that the joint intentions protocol has been signed last July and the accession is scheduled to be completed by September this year. The fifth question was the accession of the Estonian Language Institute to the University of Tartu. It is known that the Estonian Language Council believes that the Institute of Estonian Language should continue to be independent. Sixthly, the accession of the Institute of Chemical Physics and Biophysics to some universities was supported and, as far as I am concerned, these negotiations will continue. Of course, it matters what the Institute thinks of it. The seventh proposal concerned the Institute for Health Development. It has been decided to take note of this information and the possible accession to a research organisation or university will be discussed after the analysis has been completed. So much for mergers. Now, is there anything important that is going to change in funding? Let me explain to you that when we talk about this 1%, it's actually one third of our target. The other two thirds should come from the private sector. I think that, in the area of financing, greater attention must be paid precisely to the full cooperation between the private sector and the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U61	Please, Viktoria Ladynskaya!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U62	Prime Minister! My question relates to the previous question that sounded in this Chamber. During the previous government, or last year, and in 2015 the great question was precisely the fate of the Estonian Language Institute. I ask once again that you stress that the situation is clearer now. Our group thinks that the role of the Institute of Estonian Language in the Estonian scientific landscape is very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U63	Yes, I stress that the situation is clearer and that the Institute will continue as it has now formulated its work. The Government Union has also said that we want to give it extra money, and that is what is being done.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U64	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! You have confirmed that the foundation of higher education remains free of charge higher education. In light of this, I have a question as to whether it is intended to do something to keep young educated people working in Estonia and to continue in their specialty. And is it just the Home Office's plan that if the graduate of the National Defence Academy doesn't start working in their specialty, they'll pay back the training fee? Is this the only swallow, or are there other thoughts in this direction?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U66	Thank you. What I know is that the Minister of Education and Science is dealing with this issue. I fully understand this concern, because our country clearly stands for free higher education. But it is not bad if young people who have received higher education in Estonia, whether they are a bachelor, a master or a doctorate, go elsewhere after having obtained their qualification. It's not bad and it's great if they get more professional knowledge and experience elsewhere. However, they could return to Estonia and contribute to our society. I have been talking to the Minister for Education and Science about this in the coming weeks and, as far as I know, he has some pretty good ideas on how to solve this issue. He's said he's trying to come up with these thoughts in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U67	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U68	Thank you. I was very pleased to hear that the development of Estonian culture and language is important to the government, also through research policy. Thank you so much for that. However, I would ask for some clarification as to what the government is planning to do in order for Estonian science to be largely in Estonian. Would it be possible to obtain higher education in such a way that all mandatory texts are available in Estonian and that our people have access to all the world's most important cultural and scientific achievements in their own language?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U69	Thank you. I begin by saying that when we talk about language learning, the coalition agreement states that we will raise the level of Estonian language. We also raise it among people in Estonia who do not speak Estonian every day, whose home language is Russian. This is not only such a slogan; it must also be accompanied by concrete actions. In my opinion, there must be a start on substantive activities, and they must also be supported financially. Financial support for language learning is also provided for in the coalition agreement of the new government union. Now whether the higher education must be entirely in Estonian. We now have the opportunity to study higher education and to do scientific articles and graduations in one language and another. But you probably wanted to point out with your question that if Estonian universities do not support higher education in Estonian, then who will support it? No other university in another country will hardly support it. I believe that it is absolutely necessary to consider the Estonian language as important in the field of higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U70	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! When Mr Helme from our group asked a question concerning research in the agricultural sector, you considered it a very promising direction that should be developed further. However, like the agricultural sector, the timber industry is also very important in Estonia, the development of which absolutely does not involve applied research. How could this problem be solved and what can you do to put the lack of applied research on the table as a serious deficiency and make it a priority for the government to develop research?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U71	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U72	Thank you. I think that, as far as this area, forestry policy and forestry are concerned, our great experience in this is of value in itself. The value in itself is also private sector companies that are currently able to produce products that are very attractive on international markets. When you ask how to further develop this sector, I have already explained our view that we need to increase cooperation between the public sector and the private sector. This, in my opinion, is also crucial in this area. Wood has been our biggest export source; wood is one natural resource that we have been able to do a good job using. This has had a strong impact on Estonian exports. These are my thoughts in answering that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U73	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U74	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Prime Minister! What is the government's position on whether we could carry out research in the field of defence at Tallinn University of Technology and elsewhere? Are there any additional investments planned here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U75	Thank you. The Government Union has indeed agreed to allocate additional funds in the field of defence. This comes from an additional investment programme of 315 million. Of course, it is a question of nature that, when it comes to defence in general, what exactly are these investments going into? This is also a question for the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U76	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U77	Thank you. Prime Minister, first of all, thank you very much for a thorough and good presentation. But I also have one question. How do you think our society can increase the application of law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U78	One way to apply it better is if the members of the Riigikogu, who have a legal education, are a degree in law, such as a doctorate, use their knowledge more. I'm also pointing out an idea that the Academy of Sciences put on the table yesterday. The idea was that, on the one hand, we are always talking about scientific cooperation between the public and private sectors, but we also need to talk about the contribution of scientists and top specialists in our field to the public sector. The idea that went through the table last night was how to bring more scientists to ministries, for example, through either the Academy of Sciences or Estonian universities. The subject was dealt with yesterday by TAN, and I think this debate will continue next time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U79	Prime Minister, there are no further questions for you right now. I'm opening negotiations. Representatives of the political groups will take the floor. Barbi Pilvre on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U80	Good President! Prime Minister! Dear Riigikogu! I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his enlightening presentation on the state of research, development and innovation. The report said that although Estonia has developed a high level of research and development, we have a good record of international publishing and quoting, and the state is making a significant contribution to maintaining and raising this level, there is an urgent need to increase cooperation between science and entrepreneurship. An innovative idea, if it is funded from public resources, should become more common in science and be applicable to the benefit of Estonian people. In my presentation on behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to focus first and foremost on communication between the scientific world and society. On the one hand, it could be accepted that Estonian science lives in its ivory tower and does not interact with the surrounding society. For the wider public, scientific assignments and scientific knowledge are too complex anyway. Since it is impossible to reduce scientific knowledge to fit the media in black and white formats, it might be better not to talk about science in the public domain at all and to allow this area to live its inwards life undisturbed. Probably only a few people in this Chamber have an idea of what Estonian science does today, even on the soft side of it, which has not been mentioned especially today, i.e. social science and humanities. Communication between science and the public is rather low. Every year hundreds of master's thesis and dozens of doctoral thesis produce new knowledge in Estonia. In a good case, an article about some work will also be published in Estonian at Sirbis, but most of the new knowledge created will remain in the university's data banks in the form of files. In a good case, they may serve as a basis for some of the next students. The scientific texts are often in English only. Applied in the Estonian academic world, at least in the humanities and social sciences, is a word with a negative tinge, and applied works are often considered less demanding. Some examples of current scientific topics in Estonia. At the beginning of this year, the Estonian Research Council received a personal research grant, or PUT, which is the hallmark of the highest pilotage of Estonian science, seven researchers from Tallinn University, and, indirectly, my colleagues at Tallinn University. In the near future, these top researchers will be able to deal with the theoretical model, subjectivity and expression of cultural change and conflict in the work of Yuri Lotman, the relational approach to governance of vile problems, the demography aspect of the 19th century rural and urban society, the challenges facing the audiovisual industry in the digital age. I very much hope that researchers will have the inspiration to deal with their own topics, but I also hope that the new and interesting knowledge they receive will eventually return to Estonian society as well, enriching our understanding of the surrounding and self-esteem. Perhaps this will serve as a basis for some appropriate theme setting in the public debate. Some academic findings may find a place in meaningful form between textbook courses, in lecture courses or serve as a basis for some decision making, perhaps helping to analyse some of the current problems more widely. I hope that some researchers who have received research grants will also publish some texts in Estonian. I dare say that the Estonian research institution is intrinsically not conducive to the spread of scientific knowledge in Estonian society. While more and more knowledge about society and people is being produced in universities, there is an undisputed post-truth situation in the Estonian public, voodoo-eye distortion and hocus-pocus, which is heated by the media. We must be honoured that both the new management and universities of the Academy of Sciences are making an effort to popularise scientific knowledge. Our small-scale cultural journals can be highlighted. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U81	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U82	However, if the Estonian Research Information System, or ETIS, does not generally qualify articles published in Estonian as scientific texts, there are exceptions, researchers will not have the motivation to express themselves in Estonian. A few enthusiasts are dealing with it. Even Estonian-language higher education textbooks do not qualify for ETIS status. The articles of the Academy, Sirb, and Rainbow are as good as nothing to assess the scholar's qualifications. Newspaper articles may even have a negative impact on the profile of a scientist. Thus, the scientific knowledge of society reaches politicians and other decision-makers at random, at best through some expert opinion or through a popular portal in a simplified form. On the other hand, it is perfectly understandable that research must be internationally competitive, comparable in its own field. Therefore, the articles of a highly classified magazine in English are in place to assess the quality of research. It has been agreed that the international level of Estonian science is shown by the index of quotivity and that the quality of science is measured bibliometrically, i.e. the quotibility of articles is measured. As quoted, there are several scientists in Estonia who are the world's top players in their field, even if they are little known to the Estonian public. We can then rejoice that Estonian scientists contribute to global science and advance the meaning of the world. In the field of so-called hard sciences, R &amp; D investments focus on top science, excellency, which according to experts, there is not enough demand in the Estonian economy. According to experts from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, there is no visible output in the Estonian economy in science. It has even been assumed that if the national system of funding for research is not changed, this output will never come into existence in the economy. It is considered that consideration should be given to what R &amp; D investment is made up of, why it is like this, and to what extent and how it will return to the economy and society. Social democrats also believe that there is a need to involve the private sector more in financing research in Estonia. However, it assumes that the private sector sees a clear link between its activities and its benefits in the financing of research. As the Prime Minister noted, only a fraction of Estonian innovative companies consider Estonian universities and research institutions to be the most valuable partners in cooperation. According to experts, the system of funding for research should be changed and the funding made more dependent on contributing to economic growth in Estonia. Researchers should also be motivated to cooperate with the private sector and society would benefit from a career model of a researcher that would value engineering-technical skills and business cooperation, so that the contribution to society is also assessed in the researcher's CV. In the opinion of the Socialists, in the light of the R &amp; D strategy, attention should also be paid to the salaries of university teachers, which are not often heard by the public. We are talking about teachers' and kindergartens' salaries, but in Estonia there is a large group of educators from universities, whose salaries are often awkwardly low, depending on their speciality, taking into account qualifications requirements. However, the post-growth of researchers depends on the lecturers, without which there will be no R &amp; D and innovation strategy in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U83	But I'm done right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U84	You still have half a minute.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U85	Got it. Thank you. Jürgen Ligi of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U86	Honourable Vice President! Honourable Riigikogu! I'm not speaking, I'd rather comment on the Prime Minister's speech. In essence, he repeatedly expressed the consistency of education policy in his speech and, in that sense, supported the things that I have stood for and for which my predecessors have stood. So I wouldn't repeat the general overview. In this speech, I liked first of all the fact that he marked some of Estonia's scientific achievements. Scientists really don't get enough attention. Unfortunately, it is in a kind of ironic way, like a combination of athletes, because he didn't mention scientists other than the sports reporter style. I also enjoyed recognising the contributions of previous governments and assessing consistency. I hope that this line will continue to be maintained by the government. And, of course, I liked that the government has not taken an even deeper interest in R &amp; D, which also means that it has not screwed up, as has happened in some other areas, unfortunately. An amendment has been proposed as a consequence of the amendment. There was a lot of talk about entrepreneurship and the economy. It felt like one page was rolled several times, and then it starts all over again. In the course of this, the Prime Minister secretly admitted that the general economic policy agenda of the government has been that the key to the economy is not that the state must revive the economy by favouring stupid and simple industries, subsidising low wages and simply building. So I acknowledge: the Prime Minister acknowledged that the key to our economy is, however, to improve our structure, to improve our position in the international division of labour and to a smart economy. However, there is reason to say that word when it comes to R &amp; D. But there was a lack of a method to change the structure of the economy and increase the wisdom of the economy. All of this would have been simply refuelable from the Ministry of Education, but actually from the State Chancellery. It seems to me that the assistance of experts in drafting this speech had not been used, but it would have been necessary to show how science and the economy could be linked and how science could be better integrated into the economy through education. What I least liked was that this speech lacked a general vision of the meaning of science in society. All this business and business talk was such a very simple technopath view. The whole dream was how to make soup or steak out of science and how to put it on a frying pan. Why we need science wasn't mentioned. After all, it begins with the fundamental role of science in society being to provide knowledge. And in a situation where, in fact, more opinions, interest, impressions, fashion, online media, as far as I am concerned, false news, faith, propaganda, irrationality of such things, it would have been very important to make a bow to science. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U87	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U88	If we want to make a bear a coat or a meal, it's nice to have a wake, but in this case, a passage could have been just a tribute. The significance of science in society must grow and, in this sense, our attitude towards politicians should depend on how much they understand the importance of knowledge. Political competition must not be dominated by the audience's appeal dimension. There is certainly no longer any explanation from an uneducated politician about what the engine of stagnation was called by one of them when it went to overthrow the government. But the Prime Minister actually illustrated it a little bit. I liked this section, where the majority of the places mentioned in the 'business' section were not very meaningful, that there is no innovation in entrepreneurship, and that the stagnation is not really due to the lack of innovation in our country, but rather to the fact that companies cannot, do not want or do not know how to be innovative. And it is not just about digital solutions; it is about a much wider innovation. What else is there to mention? I would have liked to have had a stronger message about the scientific organization that was still changing. This is definitely not about Gunnar Ok, but we have come to the concrete proposals of this report that Gunnar Okk has put together, the stages that have been discussed in the government or rather in the TAN. That could have been noted. That we want to turn things back here, I've heard from the Minister of Education and Science. And since a lot of language was spoken here, and since he has mentioned it as if care for the language were expressed in the independence of the Institute of the Estonian Language, I say that I proposed to raise the profile of the Institute of the Estonian Language, to add it to the University of Tartu and give it more academic meaning so that the impact on society would be greater. But I've heard that this step is being abandoned. Unfortunately, there was no comment on the new visions that will be made in the research organisation. In the area of finance, I certainly wish the government strength! After the RES procedure, let's see if it's recorded in 1% of the RES. My prime ministers have supported it, and it would have happened next spring. But my question of funding was more about the structure: how should the model of funding for institutions give priority to different areas of research? We hope that the Prime Minister will address this in the next presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U89	Mart Helme will have the floor on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U90	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Prime Minister! I want to start with what others have already come up with here, namely thanks for bringing this issue to the hall. No one doubts that science and the implementation of scientific achievements are a key issue that will determine whether our small economy will become internationally competitive. I listened to your presentation, and I also followed the questions and answers, and I had this idea, which I have actually thought about before and expressed that there are some aspects that have not been given enough attention. One thing is that we treat science all the time as something that we have to bring to industry or agriculture or in some other area, why not also in the service sector, and in this way to deserve science in practice. But looking at our small economy, looking at very modest market volumes, I have personally started to think more and more that our applied sciences should be an independent export-able industry. All that our scientists can figure out, be it in the field of genetic engineering, be it in the field of breeding and plant breeding, be it in the field of wood chemistry, no matter how innovative these ideas are, our small economy will mostly be narrow to these ideas. This means that these things must also be used as export items. It is very clear here that there are two important issues to this issue. One relates to patenting or intellectual property, to be taken more broadly, and the other relates to bureaucracy. Let us look at the plenary agenda this week. There are several drafts on this agenda that are directly related to European directives. If I were the Prime Minister, I would initiate a proper audit of all the Euro Directives and the legislative acts resulting from them and throw into the trash everything that can be thrown into it and which clearly hinders the implementation of the competitiveness and innovation of our economy. Believe me, a lot could be thrown into the trash bin, and on many occasions it would not create any conflict with the European Commission or with the Directorates, because many of the things that we have been dealing with here over the years are not mandatory, but recommended. So my sincere advice to the current government and to the Prime Minister is to look at bureaucracy and all prevent legislation from being discarded. Otherwise, we'll suffocate ourselves. It's like sitting in a closed room where there's no fresh air because all the doors and windows are shut. These are the thoughts that arose when listening to this report. I'm not gonna point the finger at what's a priority and what's not a priority. It is clear that in certain areas we are stronger, weaker in certain areas, but one more thing I want to pay attention to, which a good colleague from the Social Democratic Party has pointed out is social sciences. I would like to single out, I don't know, maybe after me, the performer of the Centre Party will also speak about these topics, the so-called "national sciences." I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U91	Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U92	We are such a small cultural space, we are such a small language space that if we do not stand up for our national sciences, our history, our social sciences, our social sciences, no one else will do it for us. Of course, we are always bumping into one thing on all issues: it is a lack of money. But I have lived my whole conscious life, unfortunately, according to the advice of my late mother: Let the ruble go, the ten of the room come! This was in the Soviet era, when we had a ruble, now we could say let the euro go, room for ten. The use of money cannot be taken simply as a cost. When we talk about the use of money in Estonia, we talk about it very much as spending, but the use of money should be an investment in our approach. We should bear in mind how the use of money bears the percentages. Percentages may not be and cannot always be material, that ten really will be replaced by the euro. The benefits may be even more circumstantial, much longer. And when deciding how to use the money, we should not always ask where the sources of cover are. There's always money, it's a matter of priorities. It is clear that national sciences should also be a priority alongside applied sciences. Those were the thoughts that arose. But, once again, I hope that today's presentation and debate will not be left to write a tick, but that the Prime Minister will really fulfill his promises in this board that science, the implementation of scientific achievements will be dealt with and incorporated into this work not just our unlimited scientific potential, our brain potential as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U93	On behalf of the Black Estonian Centre Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister's presentation on research and development is an old tradition. I am one of those who have listened to them at least since 2007 and have rejoiced every time. And an old example I've already used on this remote once. If I have later tried to quote these good ideas during the budget debate, I have been asked just as my good colleague, Mart Helme, has just pointed out: 'But where do you take the money for this? ' Today's presentation was interesting, thought-provoking and admirable in the sense that such a presentation would normally be produced a little longer than the current government has ever been in office. So it's a great miracle to be able to account for things that are neither theoretically nor practically resolved, as several of the questioners here have pointed out. Education and research development are areas of very long tradition. They must have strong foundations, they will not be built in an instant. We're very proud now, as you've all probably noticed, of the PISA test results, and we're talking about where we have good students. Some praise the previous government for that. Some, such as the Minister of Education, say that, oh, see, I was the Minister of Education and that is why everyone is so good. However, I can say that the 19th-century Estonian faith in education has a greater impact on the results of our PISA test than on one or the other of the factors mentioned in the reports. It turned out very well from the Prime Minister's report that the state does not do science. The government doesn't do science. They create the conditions under which education and research development work best in the interests of our society. However, it is quite interesting to make such reviews to compare us and those who are around us. There's talk of a 'good old comparative method'. I have watched with interest what similar reports from other countries close to us say. It's pretty exciting. My experience is such that I mean not this, but last year, that all the former post-communist countries are talking about how they are immediately making a breakthrough in science, because they are at the forefront of information technology and biomedicine. That's what everybody says. We'll talk, too. At the same time, the fact that traditions are very strong is one of the peculiarities of this post-communist block. It will be done how good quality has been achieved. And it is quite often the case that the need for military science is being debated in some small nation states, oh-oh-oh-oh-oh, painfully, and it also gives rise to a heavy rod. Today, there was also a question of where the references were. Whether the aim of applied science is to be references or products, it is also being debated elsewhere in the world. One serious issue is, and apparently it must be accepted in science, that the Lord's Zoo is the richer it is. It's certainly not possible to hit everything with one rod. I'm just gonna name a few problems, or I'm gonna run out of time, and I'm not gonna make it past the introduction. One issue is the extent to which one institute must develop its own R &amp; D activities. Let me give you an example, deliberately showing us in a positive light and cursing others. Similar examples of Estonia could be shown in the opposite direction, but I do not deliberately do so. We're talking about a country university today. Mait Klaassen is immensely proud to have developed a veterinary centre with international teaching, international curricula, teaching in English and it can satisfy the needs of the three Baltic countries. Happily, Latvians and Lithuanians arrived and said that, well done, we are making similar centers for ourselves. When the question was asked that we already have it, you might be developing something else, they said they still wanted to do their own thing. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U95	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U96	So you could say with humor, no one's willing to give up anything. There was talk of methodology. Jürgen Ligi stressed how a very methodological approach has been over the years. However, the methodological approach has been to a large extent a bubble and I am immensely pleased that the different methodologies that have been developed have been ignored. For example, if the points were really taken into account only for books quoted internationally in English, I admired Toivo Maimets or Jaan Järvik, who wrote very powerful books that develop skills in Estonian. Another issue I want to mention is the humanitarian area that I promised to talk about, but has not yet spoken about. The point is that after Brexit, Europe was shocked at how little we know about our national identity. And not just Estonia, but the whole of Europe. National history, which is supposed to be the foundation of collective identity, is in the shadow of death and only the commercial side is left, how social sciences, different levels of society, or parties, if you want to promote their development and action plans. Some see the ideal of one factory standing in the middle of society and thousands of workers around it would work. The others' program is working to get us to run again as bare-legged boys in a raven yard. I'm telling you, the social sciences and the national sciences have been forgotten. We have a new ERM, we have a new national archive, but our history has ruled us in national archives and resources to find out everything there is. Our collective identity and our collective experience tend to evolve according to the experience of other countries. Even one of the leading Estonian statesmen has said that the Americans should be counted, explaining how the village society worked in the 19th century. He does not know that August Kitzberg, who lived seven kilometers away from it, wrote much better. I am pleased that the Prime Minister brought a human dimension to his report. In the meantime, it seemed that this might not be the case, because R &amp; D is important and seems to be more technological and economic-related. At the same time, I admit that the Prime Minister answered the questions in this regard. And, apparently, in order not to happen as it has been in the Riigikogu through the ages, so that science is not developed, but the influential fields of activity have tried to pull the blanket off each other, so it has been for years, the format should be expanded and the sciences that do not fall under the applied sciences and which have already been mentioned here by ladies and gentlemen. These are human-centred sciences. Maybe we could think about it together with Bacon, and maybe we should also think about the lucky index in order of countries and their sciences in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U97	On behalf of the Group of the Viktoria Ladynskaja Isamaa and Res Publica Union, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U98	The subject of the report is the Prime Minister's overview of the state of R &amp; D and government policy in this area. Unfortunately, we note that this report was a little late in the first place. The practice is that the report should have been in this hall last year. Secondly, it concerns last year's achievements and strategy, for which the previous Prime Minister should be responsible. As a member of the Committee on Culture, I dare say that the cooperation between universities and Estonian research institutions and entrepreneurs has been a central issue in 2015 and 2016 and that questions have been raised about the optimal organisation of the work of research institutions. One of the most outstanding events of last year's Committee on Culture was the 'Science as an engine for Estonia's development. III. Looking for the common ground. This was a very important debate. There is a need for mutual openness in order for societal and business problems to reach researchers and researchers' research achievements to be used in practical solutions. It has to be said that there are general tendencies in this area. The first trend, which has been particularly common among young people, is that of education or science at all, if you can make money without such efforts. I'm not going to go into it, but I'm sure you've heard questions in this hall, too, in style, about whether or not an expert should have the appropriate education. I think we should. Why did I start with the youth theme? Because it is linked to another important trend: unfortunately, all resources in Estonia, both underground and terrestrial, are limited. Human resources are also limited. The only thing we're not limited to is the brain resource and its use. One of our few opportunities to revive the Estonian economy is to pay enough attention to the Ministry of Education and Research. According to my vision, HTM is the main and strategically most important ministry in Estonia. If we develop the image that Estonian education is good and its opportunities are diverse and world-class, then there will be a third tendency, i.e. the "inventors' village" effect, where science and economics, especially entrepreneurship, operate and develop together. That is exactly what needs to be achieved. What kind of science is needed in Estonian entrepreneurship? Robert Kitt, Chairman of the Estonian Board of Swedbank, presented at a conference organised last year by the Committee on Culture, and stated that education and science at national level are aimed at sustainable economic development. There is also a specific term for this: cultural economics. And cultural economics is non-linear, i.e. that in the long term education and science should ensure the preservation of language and culture, while in the short term, it should be mainly a matter of material well-being. The ultimate goal of the Republic of Estonia is to preserve Estonian language and culture. A limited selection of jobs causes emigration and is the biggest threat to the sustainability of the Estonian state. Thus, from a hundred years perspective, it is more important to create cultural goods, but from a hundred days perspective, it is more important to have material well-being. We need to create an environment for positive development leaps in business and science and, preferably, their interaction to ensure the preservation and reproduction of culture and language. The IRL has always paid attention to education. This time too, there are a number of issues in the coalition agreement that are particularly important to us. We consider it necessary to increase the share of R &amp; D carried out on behalf of the private sector and in cooperation with the private sector. As stated in the agreement, we will develop proposals to stimulate business R &amp; D and to increase the involvement of private sector funds. It is also very important that we increase the scholarship of doctoral students in order to ensure smart growth in research and development. Of course, I hope that next year the Prime Minister will have more positive news and more knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U99	Krista Aru on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U100	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! Good guests! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Estonian Free Party, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for this presentation he presented to us for all this report and for the courage to report on the promotion of R &amp; D and innovation policies after such a short period of government! However, I would like to stress here that more, Mr Prime Minister, would have been waiting for the vision of a new government on which he wants to emphasise how national development programmes are to be used. One half of your report, which raised questions, was all about higher education and consolidation of research institutions. The Minister of Education and Science confirmed in the Committee on Culture that all proposals, except the addition of IT College, which has already been approved by the Treaty, will be retabled and renegotiated, with no further progress in the decisions taken by the Task Force. So here I ask you to clarify which is the right thing to say, either the Minister of Education and Research or the Prime Minister. But now a little bit more general. We have a very good R &amp; D strategy. These objectives are correct, the text is well written, and there has been an emphasis on one very important moment for the Estonian state that science is today the only or rather not the only, but at least the most important, factor that can ensure the rapid, necessary and human development of society. The human motive is firmly embedded in our scientific strategy, and I think it is very important. We know that many of the sub-objectives have been perfectly met because Estonian scientists have been very good, good, ambitious and very hardworking. The state, led by the Government of the Republic, has supported research and development and tried to put it first, but here it is. What, then, is lacking in the R &amp; D strategy, in its implementation and implementation, that we still have to use words like 'but', 'but' and others like that when we talk about it? In my opinion, the very simple answer is that the state has not been able to finance this area adequately. The figures also prove that the strategy contains the relevant numbers that we have not reached. That is one of the main reasons. However, it is not only the lack of money that is behind it. As Mr Helme said, the rational use of money always requires priorities, clear decisions, a very specific and long-term reference. In my opinion, the main reason is that Estonian society and Estonian science have grown apart. It is as if there have been two separate worlds, and there has been a lack of meaningful, meaningful and coherent cooperation between them based on value development. That's the main reason. One part of society is definitely the economy, the enterprise that we have talked about so much about. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U101	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U102	Thank you. If we try to move on quickly from here to here, we can immediately ask why this has happened. After all, the reason cannot be that the financing model comes from those times when our entire research and higher education system needed to break out of the Soviet situation and join the Western world, which we have achieved very well thanks to scientists and flexibility in general. That can't be the only reason, there have to be reasons. The reason behind all this is that there has been a separation, that on the one hand, science is like a well-developed one, and on the other, society is a lack of understanding. In the case of researchers, the same quotivity, the same score calculation, and the number of publications have always been supported. The weight of the scientist himself or the weight of the institution or group has been stressed, but the tasks society needs to carry out remain either secondary or fifth grade. This has been facilitated by our financing system so far. We have designed it on the basis of one criterion or another, but not in the light of the needs of society as a whole. Of course, this has led to science being buried under red tape. They spend an enormous amount of time proving that everything has been spent correctly with the euro. However, they cannot prove that the result has been what is desired and that it can be applied in society. Are we ready to change that? I'm sure we're ready to change that. In 2013, a new financing model was prepared by the Ministry of Education and Research. In 2016, a whole new financing concept was adopted in cooperation with the Estonian Research Council, the Ministry and the Academy. It takes into account and supports the development of top science, supports the development of a researcher who starts work, supports and develops the researcher's career model and creates the possibility that those who have learned, those who love their field, start contributing and want to contribute to Estonian society, also our economy, to help solve all the problems encountered by society. Through this, the whole society will develop, the confidence of the people will grow, and most importantly, the desire to live in Estonia will grow. An Estonian person, be it a scientist, a businessman, an entrepreneur or a landlord, is happy to organise his or her life and to help others in organising his or her life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U103	Under § 71 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act, a member of the Government of the Republic is entitled to make a statement. Please, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U104	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I would like to begin by thanking the law on the organisation of research and development, in particular § 10 (2), which gives the Prime Minister the opportunity to visit the Riigikogu at least once a year. If you allow me, this year could be an exception: at least once this could become at least twice. At the end of the year, the Prime Minister will certainly be ready to give a new overview and take a look back to 2017. In fact, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, I would like to thank all members of the Riigikogu for today's discussion and discussion! Of course, I would particularly like to thank the Committee on Culture and its Chairman for this preparatory session. I am pleased that all the political groups have spoken here and have spoken out their position, and I think that this is not of minor importance. I cannot conclude today's debate without what is always a mandatory but pleasant part of such final words. I thank all those people who have helped me to prepare this review. There have been many of them, they have been among academics, they have been among rectors, professors and doctors. I also thank members of the Riigikogu, such as professors who have helped me with their thoughts and, of course, members of the government! And without good civil servants, be they from the State Chancellery or the Ministry of Education and Research, they can't do it. Thank you and good luck!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U105	I will close this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U106	Our next item is the first reading of Bill 315 of the Amendment to the Health Insurance Act, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Free Party. Monika Haukanõmm, opening waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I handed over the draft law amending the Health Insurance Act exactly three months ago, on 17 October last year. With this amendment, we propose to change the procedure for paying outpatient special medical care visits and to exempt all disabled children under 19 years of age from the visit fee. According to the current Health Insurance Act, you must not charge a visit fee if you receive health care at the primary level, i.e. at a family doctor. If you look at a specialist medical care service, the law provides a list of cases in which you may not charge a visit fee. A visit fee may not be charged to insured persons in cases where outpatient healthcare is provided by a child under two years of age, where outpatient specialist medical care is provided to a pregnant woman, where the patient is transferred to inpatient care immediately after an outpatient visit or, fourthly and lastly, when the person is transferred to another healthcare facility. According to the Health Insurance Act, the visit fee is the cost to be borne by the insured person in addition to his/her own contribution, i.e. to receive health insurance benefits, the payment of which is not taken over by the Health Insurance Fund. It should be stressed here that the specialist medical care provider has the right to request a visit fee, not an obligation. This means that the health care provider may also not impose a visit fee. The Health Insurance Act provides for an outpatient visit fee of EUR 5. The health care provider may set a visit fee below the threshold, and may exempt more target groups than provided for in the law from paying the visit fee. Thus, according to the law, the request for a visit fee is left open for the rest of the groups, i.e. each health care provider can decide for himself who, and to what extent, the exemption or discount rate should be imposed. On the basis of the above, health care providers have set the visit fee in different ways: either by target groups such as children and pensioners, by rates or within certain periods of time, for example, so that the visit fee has to be paid once every three months or once upon repeated visits. Health care providers can therefore take account of specific circumstances and impose more favourable conditions for insured persons compared to the law. Here are some examples of the current situation. Tallinn City Government pays visit fees to hospitals belonging to Tallinn. The amount of the exemption from child visit fees in the 2016 budget was EUR 215000. The City Government of Tartu pays a visit fee to the University of Tartu Hospital for the children of its city at the age of 0 to 19 years. Some health care providers have set lower rates than the threshold for visits to children. For example, Ida-Viru Central Hospital has a visit fee of EUR 1 and 50 instead of EUR 5 for up to 17-year-olds; Narva Hospital has a visit fee of EUR 2 and 50 cents for up to 18-year-olds. However, some healthcare providers have exempted the patient from paying the visit fee on a diagnostic basis (e.g. dialysis treatment) or if the patient has been prescribed disability (Pärnu Hospital). The current law is flexible and leaves freedom of choice to service providers. However, we are in a situation where we treat our children, whom we already have little, unequally, because the obligation to pay or not to pay the visit fee depends on the place where the child lives and the place where the service is provided. I am absolutely certain and convinced that we must treat all children in a uniform and equal manner, regardless of where someone is registered or where they must receive the service. In accordance with the Constitution of our Republic and its § 28, everyone has the right to health protection. The Act stresses that people with disabilities are under the special care of the state and local authorities. In addition, the commentary of the Constitution states that it is not excluded that part-financing of health services should be left to the person, but that the amount of remuneration charged to the person for the service must ensure the economic availability of the service to the person. Our proposal is to exempt disabled children from the visit fee from the age of two. Children in this target group need services to a much greater extent than their peers. In addition, they have much higher extra costs due to special needs, trees that are not available to ordinary people. As of 2016, there are over 12000 children in Estonia who have been assigned the degree of disability. The reason for determining the most common trees is the so-called "other disability' or a composite disability. What's the other disability? Other disability is due to a child's illness or health problem. I bring some of the most common causes: asthma, health problems caused by birth trauma, epilepsy, diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders, etc. Therefore, these children are more in need of healthcare. The additional costs come from the fact that these families usually need more healthcare, more rehabilitation, medicines, aids and social services. Often disabled children are more in need of healthcare than ordinary children. On the other hand, families of children with disabilities are in a more difficult socio-economic situation, so a €5 visit fee may become an obstacle to the consumption of healthcare. In view of the above, it cannot be considered reasonable or justified for hospitals to earn additional income from services provided to disabled children by requiring a supplement from the parents of disabled children. Of course, we also considered alternative options. One option would be to partially compensate for this situation by the possibility of parents and also the right to apply to the local government, for example to apply for income support or also to receive additional social benefits under the conditions laid down in the Social Welfare Act. However, the family can contact the local government afterwards by making a request, i.e. when the cost has already been incurred. It is therefore not an operational solution in an unexpected situation. Nor is it of minor importance for the latter option that, by recovering the EUR 5 visit fee, we significantly increase the administrative burden on local authorities. However, this cannot be considered reasonable. Freeing children with severe and profound disabilities from the visit fee is a matter of principle. The state can show good will and understanding here. This is actually a very clear message: the concerns of parents of children with disabilities have been heard and understood. I'm going to prevent you from asking a few questions. I'm sure you want to know what it's gonna cost. Unfortunately, health statistics are not collected separately for visits of children with disabilities. Information is collected separately for all patients aged between 0 and 14 years and aged 15 years and over. No statistics on the fees paid shall be collected either. The visit fee is shown in the statistics together with the services charged. What are these paid services? A bed-day allowance in a hospital, which can be charged up to EUR 25 per case, or a bed-day allowance in an independent inpatient nursing care, where the daily fee is EUR 9 and 75 cents. It is a good example here that the Northern Estonian Regional Hospital has once again made an exception and released children under 18 years of age from these so-called extra charges, as well as people with disabilities and mental disorders. It can be assumed that the visit fee paid for children with disabilities represents a small part of the additional premium collected by companies, but it is unfortunately impossible to say the exact amount. In total, the visit fee and the bed-day fee for hospital network development plan hospitals account for 2 to 3% of the income received from the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, while for regional hospitals it is less than 1%. I have also heard about the calculations that it could be in the order of EUR 100000 per year, but unfortunately there are no fixed figures to be taken from. The budget of specialised medical care providers is therefore not significantly affected by the loss of the visit fee for disabled children, but also has a significant impact on the families of disabled children. In addition, this change also means political pressure on hospital councils to introduce exemptions and to make choices. On behalf of the Free Party Group, I hope that all political parties will be prepared to support the draft, all the more so as the change does not directly concern the state budget or the budget of our very critical health fund. The impact of the change on hospitals is limited, but the families of children with disabilities are large. It also ensures that children with disabilities who grow in a poor family have access to specialist medical care on the basis of need and not on the basis of their economic livelihood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U108	Any questions for the originator's waitress? No, it's not. Thank you, Monika Hawkhammer! Viktor Vassilyev will make a presentation on behalf of the Committee on Social Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U109	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this issue and decided that it was a good thing to argue with. The Commission decided to propose that the matter be put on the plenary agenda, that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at ten days, and that it decided to appoint Mr Viktor Vassiliev, or I, as rapporteur. All decisions, including the latter, were taken by consensus. There's nothing more to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U110	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. First reading of Bill 315 is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 31 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U111	The next item is the first reading of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act initiated by the Estonian Free Party Group, which strengthens parliamentary control. The opening waitress is Arthur Talvik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U112	Good Chairman! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Today you have before you at first reading draft law 313. The purpose or desire of this bill is to strengthen parliamentary supervision and the power of Parliament's committee of inquiry. This is due to specific practice, the work of the Tallinn Port of Port Research Committee. Indeed, the important witnesses or speakers whom we called before the Commission simply did not show up and stated that they were not interested in the work of our committee of inquiry as such. At present, § 23 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provides that a fine may be imposed for failure to appear or for failure to submit documents under the misdemeanour procedure. There have been several disputes about this punishment in the Riigikogu, the last of which in 2015. It has always come to the conclusion that, although such a fine is included in the current law, it is not actually feasible. This means that there is no judge of this punishment. The court may make a misdemeanor judgment, but the court wants it to be a pre-trial judge who will still settle the case. Thus, in fact, the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry does not have any mechanisms in place to force the important contributors to attend. In our proposal, that is to say, in this bill, we have introduced two completely new things: firstly, coercion and secondly, coercion. Forced money is a tool which, under current law, is not recorded in the criminal record. It's considered leverage. So, according to this bill, we would give the Committee of Inquiry the right to use the enforcement mechanism. But it could only be used for those who are important witnesses, i.e. whose statements are important, and who have repeatedly failed to show up or submit documents to the Committee of Inquiry. Examples of non-emergence can be found in almost all the committees of inquiry that have been carried out in the Riigikogu. A good example of the activities of the Tallinn Port Research Committee is how the key figures in this story, Allan Kiil and Ain Kaljurand, even after repeated invitations, announced through their lawyers that they would simply not show up. One lawyer even gave us some pretty condescending views on the Commission. Even if the penalty mechanism does not work, we have proposed that I stress through the court, that the committee of inquiry could also use the forced delivery mechanism. Now, two things are very important to increase Parliament's dignity. I have also heard what has been said here on the ground that Parliament has become a rubber stamp, a Parliament that has lost its dignity and pride. I have also heard much about our committees of inquiry being compared, for example, with the United States Senate or Congress committees of inquiry or standing committees, which have the right to investigate, and it is said that Congress committees of inquiry are being presented simply because they are so dignified. In fact, these speakers simply do not know that there are also a number of coercive and penal mechanisms in the United States Congress in order to ignore the demand to come before the Committee of Inquiry. Similarly, in the European Union, at least 14 national parliamentary committees have the right in many ways to either punish or influence people to come before a committee of inquiry. For some reason, the Estonian Parliament has abandoned this right or, let us say, there is a right, but it does not work. We think this is wrong. Our aim in this law, as I have already said, is to raise Parliament's dignity and my own pride. This does not give Parliament the right to exercise justice. Parliament does not take over the functions of the Court, as we have often been accused of, as if we wanted to do so with this draft. That is not the case, and that is not the intention we have. The committees of inquiry shall not deal directly with criminal matters. This means that the committees of inquiry are dealing with matters that are located in the grey zone with jock schemes, abuse of executive power and, more generally, matters of political culture. As a result of the work of the committee of inquiry, a report will be published which will make proposals, until then, so that laws or activities can be changed, so that Estonian society, especially the governance of the Estonian state, is more democratic. In short, I hope you have examined this draft and read the explanatory statement. I also hope that Parliament will support our desire to raise Parliament's dignity. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U113	Questions for the waitress. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable waitress! The report also said that in the case of the Tallinn Port Inquiry Committee, the key figures, led by Allan Kiil, simply announced through lawyers that they would not come and all. Do we also have the chronology that has not come to which committees and which questions? And what is maybe almost vital, can you explain to the hall what would happen in such a case in the United States, for example, in France, Germany or in countries close to us, even in Latvia and Lithuania?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U115	Chronology is completely there. Like the Research Committee of the Port of Tallinn, one key person did not come to the VEB Foundation Research Committee. Edgar Savisaar, the main character, did not show up at the tape scandal or the SIA Committee of Inquiry. There are other examples. In different countries, it is completely different how to say, influence or punish in such cases. In general, it is attempted to impose a fine in this case, in some places also in Estonian terms a method corresponding to the currency of coercion. The toughest measures go all the way to criminal sanctions. There have also been statements here that the Estonian Committee of Investigation does not issue statements under oath. The United States Senate Committee of Inquiry, for example, can testify without oaths, but if you give false statements, you can be punished with a fine of up to $10,000 or a term of imprisonment of up to five years. So the punishments are pretty high. I would also stress that we do not regard this as punishment, but rather as leverage. Sunni money is a matter in Estonia that is not in the criminal record, i.e. these people would not be entered, at least in case of coercion, even in the criminal register.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U116	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U117	Honourable waitress! First of all, there is the principle of separation of powers in Estonia. When I read the explanatory memorandum to this draft as a lawyer, it is clear from it that you want to give this committee a kind of dominance in Estonia, combining, on the one hand, the tasks of investigative bodies and the prosecutor's office, on the other hand, perhaps not within the framework of criminal proceedings, and, on the other hand, with the prosecution. I cannot quite imagine that the Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry will be bringing people in handcuffed, with a bang. How do you imagine all this? There will be a police car before the Riigikogu, where there will be a person, handcuffed, who will be brought to the committee of inquiry, whether that is the case or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U118	Thank you for your question. The idea that we are violating the principle of separation of powers is certainly not correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U119	Yes, it is!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U120	Paragraph 68 of the Constitution, I think, if I remember correctly, defines the functions of the Riigikogu. One of the obvious functions of the Riigikogu is parliamentary supervision. What the Committee of Inquiry is dealing with is parliamentary supervision. As I said in my speech, this results in a report, not a judgment. We do not understand the right to these people, but issue a report in which we propose amendments to one or another, until then that we can propose amendments to the law. Forced delivery is an extremely extreme method. There's money before that. Sentence is only the method to be applied in the final order. And it only concerns key witnesses of the subject under discussion, vital witnesses. We are not going to deliver every person or, I don't know, every politician by force. I am still convinced that the principle of separation of powers will certainly not be violated.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U121	Sorry, Riigikogu! Jaanus Marrand, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U122	Thank you! I have a question similar to that of Heljo Pikhofil. There's no other way to approach it. Different countries have different traditions and different legislative spaces. In fact, such a parliamentary committee of inquiry, where people are brought by coercion, certainly does not fit into the Estonian tradition, practice and legislative space. This does not increase democracy, nor does it increase the dignity of Parliament. It is certainly easy for very many people to see that you, as a fan of the committees of inquiry, clearly want to make the work of this committee very important. But in any case, this will lead to both an investigation and a trial, for which this Commission is not really intended. How do you even understand the difference between the conduct of the investigating committee and the principle of criminal investigation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U123	I have already said it several times, but once again, the work of the Committee of Inquiry is not justice. As a result of the work of the Committee on Inquiry, there will be a report which will make proposals for executive power, legislative power and proposals to change the overall political culture. Speaking of political tradition, do you really want to say that weakening the parliamentary work or deepening the status of the Riigikogu as a rubber stamp could be part of our political tradition? We're against it. Basically, we are looking for the strength to deepen our respect for Parliament as an institution. Respect doesn't come through that all people are brought here in handcuffs, that's, of course, a euthanized interpretation. If you read this bill very carefully, you will see that coercion is an extreme method used in extremely rare cases. It can be used with the help of a court, not with our decision here. The court shall decide whether or not it is justified to bring one or the other person here by coercion. This is not the decision of Parliament. We are not judges in this sense. Please understand this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U124	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U125	Thank you, President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! I fully agree with you on the role of Riigikogu and Riigikogu committees, including the role, dignity and influence of committees of inquiry, must be increased. But here the question arises as to whether we have already implemented all possible steps and methods, that we must begin to restrict constitutional rights of such importance in the form of coercion. My question is that, as drafters, you have signed up for the coercion with the help of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The justification in the Commission was that since it already exists there. Together with the big criminals and criminals, we put the Riigikogu commission, where the same thing is applied, in the same line as an extra row. How do you feel about that? It says here you're a fan of investigative committees, but in society you're also known as a representative of free society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U126	That's a good question. We are also major opponents of social overregulation. That is why we have found that there is no point in making another point of law, but we are taking advantage of the three existing points of law to which we would add these sentences. That was the goal, frankly. If this really strikes the eye, and if you see any other place that this amendment could go, I hope that, after this bill is in the process, you will make an amendment to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U127	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Artur, do you think there is any way that this bill could be developed creatively? Why only punish those who have to come to the Commission? There are other experiences in the world. In Brazil, for example, there is a huge fine if a person does not come to the election. In the Latvian Seim, I saw the members of the Seim sign in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I asked them what they'd sign there. It turned out that if they didn't sign, that means they weren't there, and then they'd be cut off. Looking at the present hall, you could say that it might have some kind of refreshing effect on society. Both voters and members of the Riigikogu will have to choose additional responsibilities and others will have to sit in this Chamber. If you don't sit down, have them be brought here by court.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U129	Yeah, that was a nice comparison. There is also a sitting fee in the European Parliament. As far as I can remember in Estonia before the war, there was also a hearing fee, so if you didn't come to the hearing, you didn't get the fee. Such methods, so-called coercive mechanisms, have also been used in the case of Members of Parliament. But once again, our coercive mechanisms are extreme and they will go into action if the Commission's action is significantly hindered: if there are no statements, there will be no arrival or there will be no documents. They are not everyday instruments, they are only used in extreme cases. There were still a lot of people in our committee, too, who did not see the problem of being there. Only three people had problems, two of them never showed up. I would like to stress once again that compulsory transport can only be implemented by judgment. It is not the case that Parliament's committee of inquiry itself decides that we are now going to twist this or the other hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U130	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U131	Thank you. Good waitress! My attention was also drawn to coercion. A number of committees were listed here, such as an expert body, a prosecutor's office, a court. To which institution of this list is the Riigikogu's committee of inquiry closest to the court, the institution of expertise or the prosecutor's office in terms of the proposed draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U132	The Riigikogu Committee of Inquiry is not close to any of them. Our committee's work is a mechanism of parliamentary supervision. No one else can exercise parliamentary supervision; it can only be carried out by Parliament. And that's it. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-01-17_U133	Honourable Riigikogu! It's 14 seconds till the end of working hours. Parliamentary supervision by way of coercion can be further discussed tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 13 a.m.
