ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 44 members of the Riigikogu are present. The Question Hour includes Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu. I give the honourable members of the Riigikogu the opportunity to submit one further question, just as well as one person from the entire hall, it can be submitted by the registered member yesterday. Let me remind you that there's one minute to ask, and I'll be able to do it in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U2	Let's go! The first questioner is Martin Helme, a question for Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U3	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good Prime Minister! Last week we were exposed to the problem of the security of ID cards and the question arose as to whether e-elections could be organised in this situation. The Republic Election Commission last week decided that it could, but the State Information System Authority has expressed doubts about its security and allegedly made a recommendation not to organise e-elections. My first question is: is it true that the National Information System Authority believes it would be reasonable to cancel e-elections this time? Was such a recommendation given to the government? Secondly, which one of you thinks is more competent in the IT field to make such a decision, whether the RIA or the Republic Election Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U4	Thank you, Reverend Asker! Honourable Riigikogu! I'll start with the question of security. Of course, I congratulate the Estonian authorities: there was a very rapid response, very professional inter-agency cooperation, in order to clarify as soon as possible the likelihood of this security risk, to clarify where this security risk is, and to provide specific answers to the Estonian public as well. In my opinion, this has been done operationally, professionally, in a very serious analysis and in cooperation between the authorities. You had a number of questions. Maybe I'll start at the end of your question, which one is the most important advisor, either the State Information System Authority or the Republic Election Commission. Well, that is what I think the Riigikogu itself has said, and this is where the legislator has asked for it. The legislator has laid down this in very specific terms. Paragraph 12 (2) (4) of the Local Government Council Election Act states that the conduct of e-elections in municipal elections is the competence of the Election Commission of the Republic. They'll make the final decision. On the RIA, I say that there has certainly been no official recommendation to cancel e-elections. That there have been different considerations, but it's true.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U5	Martin Helme, please specify the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U6	Thank you. Let's continue with these different considerations. When this topic was discussed at the government meeting in which it was discussed, it lasted for a very long time, the matter was dealt with thoroughly and there were certainly different experts there, was the risk assessment linked to the possibility that Russian special services or semi-state hackers would intervene in the Estonian elections? Was it discussed what the main components of such a risk could be and how it would be avoided? Has all this been appreciated? And how do you personally assess whether, as a country, we have the right to take this risk and to conduct e-elections in a month's time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U7	Thank you. First of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to thank you for the recognition that was given to the government. You said the government hearing was thorough. Yes, it was. It was a very busy debate, and the government gathered twice for this meeting. It was on Monday and this topic was discussed for several hours. You said there were definitely different specialists. It was, of course, a joint debate between very different authorities and also a joint decision. Main ones represented: State Information System Authority, Police and Border Guard Board, of course, as well as other authorities who gave an overview and thus a helping hand. If we come up with a third aspect on your question of these potential risks, I can assure you that we have dealt with these assessments. We dealt with them in a very broad way during these meetings and tried to bring all possible risks to the table. But it must be acknowledged and acknowledged that these risks certainly did not outweigh the possibility of authentication on the basis of the full ID card and of ending signing with the ID card. On the contrary, the decision was that with ID-cards and e-services we would go on and issue new ID-cards. The same applies to e-residency. That position was in common. I will come to the elections once more, and I repeat that the conduct of the elections is the competence of the electoral committee in accordance with Article 12 (2) (4) of the Local Council Election Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U8	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Very honourable Prime Minister! Certainly an e-state is not just a sequence of numbers for us and internationally. I think that Estonia is one of the unique places where society has agreed to develop the new services needed by society as a whole in an innovative way. But do you agree with those experts who have expressed the opinion that a paper vote may at one point be as vulnerable as the e-choice that caused much fuss? Do you share the opinion of these experts?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U10	Thank you. First of all, the general tone of your question. I certainly agree that different e-services are nothing unique in Estonian society. On the contrary, it is a daily practice, a daily practice. It is based very strongly on the trust of Estonian residents, Estonian society, whether it be e-medicine, e-prescriptions, e-school, e-banking or telecommittees. And it is also based on the fact that we have always kept these services open. Openness and trust are, in my opinion, the principles that have been the most important in this case, too, in order to resolve this issue. I would also like very much to congratulate the private sector, which has worked very well with us over the last week. First, the banking sector. We know that a lot of e-services are linked to the banking sector. I met personally with representatives of the Banking Association and thanks to them for going forward with these services. The other one's at the telecoms. I know Minister Urve Palo has met them. Cooperation and exchange of information have been very effective. You referred to the opinion of the experts on the paper vote. I don't know what experts you're referring to. I know that a lot of people in Estonia want to vote on the e-road, but there are even more people who want to go to the polling district on election day or in primary elections and vote on the traditional route, to state their support on paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U12	The next speaker is the Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps, asking Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U13	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Minister of Education and Science! My question concerns your proposal to select children between upper secondary schools and vocational schools on the basis of average grades. You can guess what kind of problem you're trying to solve. Indeed, less than half of the students, or 46%, go to vocational schools, it is below the OECD and the European Union average. At the same time, it is primary schools that have taken the trend to use more designing assessments, which are more flexible than five-ball system assessments, as well as letter assessments. Schools are working hard to develop more internal motivation to learn and less to scare-inspire them with numerical grades. My question is: should primary schools give up the introduction of a design assessment, because it is important to get the highest average numerical grade possible at the end of school?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U14	Thank you, good questioner, for a very good question. This has been a very important topic not only in the last week, but actually for about 20 years. To be more specific, it's gonna be longer. And not only the subject of grades, but also the way we see our education distribution, which is the age at which our young people are willing to make their choices. But maybe I'll take one step back to that assessment right now, and I note that, unfortunately, today we have one in three young people with no professional qualifications, obtained either from a vocational school or from a university of higher education. This is a very serious problem. If we analyse every year what are the bottlenecks in education, no one doubts that the increase in the number of young adults without education and vocational training is one in three is a serious concern. Another bottleneck we all admit is that we come to a vocational school at the age of 25 or even older. In general, we already have a very good reputation for vocational schools. So, actually, 15 years old isn't ready to make choices. Life shows that a person is willing to make that choice when he is about 25. Then they'd love to learn and tell their children to go to vocational school, and it was great. As regards evaluation and this proposal, the Ministry of Education and Research came up with a proposal that we also presented to the government office to take into account, of course, not only the average grade. The proposal includes not only an average grade but also that there will be no final exams at the end of comprehensive school. Instead, a national upper secondary school entrance exam would be harmonised, which could be used to check, like PISA and other tests, for example, problem-solving skills, logical thinking ability and everything else. This base would, of course, be much, much wider than the average grade.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U15	Thank you. Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U16	Thank you. This OECD report specifically highlighted that our vocational schools do not contribute enough to lifelong learning. On average, 71% of OECD countries have students over the age of 25; we only have 49%. It is known that in several European countries children are indeed selected in different educational directions, but this is done by means of various tests, not by reference to the average grade. Did you have that option on your desk or what options were you discussing?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U17	Thank you. These options are all still on the table. This proposal, which sparked excitement and debate in society, was one of the proposals. Now, a designing assessment or that schools might at all be able to opt out of evaluation. I am a fiery supporter of school autonomy. Of course, convergence school is important and we support the fact that we have a national curriculum, a national framework and supervision. The miracle of Estonian education is that we have a very good and uniformly high level, while at the same time schools have great decision-making powers. It does cause parents a certain frustration from time to time, just when children change schools. One school values the same way, takes into account some indicators, the other. It is a freedom for you to put out a grade and not to give a grade, you can only take into account the individual development of a child in the form of a grade, not for example that he or she is a three or a four-year-old compared to the rest of the class. That freedom will remain. The idea of our proposal was to start or, in fact, to continue the discussion with employers has been coming up with this proposal almost every year for 20 years, whether we currently need national measures to solve two problems. We have too many young adults without preparation and qualifications, and the figures have not improved significantly. The second and very serious question is that when young people go to upper secondary school, perhaps not to upper secondary school with an interesting study course, it is not certain that they will go on to higher education. This great freedom actually works against them, so only 10% of upper secondary school graduates go on to study in vocational schools. So if a young person's studies are not directed towards a higher education institution, he or she will rather remain uneducated and come to the subject in ten years' time. This is probably not the best choice. But there are ways to convince people to make a decision based on their own interests and individual abilities. The basis is not just an average grade, only an upper secondary school entrance exam. There are many other options, and we will certainly consider them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U18	Maris Lauri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U19	Thank you. Good minister! Listening to you now, it seems that this is a completely different matter than the proposal that came out of the open at the beginning. Having also been in your profession and seen the same problems as the high dropout rate, school leaving without a job and, therefore, the difficult problems in finding a job, I have this question. Have you given up sharing young people on an average basis now? I am just emphasising this middle grade distribution. Are you prepared to approach this issue as a matter of substance and involving all interested parties rather than creating frustration, which was actually filled with all reactions in the press?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U20	Thank you, good questioner! As you rightly pointed out, you have been in this office, and also in another office, where you were in the centre of attention. I guess you also saw that you proposed one solution, but in society there was a debate about another solution. The proposal we offered our office was complex. Its content was, in particular, that all pupils in primary schools must continue to learn that the obligation to study will apply until the age of 18. We had proposed a whole package of measures with extended curricula and a separate funding system for vocational education, which also provides advice. We are also talking about the current trend of going to an adult upper secondary school, but 37 to 38% fall out of it very quickly. So that's not the solution. It is a comprehensive package of measures, but of course there was such an exciting, interesting and discussion-creating topic as average grade. But in addition to this 3.75, our proposals were made in line with the best wishes of the Ministry of Education and Research to replace the final exams with the entrance exams. Students have long asked why you put an obstacle on us when we finish school, demand a more uniform level of admission. If we do not want to use the word 'threat', let us say that this is the national minimum that must be acquired from the curriculum. What other solutions are there? A good questioner, as we know very well, is now putting the first positive grade when 50% of the maximum is reached. We can suggest that a positive grade is not given at the upper secondary school at a rate of 1%, as is unfortunately currently the case, but that 20%, perhaps 40%, is required for example. The principle that different countries derive from is basically the same: it must be known that this is precisely our national minimum when entering a higher education institution, where the following curriculum needs to be completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U21	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U22	Question to Prime Minister Jüri Ratas. Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U23	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! In my opinion and in the view of the whole Free Party, the government office is a disgraceful thing, one might say. I mean, most of your ministers are involved, if you could say so, in a public fraud scheme: being ministers, they are running for local government election. We all know that the law does not allow the Minister to participate in the work of the council. How have you allowed the members of your office to participate in such a scheme and mock the people?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U24	Thank you, good questioner! I'm sure the members of the government will not participate in any strange scheme, as you say. On the contrary, they have been very honest. I have looked at the statements made by the various members of the government, they have been very specific and clear. The general principle is that a politician can stand as a candidate in elections, whether they are Riigikogu elections, local elections or European elections. It's legal, it's not forbidden in any way. There are indeed those members of the government who have said that they are running for party support in order to defend certain principles and positions in one, another or third government and to implement something. And there are also those members of the government who have made it very clear that if they are to succeed and receive strong support from the local community, then a choice must be made and the local government must become mayor, for example. I will be honest with you that I have read such a statement with serious concern on the one hand, but on the other hand, such a statement by the Minister gives joy to his courage and honesty. Let me give you an example. Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Kadri Simson has said that if the Central Party wins the elections in Pärnu, he and the Central Party will have to find a new Minister of Economic Affairs because he will become mayor in Pärnu. On the one hand, the government loses a very strong and capable minister, on the other hand, it can be said that the summer capital Pärnu will become a very capable mayor. I think clarity is important here. There will certainly be no participation in any schemes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U25	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U26	Thank you. Good Prime Minister, I would like to remind you that in the election of local governments, city leaders are not elected. The kind of thing that the minister is going to be mayor isn't going to be decided during the election. Secondly, I would like to remind you that Estonia is currently under the Presidency and therefore a very busy period. However, participation in campaigns also means the use of time resources for campaigns. Did you not tell your ministers that, listen, let us skip these elections now, and even if you support your political parties now, we will work on behalf of the Presidency?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U27	Thank you. I assure you that the government and 1300 Estonian officials are working every hour to ensure that the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union succeeds. I see the serious and professional attitude of members of the government. I think you'll notice that, too. We've been in the government a long time, a few months ago, agreed that all the meetings of the cabinet of the Government of the Republic will begin with the last week's review and a forward-looking, next week's review. Ministers will give an overview of how the substantive work has gone. The Presidency is, I assure you, very hard-working and very responsible. It is true, of course, as you said when you asked your question, that a fee should be paid if you participate in the election campaign. We don't see ministers campaigning every day, we see them doing their main job. Of course, Estonia's first presidency is unique to us. It is now mid-September, a few months have passed and it can be said that half of the Estonian Presidency will soon be over. We have received feedback and it has been very positive. Feedback shows that the Estonian Presidency has taken the Presidency very seriously. Only a few days ago, I had the opportunity to have a conversation with the High Representative for Foreign Affairs of the European Union, Federica Mogherin, who also confirmed that the Presidency was in good shape and that our members of the government were working hard. As far as I know, next week there will be new ministerial meetings in Tallinn, and there have been other ministerial meetings this week. So you don't have to be afraid of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U28	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U29	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! You have entered a very active campaign without being a candidate. Once you're in our white room, once with a jacket, once you're not, you're gonna be on YouTube and other channels. Personally, I do not consider it right that ministers and members of the Riigikogu apply for the election of local government. This raises the big question of fair use of the resource. Community candidates also have fewer opportunities to work politically within the party. As Prime Minister, how many instructions have you given so that ministers do not use public resources? And how do you guarantee that local representatives will also succeed in the elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U30	I am absolutely convinced that a responsible government member and a member of the Riigikogu have no idea of using public resources to advertise their party politically. It's unthinkable! How do you guarantee that? In my opinion, Estonia has established a very strong and transparent system to control such violations. If any violation has come to light, parties have had to pay a pretty salty price for it, and certainly rightly so. You also appointed members of the Riigikogu. It is not for me, as a representative of the government, to say, but the members of the Riigikogu have a free opportunity to apply legally and, if elected, to go to work on the council. The title of your question is about decoy ducks, but I can't upset the members of the Riigikogu. It is the decision of each person whether he sees the possibilities of time and feels willing to deal with the issues of local governments as well. And if a person knows this will and gets elected to a local government council, then I am absolutely convinced that the 101 members of the honourable Riigikogu do this work just as seriously, with the same commitment and with the same heart as they do in this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U31	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U32	A question for the Minister of Education and Science, Mailis Reps. Reply to Arno Bridge. [[In the Laughing Hall.]] Asks Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U33	I'd like to know something from the minister first, then I'll answer. But thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question, Minister for Education, is this: will the Ministry of Education have plans for the next academic year, which small rural schools, let us say, will last? What schools do we foresee that they will not be able to continue to exist? The plans for administrative reform are all in place from a long time ago, but are there also plans for specific educational establishments, schools? On the spot, voters often ask what happens to our little school or what happens to that neighboring school.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U34	Good questioner! First of all, we've agreed decades ago that schools are up to the schoolkeeper. Most schools are decided by local authorities. What the country is doing and what is quite unique compared to the Nordic countries, for example, is that we have, like, a little shared responsibility. The state allocates the salaries of teachers as well as certain other resources, such as textbooks and workbooks, on a targeted basis, but it is generally up to the local government to decide how the work of schools is organised accurately. What can we do on the side of the Ministry of Education, or on the side of the state, so that small schools can also provide a good and very good education? We have valid coefficients that support smaller schools. If the classes remain very small, there is an opportunity to bring out children with special needs. But if your voters ask, for example, in South-Estonia or South-East Estonia, whether one or the other school remains or not, then I am sad to say to you that such a table cannot be held directly by the Ministry of Education. It's a local council decision. But, of course, we have always analysed the situation during the administrative reform. When local governments started negotiating voluntary mergers, most municipalities described the local educational landscape very precisely: which schools, which conditions, which recreational schools exist. We have constantly received enquiries throughout this process, what are the coefficients, how long they apply, how harmonisation takes place. So there is interest. But which schools decide, for example, by 1 March, that next year they will close their doors, which will certainly depend only on the local council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U35	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U36	Thank you. Dear Minister, Do not be so modest when talking about the influence of the ministry on the local government, or schoolkeeper. Any financing decisions and other policy decisions may at some point lead to the disappearance of small school. But I very much hope that this principle, that basic schools must be as close to home as possible, will remain valid throughout Estonia. But my question comes from the last question. Some of the educators have said that this medium rating condition, which you invented and which as an idea began to fly, can create quite a social stratification and inhibit the development of personalities. Do you agree with them or do you answer them? It is not very pleasant for a young person to travel to a vocational education centre even further away from the upper secondary school in the county.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U37	Thank you. As many as there are different scientists, there are also different opinions. Of course, I agree with a lot of educators, but with some of the educators, I'd be happy to argue, for example, about the differences between boys and girls. It's always a very interesting discussion, which started over and over again in the last week. When will anyone wake up, when will someone be ready? Today we have already addressed the subject of evaluation and perhaps the most important moments should be summarised. This proposal for an average grade was, of course, only part of the large package proposed by the Ministry of Education to address the issue of how to reduce the proportion of young people who do not have any qualifications. Unfortunately, there are more each year: a whole third of young people in the cohort each year who have not studied at a vocational school, not at a university of applied sciences, not at a university. They are unskilled and want to enter the labour market as such. All our analyses show that this is a big problem. They'll start their education later, but it's going on for a very, very long time. So if we look at the opportunities for vocational education, we will see that we are certainly not using this system enough. Of course, Tartu is an exception here, as are the vocational schools in Tallinn, where most disciplines already have a competition. This interest is very high. But at the same time, there are vocational schools or specialties in the regions, where we probably need to look together, which are the reasons for the lukewarm interest. Are we at risk of impeding personal development now? Unfortunately, yes, and certainly with grades you can do so, you can reduce your experience. We must work together to ensure that schools also provide teachers with new skills to look at each young person separately, through continuous retraining and further training. It is necessary that the grade, whether it is an average grade or some kind of feedback from the school, does not reduce the development potential of anyone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U38	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U39	Thank you. I'm gonna ask you about high school. Does the Ministry of Education and the Government now have a fully clear picture of what upper secondary schools remain and what state secondary schools will be set up? That's what they're asking about. In our area there are questionable issues with Vastseliina and Antsla upper secondary schools, for example.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U40	Good questioner! Indeed, the debate has been on this issue since the first state secondary schools began to be born. Just think about how many years ago the Viljandi Gymnasium opened its doors! This process has been intensive and there has been a very lively debate in every region in which the state gymnasium is born and every year more. It is now very interesting to observe the debate in Saaremaa and also in Rakvere, whether or not they are ready to change the school network, as well as in Harjumaa and Tallinn. In the situation where state secondary schools have been created in South-East Estonia, of course, there is a legitimate question, which still becomes Vastselina and Antsla, and not only in the context of local elections. This is also very important in terms of education policy. The previous questioner indicated that if you have to go further to a vocational education centre and your upper secondary school is closer, this is the main reason why it is easier to go to a local upper secondary school, even if this decision is not firmly focused on further higher education. Going away from home means a double decision: first you have to make a professional choice and then you have to make the bold decision that you are going farther away from home. Vocational education centres, however, do not offer all the specialties in each region. We've got a lot of state-of-the-art vocational schools. What's the answer today? We are working on the development of state secondary schools. To that end, we have our own measures and we have not stopped that. We have half a million in the budget to support the rest of the maal upper secondary schools. What will the fate of each upper secondary school be, but it is mainly up to local councils, the people who live on the ground. However, local upper secondary schools can remain very small. If there are still five or seven students, it is likely that the municipality will close the upper secondary school and have more decisions every year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U41	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U42	Answers Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, asks Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U43	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Prime Minister! The question is short and specific and allows for the same answer. As Prime Minister, do you support or oppose giving up on those who continue to attend Russian-language upper secondary school education? Do you support further exceptions to the transition to Estonian-language education in our Russian-language upper secondary schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U44	Thank you. As a member of the Riigikogu wished, there will be a very short reply. I am doing everything to do this, and I very much support that all young people who graduate from upper secondary school in Estonia speak Estonian better in order to improve the quality of teaching the Estonian language to them. I certainly consider all this to be the right thing to do, because this will enable them to make the most of their competitiveness in the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U45	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U46	Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer to my question as to whether or not you would support the granting of derogations. My second question is whether, as Prime Minister, you will support giving Estonian citizenship to people who do not know the Estonian Constitution and do not take the language examination.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U47	Thank you. First of all, we know that the current coalition will not change the foundations of citizenship policy. You know it! You have a long-term political career and you also know that the Centre Party has really said that it would be very good to debate before the next Riigikogu elections on the subject, which has also been brought to our attention by several international organisations. It is that we have such a large number of grey passport holders, of stateless people, and that a solution must be found. I think that political debates on how to solve this concern could be very serious in 2018. We know that there are about 80000 inhabitants in Estonia with a grey passport. I certainly do not support the idea that all of them should be granted Estonian citizenship and Estonian passport. I also do not support the fact that a person who does not confirm that he respects the constitutional order of the Estonian state and is subject to the laws of the Estonian state may be a patriot of the Estonian state. But it is worth considering these questions. What will be the specific thresholds? I think it is very good that political parties start discussing this subject before the next Riigikogu elections.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U48	Yoko Alender, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U49	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! The Human Development Report and Praxis integration monitoring recommend a single Estonian kindergarten in order to stop selecting children in parallel worlds. As Prime Minister, do you support the transition to a single Estonian education starting in a single Estonian-language kindergarten, or do you think that we should continue to do a disservice to the Russian-speaking population like the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U50	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank Keit Pentus-Rosimate for raising a subject as specific as the 'Government Policy'. This will specifically set out what to answer you about! As regards kindergartens, I will also respond briefly, as the author of this question asked. In all teaching of the Estonian language, I think we should not only consider the third stage of upper secondary school, not even of primary school, but we should also strive to ensure that there is as good as possible, high-quality teaching of the Estonian language in kindergartens. I'm sure I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U51	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U52	The Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps answers the question asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! We have already talked about vocational education and its importance here today, but in the spring the Riigikogu discussed it as an important national issue. In addition to many good things, there were also very worrying and critical tones. One of the concerns was the public training order, which the VET managers claimed to be falling all the time. This is particularly drastic in declining disciplines that provide craft skills. It was argued that regional and sectoral needs were not adequately taken into account when designing training orders. Is this situation now improving and how do you assess the preparation of a national training order?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U54	Thank you, good questioner! If the question had not been put on such a broad topic, you might even think that I have agreed with the opposition on a very good issue. Indeed, the Ministry of Education is currently introducing new vocational education funding from the new year, in cooperation with schools, to address this particular bottleneck. The training order is, of course, very important. Schools, together with local employers and, if necessary, with all-Estonian employers and, of course, with experts, will also review at national level which specializations could be needed in, for example, three years or five years' time. Accordingly, any order shall be increased or reduced. What, though, has been the problem with schools? The concern is that, in a very similar way to the science collectives, for example, we have not been able to create such a stable base in our 26 years of independence. Schools change, they develop a specialty, they find masters and they're proud of something, but we're gonna say, listen, in three years' time, we don't need these specialists. Take these masters and exchange for the others! Such instability, which in some cases is inevitable, makes the life of schools very difficult. As a result, we are now one by one agreeing with schools on the same system that exists in higher education: there must be base money, of course, with sectoral responsibility, but there will be quality money, results money, which will lead schools in a softer, clearer and better direction. As far as crafts are concerned, unfortunately, we have taken two steps backwards from the OSKA report. There were no major cuts, but the message in the OSKA report that this area was shrinking was very strong.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U55	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'll take it from here. The VET network is a very good basis for realising our lifelong learning. How well can we make use of it in a centralised and necessary way to the state through the current national training order? There have been a lot of critical notes from the educational institutions themselves, and I think rightly so. It is precisely in the sense that there are many who decide and guide it, such as Innove and the unemployment fund. Do you think it's optimal to use?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U57	Thank you, good questioner! There are several aspects to the game. First of all, when we talk about the vocational education school network, where the vocational schools are, all the counties are represented. The exception is Harjumaa, which is more concentrated on Tallinn. In general, however, there are opportunities and access to education. There's no doubt the Baas exist, so are the masters for the job now. And with this new model, we will add opportunities to implement support measures, to strengthen staff, and to raise wages. To do so, we need more than 3.5 million, and we will find these resources. We're actually creating these possibilities. The situation has improved with regard to adult education. Adult education activities have increased, but yes, the capacity of vocational schools is actually much greater than we can take advantage of now. One area of activity is that we should develop cooperation with the unemployment fund one centimeter by one centimeter. At present, the unemployment fund and vocational education live in parallel worlds, and if we channel funds through the unemployment fund and on the basis of competition, we will not take advantage of all the possibilities of vocational education that the state and the taxpayer have created Another very important issue is certainly that a large part of support for adults is based on project-based funding. It is a pleasure to note that we have a wide range of initiatives to provide education. At times, however, employers' feedback is such that we could actually make better use of this competence, which is few in Estonia. What are the odds? First of all, we will strengthen vocational training institutions. Hopefully, with the new funding scheme, we will achieve this. We will also continue to work vigorously with the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U58	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U59	Thank you, good Chairman. Good minister! I have one specific question and one broader question. Lääne-Viru University of Applied Sciences is well invested. Can you briefly tell us what the future of this educational establishment is? The second question is that the group has just met with the Minister of Public Administration. I understand that there has been a debate in the study that some regional vocational schools could be managed by local authorities. Why has this issue risen, and how will the final decision be reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U60	Good questioner, you raised two very broad issues in two minutes. I'll start with the second question. The subject was raised because the Ministry of Finance, or the Ministry of Administration, has proposed this. The Ministry of Education has sent a signal through both official and informal channels that we are not prepared to municipalise the secondary level before or even to discuss it until we have reached the end of our action. The measure ends in 2023. Then we can jointly analyse whether state secondary schools are optimal, whether they have started to cooperate with vocational training institutions. In the current situation, we must certainly not move one way or the other, which would give a very wrong signal. As far as Mõdrik, or Lääne-Virumaa University of Higher Education, is concerned, this situation is very clear: it is still included in the consolidation plan. The question is whether the school will continue to develop as a college at Tallinn University to give it a better input. Indeed, it has been invested, the school is popular, there are many students. At the same time, the University of Tallinn has its own questions in this regard, including the development of Rakvere College. So there's a lot of knots. What I can still answer in these few seconds is that we will have another major meeting on these issues by 30 October. This is precisely because then a few weeks have passed since this politically most interesting topic, the elections, and the representatives of the College, the Ministry and local councils had the right time to reunite. By then, the situation has changed, the municipalities have joined, and we can discuss together what we want on the ground and how we can support regional higher education by our country. It is also a question of regional higher education.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U61	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U62	Prime Minister Jüri Ratas will be asked by Jüri Adams. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U63	Mr. Prime Minister! The Azerbaijani political regime used the bribery of European Union politicians and officials to achieve its objectives. I knew that a long time ago. Andres Herkel was the source whose writings and other information were generally well known in Estonia. I cannot imagine that the higher officials of the Estonian state at the time did not pay attention to his warnings. Here's my question. Currently, the Presidency of the European Union is the task of Estonia. It would be good to hear your assurance that, in the course of this or in some other way, you will give an overview of what is now known, as well as the following measures in Estonia, and raise the question of how the European Union as a whole would be exempt from such matters in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U64	Thank you. First of all, the events you mentioned, during which money was also laundered through Estonia and paid to politicians and other opinion leaders for certain services, took place between 2012 and 2014 according to the investigative press. It is quite difficult for me to say something afterwards about the activities of the government or other institutions of the country at the time. What I know is that the Financial Supervision Authority did everything in its power to contain this kind of thing at one point, and at one point they proactively tracked down and prevented it. When it comes to the activities of your good benchmate, Mr Herkel, in this area, it is certainly his view that the policy of the European Union and the Council of Europe must not be patronising, particularly in human rights and democracy matters, very right. I, of course, deplore corruption, and the position of the Estonian state is certainly completely negative. There should be no place in politics for money-buying positions, for the policies we buy.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U65	George Adams, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U66	As far as the officials at the time are concerned, both the officials of the Financial Supervision Authority and the finance ministers are likely to be charged with malicious negligence, perhaps also with the Prime Minister. We're not arguing about this. My main question was a different one. Does your answer really have to be understood in such a way that you do not take advantage of this year and of this opportunity to give the European Union such an important boost, based on our experience, so that such things cannot happen again, at least in such a way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U67	Thank you. Certainly, Estonia will take advantage of this Presidency in the best sense. What is the main objective that I have always emphasised in bilateral meetings with other leaders of the European Union, be they presidents or prime ministers? This is the same thing that you have pointed out: the unity of the European Union, the greater security of the European Union. These are, of course, keywords, and Estonia does not expect questions in this respect, but shares its experiences, shares its views at very different levels. That's for sure!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U68	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! First of all, I would like to thank my benchmate, who really wanted to ask you this question. As Prime Minister, you are the public face of the Estonian state. These things certainly happened much earlier, but you spoke with great enthusiasm earlier about how well the Presidency was going. It's going so well that ministers don't have time for a local election campaign. However, our question is focused on the extent to which Estonia has been able to represent the anti-corruption and value-based attitude during the Presidency and bring these issues to the European Union's discussion tables. And what can we learn from all of this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U70	Thank you. A clear, concrete approach to the fact that less corruption has been the subject of the various meetings of the Estonian Presidency. Just one example. When we discussed the issue of the Eastern Partnership at the level of Justice Ministers in Tallinn, the subject of corruption was on the table there. All cyber security, security, the fight against corruption, the fight against various frauds, the problems with posted workers, all of which have been firmly on the table. I personally had a phone call with the French President a few days ago. I thank you for listening carefully and actively thinking along here, but this issue has indeed been very clear and prioritised during the Estonian Presidency. After all, security and defence are not just one of the priorities of our Presidency. It's been pointed out separately and very clearly on the table.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U72	Honourable Riigikogu, one member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask another question to a member of the government. Please appoint a minister and ask a question. Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U73	Thank you, good Chairman. Good Prime Minister! I will ask the question of the follow-up to the last question. Has the Presidency of the European Union had the same debate on the money laundering scheme in Azerbaijan on the table in very specific terms?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U74	Thank you. First of all, the Estonian Presidency of the European Union to illuminate it through the wider prism. Estonia has set four very important priorities for the Presidency. Of course, the work of the Presidency is that these areas or topics that have been spoken before the Estonian Presidency are also on our table. One example is the issue of migration, where there are very sharp differences in positions. Finding a balance between the various European countries, whether large or small, in the north or in the south, requires a smart consensus policy and a common role to be sought. However, I now come specifically to this same priority, i.e. security and defence policy. I am thinking in particular of the security associated with the fight against corruption, the transparency and openness of the policy, certainly also with what is happening in social media. And, of course, the cyber defence aspect. If you are asking if these items are on the table, yes, is on the table. If you ask whether the particular case your good groupmate asked about has been raised and whether Estonia is ready to share this experience, yes, we are certainly prepared to share it. I am absolutely convinced that the members of the Government of the Republic of Estonia will also visit Azerbaijan to raise this issue there. So that will certainly be the focus of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U75	Thank you, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas, Minister of Education and Science Mailis Reps and Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U76	Honourable Riigikogu! Hello to those who haven't seen yet today! Wednesday session of the VIth plenary session Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U77	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union initiates three draft amendments to the Riigikogu decision: firstly, the draft amendment to the decision 'Constitution of a Special Committee against Corruption', secondly, the draft amendment to the decision 'Constitution of a Committee on Problems of the Riigikogu to resolve the population crisis', and thirdly, the draft amendment to the decision 'Construction of a Committee on Problems of the Riigikogu to develop developments in state reform'. These amendments mean the exchange of members of the IRL Group on committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U78	No more wishes. I have adopted three drafts and we will act with them under the Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered their presence at the plenary session. One comment on today's agenda: item No 2, which is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean initiated by the Government of the Republic, is the initiator of the rapporteur, Mr Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U79	However, according to the agenda, first of all, the Government of the Republic has initiated the first reading of the draft law on the ratification of the Eurocontrol Air Traffic Safety Cooperation Act 448. Kadri Simson, Minister of Economy and Infrastructure of the Government of the Republic, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U80	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I stand before you here with the law on the ratification of protocols on cooperation in the field of air traffic safety by Eurocontrol. Eurocontrol is the European Organisation for the Safety of Air Navigation. It is a central intergovernmental air traffic management organisation in Europe, already established in December 1960 by the International Convention on Air Traffic Safety Cooperation. The general objective of the Convention is to enhance cooperation between States in the field of air traffic management, including the smoother, safer and more efficient air traffic within the European airspace. The establishment of Eurocontrol as an organisation was necessary to fulfil the general objective set out in the Convention. At present, Eurocontrol's main task is to support the implementation of the main European civil aviation development programme in the Common European Sky. This 1960 Convention entered into force on 1 March 1963 and has been amended four times: 1970, 1978, 1981 and most recently 1997. Estonia has acceded to both the Convention and the multilateral agreement on route charges. Riigikogu passed the Act of Accession to these international treaties on 5 November 2014 and it entered into force on 16 November 2014. On 1 January 2015, Estonia became the 41st Member State when it joined Eurocontrol. Paragraph 25 of the Foreign Relations Act lays down the general principle of the law of international agreements according to which an international agreement is amended by the same procedure as its conclusion, unless the agreement provides otherwise. The Protocol of 27 June 1997 introduced substantial improvements to the Eurocontrol Convention with a view to better aligning Eurocontrol's activities with developments in the air navigation services sector in the intervening period. A protocol was opened for signature in 2002 under which Eurocontrol will be joined by the European Community, the current European Union. The European Union shall become a member of Eurocontrol once the Protocol on the accession of the European Community has been ratified, adopted or approved by all signatory States on the one hand and by all Member States of the European Union on the other. Both protocols have already been signed by the Republic of Estonia on 26 November 2014 and will be ratified with this draft. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U81	Any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Thank you, Kadri Simson! The rapporteur for the Economic Commission is Raivo Põldaru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U82	Good Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, In the Committee on Economic Affairs, the draft law was discussed at 448 on 30 May, i.e. at the previous session. And as the minister appeared before us today, he introduced the draft law at the same time. There was an interest in how far the protocols have been ratified, and the answer was that Turkey has not yet ratified them. The Commission also adopted decisions to send the draft to first reading today, 13 September 2017, proposing that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for proposing amendments be 27 September. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U83	Questions? No way, the report was very thorough. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of Bill 448 is complete. I will set the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 27 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U84	The second item is the first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean initiated by the Government of the Republic. Kadri Simson, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator of the draft act. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U85	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am here before you at the request of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I will replace him when presenting the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean. The Government of the Republic has submitted to the Riigikogu for ratification the Treaty establishing the Foundation, which was signed during the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the Community of Latin America and Caribbean States on 25 October 2016 in Santo Domingo in the Dominican Republic. As of 8 September 2017, 26 Member States of the European Union and 26 Latin American and Caribbean States have signed the Agreement. It has been ratified by Latvia, Lithuania, Sweden, Finland, Hungary and Belize. Article 24 of the Agreement requires ratification after signature. Ratification is therefore based on § 121 (5) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, as ratification is provided for in the Treaty. In addition to the Member States of the European Union, the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean is made up of 33 Latin American and Caribbean countries. The Latin American and Caribbean Commonwealth covers a total of around 600 million inhabitants. The European Union and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have had special relations since 1999 when a strategic partnership agreement between the two regions was concluded. In 2011, the European Union-Latin America-Caribbean Fund was established in Hamburg with the aim of strengthening the partnership between the European Union and the Latin America-Caribbean Member States. The Fund was set up on the assumption that it would be converted into an international organisation, which has legal personality under international public law, by an international treaty to be concluded in the future. The signing of the agreement in October 2016 culminated in a decade-long process in which the leaders of 61 countries concerned have worked to establish the European Union and the Latin America and Caribbean Foundation as an international organisation. The Foundation can be seen as an instrument of the European Union's common foreign policy, as it contributes to closer cooperation between Member States and political dialogue with Latin America and the Caribbean, while ensuring that the interests and values of the European Union are respected. The objective of the Foundation is to facilitate and increase the visibility of cooperation between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean; to promote mutual knowledge and understanding; to involve civil society in both regions and all other social partners; and to promote contact networks; to organise discussions and seminars for joint action. The establishment of the Foundation as an international organisation will help to increase its capacity to raise funds from its Member States. Until now, many Member States have not been able to make a voluntary financial contribution to the current foundation, since the fund has been established under German civil law. If the Fund receives the status of an international organisation, it will allow it to cut certain costs, benefit from privileges and immunities under international law, and make better use of its money and people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U86	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U87	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I read this bill and did not understand whether the Republic of Estonia is also making financial commitments, whether Estonia has contributed to the activities of this foundation or how Estonia is involved in it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U88	Joining this foundation does not entail direct financial obligations. This sentence, which I may have read awkwardly, says that betting is voluntary. In the future, financial contributions to this foundation will remain voluntary. At the same time, we have so far worked with the Organization of American States, where Estonia is already an observer state. It was precisely in developing countries belonging to this organisation, for example, that last year EUR 100000 was contributed and in the last year, or USD 100000 in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U89	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! It is clear that the foundation will be set up to provide wider opportunities for raising money. Do you think that the sums that you mentioned before will now go to this foundation, because without the money it will not work, and indirectly, Estonia will still start to raise money there, even though it is, as they say, created under German law and perhaps interests the Germans more than we do?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U91	It is precisely by the Treaty establishing this foundation that this German Foundation will become an international foundation. The purpose of the agreement is to establish the foundation as an international organisation with legal personality. Whether Estonia is contributing to it is our own free decision. It is true that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia has the means to help developing countries, but what exactly is already our decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U92	Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure Kadri Simson! The rapporteur for the Commission is Anne Sulling, member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U93	Honourable Riigikogu! The Committee on Foreign Affairs dealt with a draft of 446 at its meeting on 30 August. Foreign Minister Sven Mikser had been invited to present the content and purpose of the draft to the Commission. As the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure has just presented this draft to you very thoroughly, I am not going to repeat it. The Commission decided to appoint a speaker to the draft before you and to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 13 September, as well as to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for the 446 amendments be set at 16 a.m. on 15 September 2017. In addition, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided to propose a second reading of draft 446 on the agenda of the plenary session on 20 September should the first reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U94	Any questions? Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U95	Thank you. Dear waitress, I have a question. The Minister has just told us here that Estonia makes a voluntary contribution to this foundation. Was the Commission also discussing what function Estonia still has in this foundation and what governance is there, the essential structure of this foundation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U96	This was not discussed separately in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-13_U97	No further questions. Thank you. I'm opening negotiations. There is no wish for negotiation. First reading of draft 446 is complete. I will set the deadline of 15 September at 16 p.m. for the submission of amendments. Thanks! I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 2.18 p.m.
