ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Question Time. Incoming check, please! 46 members of the Riigikogu are present in Question Time, but Evgeni Ossinovski, Minister of Health and Labour of the Government of the Republic, is present today in the duties of Prime Minister Tarmo Tamm, Minister of Rural Affairs, and Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection. I will give the opportunity to put forward an additional question in the debate on each subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U2	The first questioner is Artur Talvik and the first is Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U3	Thank you, Chairman! Good Jevgeni Ossinovski! There is such a beautiful word as 'decovy party' on the move among the people. It expresses the'scam' of politicians who stand as candidates for elections, but then they will never participate in the work of either the council or any other representative body. Now this fraud is legalised by the so-called "two chairs," but it is an interesting segment such as the ministers who, according to the law, should never participate in the work of the council. Why are you involved, and why are your colleagues involved in this so-called decoy party?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U4	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. There must be no cheating; even less can politicians deceive their voters. In this context, it would certainly be unacceptable for a member of the government who is applying for a local government council to say that if he turns out to be elected, he will become a member of the council, while remaining a minister, because that is indeed prohibited by law. However, as far as I know, no member of the government has cheated on voters in this context or spoken illegally. It is true that members of the government also stand as candidates for local elections, and that doesn't depend on the individual's inner conviction as to the exact reasons for doing so. One compelling argument is that the ordinary powers of the members of the government will end in a year and a half, and then, of course, these people will also be able to participate in the work of the council, as the mandate of the council will be considerably longer. It must be taken into account that, for example, during the previous working period of the Riigikogu, 2011 to 2015, there were four governments in Estonia. It is understandable that, if a council member's mandate is longer than that of a member of the government, these people also wish to participate in the work of the council after the end of the term of office of a member of the government. I don't think there's anything wrong with that in itself. It is certainly not a matter of deceiving voters in any way either, if that justification is made clear. As far as I know, it's been said.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U5	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U6	Thank you for your answer. Allow me to disagree. However, I believe that this is a betrayal of voters. But Estonia currently holds the Presidency of the European Union and the government really has a lot of work. Will you tell us how you share your time? How much time does it take for you to do the ministry directly a day, how much time do you have for the Presidency and how much campaign to run in municipal elections?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U7	Thank you. Of course, participation in elections is always an additional obligation. On the other hand, I would not want to disparage the fact that political parties and party politicians are taking part in the elections. I think it's part of democracy. It is certainly no shame to ask voters for their support and mandate for their ideas and opinions; it is certainly no shame to defend our outlook in elections, too. In this sense, I have rather been frustrated that your party has given up on these elections. However, I think your constituents would have expected you to actually participate in the elections and have had the opportunity to choose you. In addition to the tasks of a member of the government, the tasks associated with the Presidency and other tasks, there is no doubt that the campaign of local elections requires additional time. It depends on a person's inner conviction how much he can do at the expense of his family on weekends, evenings, or early mornings. Of course, as you rightly say, the duties of the post office and the tasks that the honourable Riigikogu has mandated members of the government and indirectly the people of Estonia through it are very tense. These tasks need to be carried out regardless of whether local elections are held or not. I can say that all members of the government are very conscientiously carrying out their duties, both in the context of the Presidency of the European Union and at national level.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U8	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U9	Thank you. I actually agree with the school brother Ossinovski that this theme of decoy ducks is largely pseudo-issue after the legislative amendment, and voters could make their own assessment. They'll have that chance soon enough. There are certainly people among the free parties who were elected to the council four years ago, but who interrupted this work after coming to the Riigikogu. There's a slight smell of fraud. However, I personally hope that many of the members of the government will work on the local government council after the elections, as this would be more affordable work. But I would like to ask the Minister for clarification. Can a member of the Government of the Republic temporarily suspend his membership of the Council, or is this an automatic decision on 16 October?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U10	I do not have the Official Journal at hand, but as far as I know, the mandate of a member of the local government council stops for the duration of the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic, which means that after the duties of a member of the Government of the Republic have ended, it is possible to proceed to the realisation of the mandate of the local government council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U11	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U12	Hanno Pevkur will ask the next question to the Minister for Health and Labour in his capacity as Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U13	Thank you. Minister, it is the Prime Minister's duties at the moment. We raised a little bit of this in the Forum, but then we didn't mention it. I am thinking of giving Russian schools an exception to the language of instruction. Could you maybe say your personal position and explain the position of the government and perhaps of the social democrats in the same way? When will these exceptions be discussed in the government? If they are to be discussed, what will be the decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U14	Thank you very much. As I said on the Forum, the subject is extremely complex and complex. Consequently, it cannot be discussed in substance and in depth in the form of short replies, questions and answers. That goes for today's format, Question Time. Debates on this subject are certainly important and necessary in the Riigikogu Hall, but they would be more sensible and meaningful to discuss in the form of an inquiry if the rapporteurs were able to dissect the subject in more detail in their answers than the Chairman of the Riigikogu would allow me to do here. As regards the three (memory) applications of the Tallinn School to the Government of the Republic, so that they can organise teaching in a different way, so that, on the one hand, the output requirements of the Estonian language are increased and, on the other hand, the government allows a different proportion of language learning, these applications have not been submitted to the Government of the Republic by the Ministry of Education and Research. I have no information about the stage or state of these in the Ministry of Education in terms of procedure. If you had formulated your question more precisely, I would certainly be better equipped with information today. If these requests come to the Government of the Republic, the Government of the Republic will naturally discuss them and shape their position, but they are not on the agenda at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U15	Hanno Pevkur, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U16	Yeah, well, I actually asked for your position and that of the Socialists whether or not you would support an exception to the Russian language. You didn't answer that, but you have a chance to answer the question to be specific. It's in either form, so yes or no is a perfectly appropriate answer. But just so you can move on from yes-or-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no, just-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no, Yana Toom, the leading politician of your coalition partner, the Central Party, has unashamedly mocked Estonia and other Western countries in a Russian talk show, according to one Estonian blogger. Would you give it your opinion and maybe give us a little light at all, talk about Russian-oriented politics, government behaviour and future directions? For example, the issue of the car has also been highlighted. The question has arisen as to whether this is a sneaking departure from sanctions in order to enable the Estonian company to enter the Russian market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U17	Thank you. As has been said, the subject is so complex that it does not allow a yes-or-no answer. It is certainly possible to answer the question whether this type of application systematically solves the problem in Estonian education, that students who speak Russian as their native language will not be able to learn enough Estonian at the end of the formal education system. No, this is definitely not a systemic solution. If we look at the situation more broadly, we can see that there is no doubt that there is a serious concern in Estonia that, although the level of knowledge of the Estonian language of Russian-language children has improved significantly, it still leaves something to be desired. I have already said this before, and I am also saying today that the decisions taken in Estonia to improve this situation have not been effective to the end, some of them perhaps not even correct to the end. We know that any native language children learn a foreign language best in their natural environment and at an early age, but we have tried to solve this problem in our national system by artificially introducing Estonian-language education at upper secondary school level. Why do I say "artificially"? Because teachers who are not very good at teaching Estonian in these schools often teach Estonian, which is why methodologically, teaching often leaves the job to be desired. In this context, I think it is important to find a long-term systemic solution. Such a political slogan, both on the one hand and on the other, will certainly not contribute to finding this solution. But it's such a big issue that I'm afraid I can't answer thoroughly here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U18	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U19	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I will return to Mr Pevkur's first question. It is perfectly understandable and understandable that you do not have the facts to tell us how this process is currently taking place in the government. It is also quite understandable that the Social Democrats have not shaped their position on this issue. But you, as former Minister of Education and Science, have a personal position. Please, can't you just say it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U20	I support this... Can Mr. Hanno Pevkur ask another question? After all, my memory allows you to ask for two additional questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U21	One further question is:
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U22	It's not my jurisdiction, I'm sorry! Of course, I have my own position, but as I said, there is a great deal of such political sloganism on this issue, and this subject is extremely complex, in essence and in pedagogical terms, it is undoubtedly emotional and would require a much more thorough debate. I can say that I am in favour of a systemic solution. Is exemption for three schools a systemic solution? No, he certainly isn't. But in a minute and 19 seconds, I will also answer the other side of the question put by Hanno Pevkur. The government's policy in terms of both Russia and Estonia's allied relations is very coherent and consistent. There has been no strategic change compared to previous governments. On the contrary, we have strengthened our positions on many issues and we will continue the same line that Estonia's foreign and defence policy has so far had. We are trying to consensually push this forward. It is very difficult for me to comment on whether some of the members of the European Parliament elected from Estonia are speaking about Estonia outside of talk programmes, because I am not familiar with these circumstances. But it will certainly benefit Estonia if Estonia's foreign and security policy is uniform, and the Government of the Republic will certainly keep this line.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U23	Thank you. Honourable Riigikogu! This allowed number of questions I say at the beginning of Question Time is based on experience. If there are six questioners, we have risked two additional questions and normally the sixth questioner has not been able to ask. If there are more than six questioners, I promise only and always one additional question. I shall close the debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U24	The next questioner is Arno Bridge and the question is Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tammele. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U25	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. This summer, especially the second half of the summer, was very difficult for farmers due to weather conditions. We know that there are already indications that some cultures may not be harvested. For example, peas are already practically'salves', potato harvests seem to be very poor in many places, etc. This is because of weather conditions that cause problems for farmers. Does the Ministry have a project of measures to support farmers if such weather continues and, indeed, in many fields, crops are pervasive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U26	Thank you for your question. The cereals sector, as well as the crop sector, such as potato and vegetable crops, is in a difficult situation. But not everywhere. The number of precipitations in Estonia has been very different in different places, although in August, for example, 37% of rainfall was more than a year ago. I know farmers with 1 800 hectares of grain harvested, the harvest of cereals finished. But the situation is very different from place to place. There are areas where, I fear, the crop remains in the field, it is not possible to harvest it because the fields are soft and autumn is at hand, it can be said that the harvest has shifted by at least a month into autumn. This is an extraordinary year in the sense that the whole harvest has shifted to autumn. The Minister of Agriculture of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania has discussed this together. In Latvia, the situation is actually worse in regions, while in the Latgale region cereals are completely under water. We're preparing a letter. We will first analyse the situation. If it becomes clear what the extent of the damage is, we will call on the European Commission. There's no other way around here. But this is not just our subject; it is also the subject of Latvia and Lithuania. Although the harvest is record this year, in many cases it remains in the field.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! Now is a good time for some farmers in some ways, and it can only be rejoiced, even though consumers squeak their noses because prices are rising. I want to know what the Minister and the Ministry are currently planning in view of the fact that the milk price is on the rise, perhaps preparing for the next crisis and knowing that prices in this market are very volatile. Is the implementation of so-called hedge funds planned or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U29	Thank you. In the dairy sector, unlike the cereals sector, there is a very good period over long periods of time. It can be said that the decrease in the number of dairy cows has been halted, the production figures are good and the market price is also good. The government has also turned to a farmer with a face, and the dairy producer receives quite a lot of support. We know that between 2014 and 2016, the dairy herd decreased by 10%, i.e. the neighbouring countries bought 13000 dairy cows together, because their agricultural policy was slightly different from that of Estonia. In my opinion, this was a very poor period for Estonian agriculture when dairy farmers were forced to reduce their dairy cattle, especially because our farmers were placed in an unequal competitive position compared to their neighbours, because no transitional payments were paid in Estonia. But crisis aid and crisis relief funds were discussed in Tallinn at an informal meeting of agriculture ministers. We know that every year 400 million European Union agriculture budgets are set aside, which could be used as crisis aid. But so far, no consensus has been found to allow everyone to use it, this money will be distributed at the end of the year. In fact, only 0.2% of the total European agricultural budget will contribute to the crisis relief fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U30	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U31	The next questioner is Külliki's Hatter and answers Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm. Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U32	Thank you, Chairman. Good minister! Today, three years ago, the Estonian Free Party was founded, whose aim is to stand up for people who do not stand out very strongly in society. These include farmers. This year, it was planned to spend EUR 100000 of replacement support as a service to farmers so that they could use the leave and sick leave provided by the State. Now it turns out there's still no money available. Would you please tell me what the Ministry is saving for? You have just said that the dairy sector could be where there are developments. It is likely that this target group will be farmers.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U33	Thank you. The replacement allowance is set at EUR 500000 in the Ministry's budget. I think it's spent 388000 euros today. So I don't know where you got your data. EUR 500000 in 2015 was EUR 550000 in 2017, as EUR 50000 was temporarily added from the Crisis Assistance Fund. It's working right now. In parallel, we are developing a new regulation to ensure that replacement support is more targeted, so that 20% of this amount does not go to administration alone. Of this EUR 500000, EUR 100000 goes only for someone to administer it. We want to make such a regulation so that it is open and that everyone can compete, who wants to organise it. We will soon come up with this regulation, but this year the budget will be EUR 500000, of which EUR 387000 or EUR 388000 have been spent.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U34	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U35	Thank you. Thanks for the details, too. I've been in contact with members of the farm council. There are perhaps different concepts here that could be used for what purposes. But would you also like to introduce the activities and measures of the Ministry of Rural Affairs for the development of jobs and small businesses?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U36	Thank you. There's quite a lot of these activities. As you know, the Leader programme will ensure, above all, that there are jobs and life in the country. These sums are pretty high. In the last budget period, as we remember, it was probably 73 million or 72 million, I might be a little lost here. The measure on rural diversification offers additional opportunities to create new jobs and find employment in the countryside. There is also the support of a young farmer. There is quite a lot of these measures and they are very busy being taken. For example, there was a recent call for young farmers' support and there was more applicants than there was actually money. This is sad in itself, and we need to see how young people are attracted to the countryside more and more. These measures have very positive results. I recently visited Aran's farm in Haaslava, for example, where strawberries, raspberries, and many other cultures were cultivated. This company had started with the support of a young farmer, which received EUR 39000. Now his turnover is a million and he offers seasonal work to up to a hundred people. These opportunities exist, they must be actively seized. We are constantly reviewing these measures so that people can find a job in the country and earn money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U37	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U38	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! The Free Party is also happy that farmers will receive extra money. For two years, we have also made proposals on this subject on the state budget. So that's great. However, in our view, the so-called sectoral distribution of this money remains a problem. We feel that large producers continue to be given priority over small producers, that there is a lack of differentiation of direct payments and that the concentration of agriculture continues. What is your assessment, and why does it go on like this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U39	Thank you for your question. Andres, we really stood up for one thing, for the top-up to be restored. It'll be restored by today. This year it was paid out, next year it will also be paid out, this money will be available in the budget. This is a great help for farmers. This is shown, even if the decline in the herd is over, we will no longer be reduced in the dairy herd and the reduction in the number of pigs has stopped. But now for the question you asked. There are rules and it's very difficult to differentiate. Of course, there are also measures available to small producers. For example, crisis aid only benefited from dairy cow payments for farms with up to 400 cows, large farms did not get any part of it at all, and this amount was quite large and distributed. Certain measures allow this, certain measures do not allow it, because direct payments are calculated per hectare, as many hectares as there are, so much support will be granted. But the question is right, we need more differentiation. Large companies already manage in many cases, and this support could go to smaller ones, so that small ones would survive and there would be something else on the ground. But this is a political question on which we are all looking together for a solution. But the question is right in this respect, we want more people to live in the country and they will be competitive. The great one has the advantage, it cannot be called into question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U40	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U41	Minister of Social Security Kaia Iva answers the question of Remo Holsmer. Please, Remo Holsmer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U42	Thank you! As a vigilante, I'm trying to figure out what government policy is and what it is about sweet taxes. The head of the IRL, Seeder, has said there will be no sweets. Jevgeni Ossinovski, sitting on your left hand, has said that it will be sweeter. Yesterday, the Chairman of the Economic Commission and former Minister of Finance Sester gave a response to the Forum, which was somewhat vague. Perhaps as a person working with Evgen at the Ministry of Social Affairs and sharing a daily job, you can describe whether or not the coalition is setting sweet taxes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U43	Thank you for this interesting question. It is true that serious and heated discussions have been brought about more sweet in society and within the coalition. In June, our party chairman in the coalition raised this issue again. Last week, the office meeting had the issue of sweet tax on the budget and even the debate at all. Last week it was decided, given that there are many issues in society at all, and there are also legal issues here that this tax will not be introduced in 2018. It may be a good opportunity to expand the subject a little bit when asked by the Minister for Social Protection and we discussed it in the budgetary context. When, at the beginning of the year, when I had recently become a minister, it was clear that there was a lack of money in social protection, I now have the opportunity to say that at the same cabinet meeting that was held last week, it was decided that this was still an agreement, the draft law has not yet been approved, that public social services will be given additional money to the extent that we will receive basic expenses covered for both aids, rehabilitation services and special care services. So I think these questions will be resolved. Of course, we cannot stop at it, because there is certainly a question of pricing in rehabilitation, for example. But there is a certainty that, at the beginning of the new year, we are not in this situation, as we were at the beginning of this year, when we did not have any money. So in this sense, last week's office meetings were very effective. We decided that there would be no sweet tax next year, and the social sector also received the requested amount of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U44	Remo Holsmer, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U45	I'm glad to hear all that. If there is a need for the support of the parliamentary and reform party groups, I can say that we will certainly support the drafts that you will bring to the Riigikogu if necessary. So, it's about... Haven't you heard? I'm talking about a microphone.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U46	Honourable organisers, please tell those MPs who are debating at the door of the Chamber of the Riigikogu to do it elsewhere. It even interferes with guidance and it certainly interferes with listening. Please, Remo Holsmer, again! There, I think, is a vigilante who's explaining himself right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U47	Let's try not to disturb him, okay? In short, I said that it is a pleasure to hear all the initiatives that the Minister for Social Protection has fought out of the budget. If Parliament's support is needed, we will certainly be helping to change the laws. But, as I said, with regard to the sweet tax, there are signals from the chairman of the party that there will be no such tax. The Chair of the Economic Commission gave such an unpleasant answer in the public space yesterday. What's your position? You're a member of the IRL government delegation. Do you support sweet tax? You said that it would not come in 2018, but can it be concluded that it will come in 2019?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U48	Thank you. I can confirm what we agreed on last week in the cabinet, and I believe that these agreements will hold. Maybe I can assure you there won't be a sweet tax in 2018. There are no prospective agreements on what will happen in a year, ten or twenty. So there's nothing I can add. But again, in order to make good use of the time, I am going to call on last week's study session and I will continue to present the debate that we had there. We also talked about reducing the maintenance load at the study session. So I am already counting on Parliament's support in this matter as well. We have EUR 16 million for four years under the specific programme to reduce the maintenance burden. The next step is to start work in three directions. Firstly, new places are being created for special care, a completely new service we want to create for those with a high need for help, and we need to mention day care and interval care. Another issue is dementia, people need to be relieved and nursing homes need to be adapted to their needs. Third, giving the family member who cares for a deeply disabled person the opportunity to take extra holidays. Honourable members of the Riigikogu have often asked how far it is. As far as I know, during the previous coalition, a task force started working to reduce the maintenance load. We know that there is too much pressure on homes and individuals themselves. We've made agreements in the government office in principle. I hope that the honourable Parliament will also support them when these things get here.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U49	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U50	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! It was a bit confusing whether the services you were talking about were being developed with the support of European Union or Estonian national funds. But I want to come back to the sweet tax. Sweetened drinks make up a few percent of a person's daily calorie. Do you really believe that this tax can reduce their consumption and, more importantly, improve human health to such an extent that this crusade is worthwhile?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U51	Thank you. I didn't exactly understand the first comment. If you had any concerns about the extra money allocated to national social services and to reduce the burden of care, then I can say that I was talking about state budget money, i.e. not European Union money. Of course, in these areas too, we are using ESF resources. We hope that we will be able to use these funds next year for the rehabilitation of people of working age, and also for the aids for people of working age we will be able to use the ESF. But right now, we were talking about purely state budget funds, our own state money. Now, about your question about health. Yes, indeed, we are certainly working hand in hand with Minister Ossinovski in the sense that health issues are very important both to our ministry and to the government. Obviously, we should not look at one or the other tax specifically, but we should look at what general attitudes are and how these attitudes are supported. Let's start with children, for example. It is important what attitudes we shape, how we shape children's health and what choices we offer. We should start as soon as possible. There was talk that we should start language learning as early as possible, but we also need to start early on offering healthy choices and developing such a way of life. Our parents and families should be aware and healthy choices should be offered in our kindergartens and beyond in schools. It concerns food, drink, exercise, and everything that surrounds us. This is a very big and complex issue, I believe you will even understand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U52	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U53	Next, the Minister of Health and Labour Jevgeni Ossinovski will ask Jaak Madison. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U54	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister, Over the last five years, the Estonian LGBT Association has been supported by more than 172000 euros through the Ministry of Social Affairs, namely the Gambling Tax Board. Each year this grant has increased, with a budget of EUR 65000 for this year. A member of the board of the LGBT Association, a person named Helen Sööl, worked in the Ministry of Social Affairs as an advisor to the Equality Policy Department and was also one of the main authors of the new Equal Treatment Act. This law also directly serves the objectives of the LGBT association. Do you see a conflict of interest and possible corruption here, if the person who is working on the draft is at the same time a member of the board of directors of an association that is actually maintained by taxpayers' money and the allocation that comes through the Ministry of Social Affairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U55	Thank you very much, Honourable Asker. Indeed, the Ministry of Social Affairs supports a large number of civil society organisations. It is true that the money for social and health benefits, decided upon by the Gambling Tax Board, moves through the Ministry of Social Affairs, but these decisions are confirmed by the Gambling Tax Council on the basis of its own priorities. It is true that in 2017, for example, the Gambling Tax Board will be a priority for activities aimed at raising awareness, tolerance and inclusion in equal treatment. Consequently, a number of organisations, including the LGBT association, have submitted a project application which has been supported by the Gambling Tax Council. I am not a member of the Gambling Tax Board, but your good colleague Mart Helme can certainly explain why he has decided to support the LGBT Society. But I think it's a good thing. They do important work by helping a minority group in society, for example, with legal advice, and also have broader activities that increase society's awareness and friendliness towards these people. As regards the possible conflict of interest that you have referred to, it does not exist. In compliance with the law, all ministerial staff shall refrain from conflicts of interest. The employee you mentioned joined the LGBT Association several months after he left the Ministry of Social Affairs. People still choose new areas when they leave the previous job.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U56	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U57	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good Minister, thank you for your answer. I certainly cannot accept that it is a commendable job to be consistently engaged in the division of society. As we know, all citizens of the Republic of Estonia have the right to legal aid in order to seek legal advice. Similarly, all minority groups have the right to do so. Citizens' initiatives can also support their activities by means of donations or grants, as is very exemplary for the protection of the family and tradition of the SA, who have not asked the state for a single cent but have more than 50,000 donors a year. How do you comment today, rather as a person who is in the prime minister's office, but that, for example, the Association Gifted Life, who saves lives and has repeatedly asked for the help of the state, does not receive a single cent from the Ministry of Social Affairs? You could, even morally, support their activities and a very grateful job. At the same time, tens of thousands of euros are moving through the Ministry of Social Affairs, even if the Fédération receives EUR 60000 per year to feed the freeloaders on the state's payroll.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U58	Thank you. Let your insulting judgment be on your conscience. But, once again, with regard to specific grants, these are grants decided upon by the Gambling Tax Council under the Gambling Tax Act. The Ministry of Social Affairs is a payer and preparer for project reporting. The Gambling Tax Council has considered it necessary to support these projects. There are, in fact, 80 of them in the social sphere alone; the project you mentioned is really only one of them. Once again, I think this is undoubtedly an important project. With regard to the second question you have raised, the gifted Life of the charity fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs has had good cooperation with this fund. When it comes to whether we have helped them spread our message, we certainly have. I have participated in many of their events, as well as in other ways in contact with them. This is undoubtedly a complex and emotional issue. I am extremely pleased that there is a fund that helps fill these gaps due to the time lag that arise at the moment when the new medicine has been authorised, but has not yet been able to carry out an assessment of the evidence base and cost orientation on the basis of the standards laid down by the Health Insurance Fund and has not been publicly funded. In order for people to receive the best possible treatment in the meantime, such charitable funds exist. The people of Estonia are ready to put money in them. This is excellent, and I am sure to call on everyone to support this fund. I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U59	Thank you. Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U60	Honourable President! Honorable Minister! I am a member of the Gambling Tax Council and, unlike my colleague, Helme, I have also had the opportunity, the time and the will to participate in the activities of the Council. I, too, have been a little disturbed from time to time that the proposals coming from the Ministry of Social Affairs to the Council have, politely said, sometimes, been in the service of one of the worldviews. There have not been many of these cases, but in some cases we have had such a bit of ideological debate. Could you briefly explain how the draft decision is being prepared within the ministry? How do these positions of the Ministry form?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U61	Thank you. I didn't identify it. It is probably true that equal treatment of people, which is the constitutional value of Estonia, is becoming a world-view choice that I do not think it should be. But it is probably true that many Estonian parties believe that this seems to be a matter of about the same weight as a dispute over some small detail of social policy to be done either in one way or in the other. I am certainly not the person who appreciates these projects at the Ministry of Social Affairs. They shall be evaluated by departmental experts who shall assess the relevance of project proposals and their consistency with the priorities established by the Council. They are also likely to assess how and how realistic they are to be implemented within the prescribed time frame. So this is a decision made by specialists, which neither Minister of the Ministry of Social Affairs is in any way signing or imposing. In this sense, it is, as I understand it, the so-called proposal by the Ministry of Social Affairs for an evaluation of the Council on the basis of which these decisions are taken by the Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U62	I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U63	Asks Monika Haukanõm, answers the Minister of Health and Labour in the duties of Prime Minister Jevgeni Ossinovski. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is no secret that health care urgently needs extra money. Next year, some 89 million in non-working pensioners will be added to the Health Insurance Fund's budget. Health services have also been provided through institutions in the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs, such as the Health Board or the Institute for Health Development, and have been financed from the state budget. Next year, this money will amount to around EUR 55 million. If these sums were to be added up, it would appear that the budget of the Health Insurance Fund should increase by EUR 55 million (the money from the public budget due to consolidation) next year, plus these 89 million, thus a total of EUR 144 million. Unfortunately, the real increase is only EUR 34 million. My question is, why have you, as the responsible minister and chairman of the Health Insurance Board not stood for this budget to increase by 144 million, not ultimately by 34 million?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U65	Thank you very much. We have already held this debate in the Committee on Social Affairs. There is a large number of accounts at the same time, as, in addition to providing additional money for health care, there are also organisational changes in healthcare, during which different health care services are consolidated for the funding of the Health Insurance Fund. There are several figures that need to be operated in parallel. As a result, a certain misunderstanding may indeed have arisen. I am therefore pleased to explain. The basic health reform consists of two parts. Firstly, the State will pay 13% of the average old-age pension to the health insurance fund, which is the average amount of the old-age pension, for non-working pensioners as of next year. It's going to happen gradually. By 2022, this reform will be completed and by that time 13% of old-age pensions will be paid to the sickness insurance fund. This reform starts next year and goes forward in steps, next year it will be 7%, then 10%, then 11%, 12% and 13%. These are then the amounts of the expansion of the revenue base you mentioned, which will be EUR 89 million next year, around EUR 200 million in 2022. At the same time, a number of services are consolidated under the Health Insurance Fund, such as ambulances, residencys, treatment of uninsured persons and several others. These costs must be covered within the same extended revenue base, i.e. there will be no additional money for it, which means that the money for shortening treatment queues, which has been one of the main objectives of the health reform, will be EUR 35 million next year and will increase to EUR 100 million in permanent funding by 2022. Over a five-year period, more than €300 million will be provided to reduce the number of treatments. But these figures are really a lot.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U66	Thank you. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U67	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Of course, there's a lot of numbers, and it was also nice juggling with figures. Actually, it's not 300 million more, it's 100 million more. But that's it. In 2011, the Act was amended to maintain the reserves of the Health Insurance Fund in the so-called Treasury. It is no secret that it is necessary to maintain the balance of the state budget and to cover current expenditure. Both the National Audit Office and the Chancellor of Justice have pointed out its illegality. Why do we need to do this? In fact, the central government is also down EUR 420 million. On the basis of what law have you promised to use the sickness fund's reserves to cover the daily expenses of the government as Chairman of the Health Insurance Fund, and has this been discussed in the Health Insurance Fund's Board?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U68	Thank you. During my term of office as chairman of the Council, this has not been discussed by the Health Insurance Fund in the Council. This is a really old political dispute. I do not remember what year it was, but it certainly took place between 2011 and 2014, when I was a member of the Riigikogu. I wasn't a fan of that change. But today, that decision has been made, and it has its reasons and reasons. Uniform management of national cash flows is undoubtedly a legitimate objective. On the other hand, it is clear that since the two social security funds, the sickness fund and the unemployment fund, basically have the resources of the social partners, i.e. both workers and employers, it is certainly important that this money is available at all times in order to cover the obligations of the two social security funds. There is a certain risk, which is why this debate has also arisen, that if the state's situation were to become financially difficult, how the sickness fund and the unemployment fund would receive all the money. We have been assured, and the legal framework also says that this money is available in the required size exactly as these social security funds decide. As a result, the Ministry of Social Affairs has not requested that this regime be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U69	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Certainly, the desire of people to get to a specialist doctor quickly is justified and understandable, but we both know that giving money alone does not solve this problem. I am still interested in how one Estonian citizen can find the admission of a specialist with the shortest number, regardless of the area where this doctor receives it. Setting up a national digital registration office is certainly extremely important, which could alleviate the situation, especially as queues have grown steadily in two top hospitals. Both the University of Tartu Hospital and the North Estonian Regional Hospital are increasing pressure. When do you expect a person to be able to choose a specialist from more relaxed and informed information, where he or she can get time faster than he or she might be able to get really near his or her house?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U71	Thank you. I am pleased that you continue to keep this subject on the agenda. This is a really important issue, not only in the context of how to write down time with a specialist in the fastest and most convenient way, but also in a slightly broader, health-care-management sense, so that cooperation between family doctors and specialist doctors can also better assess which patients objectively need faster help so that those who have an objective need to get to a doctor more quickly can get there. We are working on this on an ambitious timetable. Although we have not chosen this route to make it mandatory for all hospitals at first speed, we will soon start to try this solution with a couple of hospitals and hope that it will soon become nationwide. One of the issues that the next board of the Health Insurance Fund and the Council must seriously discuss is certainly how to accelerate the implementation of major IT developments in the health field. We know that healthcare institutions are constantly spending quite a lot of money on developing their systems. At the same time, I think it is not always that everyone develops their own system, the most sensible solution, we could develop information systems in a much more coherent way. For this purpose, the Ministry of Social Affairs has also increased IT capabilities. From the beginning of this year, a separate Information Systems Centre will work, which will plan these developments more systematically and strategically than before. I believe that, in the next year or two, we will see significantly better quality in healthcare when implementing IT developments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U72	Honourable Riigikogu, who would like to ask the minister a question within one minute so that the minister can respond within two minutes? Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will ask the question to Mrs Iva, Minister for Social Protection. I'm coming to the development of the SKAIS2 that fueled all of our passions. As we know, the contract with the current developer has been terminated and the Ministry has also charged over-costs. My question is in two parts. Firstly, how have negotiations with the service provider progressed, is it realistic to recover the fines? Second, there's 10 million planned for the future. Where does this courage, knowledge and competence come from to the ministry to complete this project successfully? It's been missing so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U74	Thank you for that question. I think that passion on this issue is appropriate, but only because it concerns a very large number of people in Estonia who are interested in whether or not the benefits and benefits paid through this system are all available. Otherwise, it should remain as rational as possible. In the course of this IT development, the first objective has always been that, even if there are problems, all benefits, benefits and pensions must be paid in time. The Social Insurance Board has also made some serious efforts to do this, and there have been no major setbacks. So that's definitely what we keep an eye on all the time. This argument that the agreement has already been concluded is not quite correct, as the compromise agreement is still being concluded. In the ministry, things have been arranged in such a way that it is the responsibility of the chancellor, and with his signature there are contracts and this compromise agreement as well. There's still work to be done. Compared to what was presented to the Government of the Republic as a compromise proposal, it has improved a little, but there is no signature on the papers yet, the legal language is still being polished. The Chancellor has confirmed his hope that by the end of September it could be fixed. Now, the question is, where did this new wisdom come from? Indeed, this new wisdom has been obtained with great care by the Ministry. Last year, the new Director General of the Social Insurance Board is working, who you all know very well, who has come from the public sector, namely in the field of IT development. A TECHNOLOGY was also established at the beginning of this year, covering all IT projects in the social field. It is very heavily manned, precisely because the state is a smart, smart and intelligent customer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U75	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U76	Thank you, good Chairman. My question is also the Minister for Social Protection, Kaia Ivale. It's about what's left over, about the sugar tax. I'll bring in more packaging tax. As the representative of the IRL, you confirmed that no sugar tax will be levied from 2018, but it is free-of-charge information that it will apply from 2019. As representative of the IRL, can you confirm that your house, the Ministry of Social Affairs, does not come up with such a proposal? What is the position of the IRL as a government department on packaging tax? Is it coming in the near future, and what's the status?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U77	Thank you. I'll be more specific first. It cannot be said that I guarantee that all the drafts of the Ministry of Social Affairs will come or go, because there are two ministers in this ministry and each is responsible for its own area. I'm not the one who's been on the free flight where I would have heard that one year, two years or three years this tax could come. The position of the IRL is that we do not want to introduce it. We have agreed on next year, because, as I said, we had this topic in the debate mainly in the context of the 2018 budget. At the time of the conclusion of this agreement, it was clear that this would not happen next year. No other agreement that could come in any of the next few years, I personally know. The party's position in this regard has not changed. But while you're asking, I'm trying to make good use of my time to pass on all the information you might not have been able to ask. I'll give you the positive news. I would like to add to the fact that there will be no sweet tax when we get to the real social sector that we agreed at last week's cabinet meeting that, like the salaries of internal security staff, the salaries of social workers, which are state salaries, will receive additional support next year. When we agreed on a 3.5% wage increase in the spring during the negotiations on the country's budgetary strategy, we agreed last week that there would be an additional 1%. So for now, a 4.5% raise has been agreed at the cabinet meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U78	Hanno Pevkur, please! Nine seconds over time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U79	Thank you. I will quickly ask Mr Ossinovski about two observations. Firstly, there was no assessment of the sanctions against Russia and of the locomotive business. Secondly, do you understand that sugar tax will come from 1 January 2019? Kaia Iva said she wasn't coming.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U80	Thank you. The policy of sanctions is unchanged; it is part of the continuity of Estonia's foreign and security policy, which I was talking about. I guess that's where your particular question lies. As far as the soda levy is concerned, it is indeed a measure for health protection in particular. Mr Kruuse said that he was not sure whether this would help. I'm ready to enlighten my colleague. This law has been subjected to a very thorough analysis of the evidence base, which confirms this. This is not only done in Estonia, but foreign specialists are also involved. But really, next year's state budget does not have this tax in it, and whether or not it moves forward will be decided when the time is right. The most recent time for this is certainly when the country's budgetary strategy for next year will be put together in April, when the four-year costs and revenues will have to be written down.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U81	Thank you to the ministers. The Question Time of the Riigikogu is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U82	Honourable Riigikogu! Let's start the Wednesday hearing. Who wants to hand over drafts or inquiries? No one has that wish. Incoming check, please! 79 members of the Riigikogu are present. To clarify the agenda, I say so much that at first reading of the draft law on ratification of the fifth item, the 'Extensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) initiated by the Government of the Republic between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand', the Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, will make a presentation on behalf of the initiator of the draft. I have a request for you, ambassadors. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] This is the request: honourable members of the Riigikogu, if you are talking to each other in this Chamber, do so with a sensible tone of voice, but do so at the door when you are communicating with each other or giving interviews, because your talk will be heard in this Chamber. There was just a case when the ambassador gave an interview at the door so loud that the minister in briefing did not hear the MP's question in this Chamber. Imagine! You can do all this in a much calmer tone, which makes you look better. I'm very grateful to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U83	Let's pick up where we finished last night. The first reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Council Election Act initiated by the Conservative People's Party Group continues. Negotiations between the political groups remained in place. Oudekki Loone, do you have a procedural question? Then you could give me a hand.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U84	I've pressed the "Word" button, but my name disappeared from the screen for some reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U85	I don't know what you want a word for. Let me know with your hand if you have a procedural question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U86	Would you repeat what you said about agenda item 5 today? Unfortunately, I couldn't hear it in the back of the hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U87	I'm sorry! Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to repeat. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, will make a presentation at the debate on this point on behalf of the initiators of the draft. Now the first reading of Bill 470 can be continued. Statements by political groups. Was anyone registered? Martin Helme, please! He was a registered speaker yesterday on behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U88	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't have much to talk about, because yesterday we discussed this subject in depth, just the closing remarks remained today. I must respond in a few words to my previous speakers who spoke on behalf of the political groups. First of all, it was strange to hear one side of the hall clap at the fact that there was an event at Klooga camp. However, I would like to turn more to my colleague Stalnukhin, who again began to say something about the Jews and the Reichstag. I understand that half of Estonia is obsessed with this issue. But if we already bring historical parallels, and even if we close our eyes, it must be said that in the 1930s there was no situation in Germany that there would have been a 50-year Jewish occupation. This comparison is simply not adequate. Secondly, I would like to get one thing out of the speech of the free partyman Adams. Our plan is not to impose Estonian citizenship on anyone; our plan is to grant the right to vote in Estonia only to Estonian citizens. This should motivate those who have not chosen citizenship to do so. We have no desire to automatically make them all Estonian citizens. I think that very many of them choose the citizenship of another country. However, I call on all of you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U89	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U90	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, particularly the good members of the EKRE in the back corner. You have so far given the impression that you know one comma of the second Estonian constitution, but I have disappointed you again. According to § 156 (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, persons who are at least 16 years old and who are permanently resident on the territory of that municipality are entitled to vote under the conditions laid down in the Local Government Election Act. Dear EKRE friends, if you do not believe in one Social Democrat, I can say that I think Mr Mart Nutt gave a very, very good presentation yesterday as a Commission rapporteur, and he also stressed this several times. Believe my colleague, Mr Nutti, at least. The Social Democratic Party will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U91	Negotiations have been conducted. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 470 at first reading. We must vote on this proposal. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Constitutional Committee 470 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 77 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal of the Constitutional Committee and 7 against none. Draft 470 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U92	The second item is the second reading of the draft Act 475 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Ms Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U93	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence on Monday, 11 September, including. Members of the Committee on Legal Affairs Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In addition, Carina Rikart, Linnar Liivamägi, Raini Laide and Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice and Anne Kruusement, adviser to the same department, were present. Ms Rikart announced that no amendments had been tabled to the draft by the deadline for the submission of the amendments, and Ms Kruusement, for her part, announced that all the amendments needed to ratify the Convention had been made by the time of the Commission meeting and that the next natural stage was to ratify the Convention. The last legislative amendments necessary for the implementation of the convention were adopted by the Riigikogu last spring and several new elements of the offence have entered into force in this connection. What's great is that these incendiary formations have already been used by now. For example, in the first month, the police received seven statements of harassment and five statements of sexual harassment. So you can see there was a need for these formations. Member of the Commission Külliki Kübarsepp wanted to know why the coordinating body for the implementation of the Convention should be the Ministry of Justice. Anne Kruusement replied that this was a ministerial agreement. That concludes the debate in the Commission. The Commission decided to put the draft law on the plenary agenda by 20 September 2017 (the decision was taken in consensus) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (the decision was also adopted in consensus). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U94	Questions for the waitress. Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U95	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The explanatory memorandum to the draft law mentions the purchase of sex from the victim of human trafficking among other offences related to that convention. At the same time, the Women's Association has sent us a note which I will formulate for you in the form of a question. The Istanbul Convention does not concern trafficking in human beings or prostitution. Trafficking in human beings is covered by the Council of Europe Convention against Trafficking in Human Beings, to which Estonia has acceded since 2015. Therefore, why was it considered necessary to criminalise the purchase of sex from a victim of trafficking in human beings, just now and as if bound by the Istanbul Convention, even though the Istanbul Convention absolutely does not include this?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U96	Thank you, good questioner! It is clear that this particular issue has nothing to do with this sitting of the Committee on Legal Affairs or with the matters discussed there. I believe that the composition you have referred to is very important, and I am pleased that this provision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U97	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, My question concerns Article 8, which talks about funds. In order for the Convention to be successfully implemented, sufficient financial resources, as well as human resources, must be provided to enable these programmes to be financed, preventive actions to be carried out, etc. At first reading, the explanatory memorandum stated that these activities were financed on a project basis. I bring here, for example, the services of the Women's Support Centre, whose activities are guaranteed in a minimum volume. It has been explained that the Ministry is also looking for additional funding. Do we have the certainty and clarity of how much money we need to meet the Convention's requirements in a consistent and substantive way, not formally, project-based or minimum size? The objective of compliance with the Convention should not simply be that we can say 'It has been done' at international level! ', only that people who are in trouble can really get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U99	Thank you. I believe that, for both this and all the other laws that we are adopting, the most important aspect is that they are not formal but essentially enforceable. To this end, funding is, of course, very important. To date, all the acts necessary for the ratification of this Convention have been adopted, they have entered into force, they have been implemented and, according to my information, they have the funding available. Is this funding sufficient, that is another question. Whether it should be project-based or not, it is also important, but it is rather an executive issue. According to my information, there is funding, and we can say that these adopted acts are also essentially operational, they are not only on formal paper.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U100	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U101	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! The funding is very important, and I will continue on this subject with regard to funding. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal says: 'The changes will ensure that victims of violence against women have access to services and sustainable financing of services, which will improve the continuity and quality of services. ' Unfortunately, for example, this year the funding of the Women's Support Centre in Viljandi County has fallen to only EUR 30000, in previous years it was EUR 48000 to EUR 50000, in Lääne County it was EUR 48000, this year it is EUR 27000, in Võru County it was up to EUR 50000, this year it is less than EUR 27000. While one thing is a beautiful plan and the so-called ratification of the Convention in this Chamber, the reality that should support it is a completely different matter. Was there also a discussion in the Committee on Legal Affairs on how to actually increase access to support services for women who need it? So, what's the future supposed to be? Maybe you can tell me.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U102	Thank you. I can say that this issue was not addressed by the Committee on Legal Affairs in the preparation of the second reading. This is rather a matter that we could discuss and should discuss in this Chamber when we adopt the next state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U103	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U104	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! When I looked at this point with a good colleague, Monika, she also drew attention to Article 31 entitled 'Private protection, visiting rights and security'. Are we going to take any measures to ensure that the psychological and physical safety of these children is always taken into account? What kind of problem do we have here, and what are we going to do about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U105	Thank you. In fact, due to this article, no changes have been made to the law. All these issues have already been resolved in advance, partly by law, partly by executive decrees. It is always a question of whether the measures are sufficient, but there are all the possibilities of getting advice. Is that enough, that's another question. Again, it is more of a matter of budget than of ratification of this convention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U106	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U107	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Several of the studies that have been carried out in the world have shown that on average disabled women are more likely to be victims of domestic violence. Has Estonia been discussing, in the Commission, the ratification of this convention, whether we have sufficient measures to protect women with disabilities? Would they need to be strengthened due to the ratification of this Convention? Have you even raised the subject?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U108	Thank you. No, such a subject has not been discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs when discussing this Convention. Obviously, once again, given the organisation of work, this would be, for example, the subject of the Committee on Social Affairs. It is true that I have also been familiar with these studies, which say that women with disabilities are at greater risk of being subjected to violence. I believe that this is a very important issue which should also be discussed here in the Riigikogu, given that it is our duty to ensure a decent life and safety for people throughout their lives, especially for those who need additional support. I believe that this could be a grateful initiative of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U109	Thank you. There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. I'm opening negotiations. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U110	Can I have some more time, please?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U111	Ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council. I have an evil suspicion that most MPs have not even read the Istanbul Convention. Otherwise, we would not discuss this absurd and unnatural document, but would reject it immediately. As you can imagine, it is precisely those who are trying to import the Pandora Box into Estonia who signed this document on behalf of Estonia in 2011 that were Andres Anvelt. What, then, is this convention? Indeed, it seems to be a document that gives priority to the victims of violence, obliges the country to provide support and services to them and introduces an understanding that there is no justification for violence, in particular violence against women and within the family. The Convention is directed against practices against women that are common in the Islamic world. It's very right and good. Unfortunately, there are a number of extreme left-liberal and literally abnormal provisions in the convention, which contain new sources of violence and repression, especially for those who attach importance to family, morality and normal relations between man and woman. The Convention declares traditional gender roles, customs and practices to be violence against women. The sex is merely a socially engineered role, not a result of evolution. The idea that men have a fatherly role and women have a motherly role is incitement to violence against women and must be eradicated with masculinity and femininity, with the provision of a seat for women and the opening of the door. According to the convention, a person may have the sexual characteristics of a man, but if he feels that he is a woman, he must be regarded as a woman. Don't be surprised how perverts feel like women and girls to break into women's bathrooms and showers in public places. Such gender change will allow us to circumvent the obligation of the armed forces, a clear security threat. It opens the back door to gay marriages. Only the so-called sex change of one member of the same sex couple is enough to get married. In addition, it gives a death blow to women's sport, because in competitions women with beard will win, each of whom has a social structure in their pants. It is only a matter of time before Estonia joins the Norwegian sots in asking for a third sex to write a passport; it is likely that four, six and ten will soon be invented, some will want to have several at once. That's disgusting. The Convention requires the introduction of radical-feminist and non-stereotypical gender roles in the education system and the preparation of corresponding textbooks. Estonia can no longer decide what is or is not in our study programmes. All syllabus are reviewed and modified according to left-liberal and extremely feminist doctrines. The school is once again becoming an ideological educational institution with the task of shaping new types of people. Even now, these madnesses have ended up in our schools and kindergartens, and once again, mostly through sots. The people have never approved the promotion, dissemination and introduction of gender and homoideology in education and society. This madness must be stopped. Leave the kids alone! By dividing society and increasing opposition, the Convention, like the homo law, acts as a blow to a democratic society and its coherence. People experience the coercive perversions that are being imposed on them as a coercion of the state. It reduces loyalty and love for the country. Any madness that comes to anyone's mind can't be served as normal and human rights. What difference does it make for individuals who consider themselves Napoleon and those who imagine that they are of a different sex or something? They both need help, not push. Moreover, the Istanbul Convention's provisions, which oblige women to adopt migrants due to domestic violence, gender discrimination, etc., create a situation where there is no longer any obligation to give asylum to any woman and, later, to her large family from Africa, the Middle East or elsewhere. There is no need for persecution, fear or alleged persecution is enough, and the Convention obliges them all to accept it. In Africa and Islamic countries alone, there are a billion women who meet these criteria because women are not known to be treated as equal to men there. Thus, the Convention is an immigration pump that will soon flood Europe with increasing momentum, as well as Estonia's immigrants. Is that what you want? We do not need the Istanbul Convention, we do not need it, because all forms of harassment, domestic violence, etc. are already deplorable in Estonia, illegal and punishable by law. That's what the previous speaker said here. We have criminalised all forms of violence committed against women in Islamic countries: genital mutilation, forced marriages, sexual harassment, harassment, etc. All positive aspects of the Istanbul Convention have been taken into account in Estonia and have joined them. Involvement with other radical and extreme things is out of the question, that would be insane. Ratification of the Convention means war against a normal society and brutal violence against common sense. It opens the door to mass immigration, takes away our self-determination and opens the green path to the dismantling and perversion of a society based on values. Ladies and gentlemen, You can't act like a roller coaster again and again. Remember that the vast majority of people support a normal and healthy society, normal family relationships, the existence of a mother and father. I am appealing to your heart and, above all, to your common sense: let's send this trash to the trash can! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U112	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U113	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U114	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the summer, I went to the Võru police and asked them what they thought was the biggest problem for the police. The answer was close-up violence. The police feel that they are left alone on this subject. Really, the police have a huge burden. Every year, the police receive more than 15,000 challenges related to close relationship violence. Fortunately, however, this problem is not simply left to the police. In addition to the national victim support system, we also have an all-Estonian network of women's shelters where, with the support of the state, but often also of private donations, victims of close relationship violence receive safe accommodation as well as counselling services. Statistics for the first five months of this year say that there were 2,676 nights in women's shelters, while children stayed in shelters for 1937 nights. In total, women's shelters gave support to more than 4600 victims in Estonia in five months, including 3300 children. The Istanbul Convention before you today sets out the direction in which we could move towards helping the victims and also in curbing the perpetrators of violence. The Convention stresses that all women and children who are victims of violence must receive special services. If this year the country allocated EUR 650000 to the women's asylum network, which is much less than last year, then EUR 770000 will be planned for the coming year for women's asylum. This is obviously progress and better than going backwards, but we should not stick to that amount. Sectoral experts have assessed that sufficient support for victims could be provided for EUR 1 million. I would remind you that the annual cost of violence in Estonian society is 116.5 million euros. Given that this is still a largely hidden problem between the homes and we are making an effort to make victims stand up for themselves and ask for help, we should increase the funding in this area from year to year. A separate issue, of course, is children who, I think, have the most important role to play in this chain of violence. If we are unable to support children who have experienced systemic violence, or who have seen it, in time, it is not only the personal tragedy of these people but also the fact that the lives of these children are very expensive for society, as they are often the victims of such children or the next perpetrators of violence. In order to help these children now and today, the entire social network must work together. These resources must be found in the system mess. The adult violent person is much more difficult to change, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't try. That is what the Istanbul Convention requires of us. If we don't try to get the perpetrator on the right track, the next victim will be in his path. For the first time in the budget for the coming year, EUR 50000 will also be planned for social programmes for those who commit violence. This is progress. Compared to five or ten years ago, as a country, we have made an important development leap in support of victims of close relationship violence, but that is not enough. I am very pleased that the Social Insurance Office, in cooperation with women's shelters, has started to develop effective programmes for victims of violence, including children, as well as for those who commit violence. I believe and hope that the first public procurement and the mistakes that have been made there have been learned and that we will move forward smarter. Intimacy violence is a widespread social illness that can be prevented and treated, but in the absence of treatment, it can result in suicide or murder, or in a broken soul or life. The Reform Party supports the ratification of the Instanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U115	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U116	Dear Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, Today we are ratifying the Istanbul Convention. It is an international framework document aimed at ending violence against women. I think this is perhaps one of the most important public acts of this year that we are doing in this Chamber. Indeed, together with other social democrats, we believe in this. It's been a long way where we've moved on. We have done so within the framework of civil society, asylum and police hand in hand, but there have also been actions that have not been of little importance. Together with other women in the world, we have danced against violence, we have bowed our heads and lit a candle in front of the figures that mark women who have died from violence in Estonia. This has all led to this important event today. I am pleased that we are filling in one of the legislative gaps. We cannot bring back dead mothers, sisters, daughters, and women, but we can reduce and end the suffering of women suffering violence. That's the name of what we did. It is extremely important that the Istanbul Convention is adopted right now, in 2017, when we are the Presidency of the European Union. By doing so, we signal that we expect the same from all the Member States of the European Union: violence against women must be stopped. The Social Democrats, of course, support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U117	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U118	Ladies and gentlemen, Family is usually something that belongs to the private sphere. The state, the municipality or other people have nothing to say about how you should live, who you should love and what home you should live in. It's the freedom of all of us. But there are some limits. There is a well-known theorem that private matters are also political, private is political. This sentence describes precisely the problems that we are discussing today and which have been dealt with in the Istanbul Convention. If one member of the family kills another, if one member of the family gets beaten up, if parents beat up children or each other, then we can't say it's a private matter of the family. Although there are also women who are perpetrators of violence, statistics say that it is mostly women who suffer from violence. Preventing violence against women is therefore a reasonable term. Of course, we are also talking about domestic violence at all. Once again, there are things that happen at home that happen in the family, but that still belong to, and must be the subject of public attention. The public and the state must and we must come to the aid of those who are weaker, those who are persecuted, those who are taunted, those who are beaten. Our duty as a society is to help them. Does this somehow pose a threat to normality? On the contrary! When we think in private about what a normal family is, I hope everyone thinks it's a family where people love each other, where they care about each other and help each other. A family that is violent is not normal. This convention and its ratification means that we all decide that violence is not normal, especially violence is not normal in the family. That is why the Centre Party supports this convention and we are proud to ratify it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U119	I'm closing the negotiations. No amendments to draft 475 were tabled and the proposal of the lead committee is a final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on draft law 475 on ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. There are 79 members of the Riigikogu and 6 against, with no abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U120	The second reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean initiated by the Government of the Republic follows. The Foreign Affairs Committee waitress is Anne Sulling. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U121	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean was completed last week on 13 September. The objective of the Foundation is to strengthen the cooperation and political dialogue between the Member States of the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean. No amendments were tabled by 4 p.m. on Friday 15 September. At its meeting on 30 August, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to put the draft 446 on the agenda for the second reading of the Riigikogu plenary session on 20 September. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to conclude the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U122	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 446. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act on ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 446. Please take a stand and vote. 71 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of adopting the draft 446 as a law, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The Act on the ratification of the Treaty establishing the European Union and the International Foundation for Latin America and the Caribbean has been adopted.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U123	Second reading of the draft Act amending the Law on the Protection of Animals, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 445. Siret Kotka-Repinski, Rural Affairs Committee waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U124	Good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! The Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the Law on Animal Protection initiated by the Government of the Republic on 12 September. Apart from the members of the committee, Mr Sirje Jalakas, Head of the Food Safety Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and the Head of the Office for Animal Protection and Breeding of Agricultural Animals, Elis-Kitter Müürsepp, Adviser to the Legal Department, Kadri Taberson, Member of the Management Board of the NGO Animal Welfare Organisation, and Annika Lepp, Communication Manager, and Lauri Viikna Tivoli Tour OÜ. The Commission had received one amendment replacing the words 'of such species or subspecies' with'such' in subsection 27 (3) of the draft. All the members of the Commission agreed, the decision to support this proposal was adopted in a consensual manner. It was also decided to propose that draft 445 be placed on the agenda for the plenary session by 20 September 2017, to propose that the second reading of draft 445 be terminated and, if the second reading is completed, to send draft 445 to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U125	Questions for the waitress. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear waitress, A purely technical question. How will it be made clear which animal is born in captivity and which animal is not? Is it necessary to take fingerprints or chip them? Who will determine where this animal is born?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U127	The draft law deals with which animals could be shown at public exhibitions, circuses, and fairs. The list shall be drawn up by the Minister by means of a decree. The Ministerial Regulation is based on a proposal from the Committee of Experts that these animals may be shown. It doesn't directly concern who was born where. But if the question is who is going to determine it, then I can say that we did not address it directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U128	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U129	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Does this bill also define the participation of pets in the pet exhibition? Their voluntary basis, how can this be confirmed?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U130	Once again, if you make a bill, you will see that there is a ministerial decree as a model. The Ministerial Regulation gives a sample of quite a large number of animal species that can be shown at public exhibitions and fairs. This list is not final, it is open. If a person wishes to make a public display of an animal, he or she shall submit a request, the panel of experts shall examine it and the minister shall always be able to supplement the regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U131	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U132	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Two associations from all stakeholders took part in the Commission meeting. But at the same time, you asked for opinions from a large number of interest groups. Would you also present the views of the other groups involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U133	I'm afraid I don't have them here right now. As far as I know, it was not only the NGO's animal welfare organisation but also Lauri Viikna who gave lively feedback and wished to participate in the committee meeting. This draft law has been dealt with for ten years in my opinion and, at ministerial level, very many parties have been involved in its development. As far as history is concerned, five ministers have dealt with it, and the legislative amendment that is before you today is, you could say, the result of a great consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U134	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U135	Thank you, Chairman. Good Siret! I'm just asking you to let everyone know that there are no circuses in Estonia currently using animals?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U136	There is no permanent circus in Estonia; travelling circuses are performing on Estonian territory.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U137	Helir-Valdor Seeder, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U138	I'm asking you to understand more precisely. Is it still possible or not to use pets and farmed animals in the circus in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U139	When we're talking about pets and pets, they're also in the model of the minister's regulation. There are no problems with these animals in this sense, they can be shown at fairs and animal exhibitions, it's all allowed. It is only about wild animals that are not mentioned in the Ministerial Regulation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U140	No further questions. Thank you, Siret Eagle-Repinski! I'm opening negotiations. Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U141	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, animal guards! If the 20th century was a woman, then this, the 21st century is a century of animal deliverance. With today's draft, we are moving again towards a fairer and better world. Using animals to entertain a person in a circus is a custom that has lived up to its time. In a short period of time, animal welfare issues have reached the public interest in Estonia. People are making efforts to ensure more and more the dignity of animals and their good species of life. More and less frequent people hear directly the anti-animal arguments that were common about a dozen years ago. Then it was said that as long as there was no guarantee of the welfare of every human being, there was no reason to work for the animals. Now we don't think like that, because standing up for the interests of animals doesn't in any way reduce the chances of standing up for the welfare of other living creatures. People's lives don't get worse when animals are better. Even so, as long as animals suffer, it is also bad for a lot of people to be. A few decades ago, under pressure from animal law enforcement, the rejection of pets and cases of animal torture in everyday life became a political agenda. Now Estonia is also looking out for the elementary welfare of birds from cana. At the moment, standing up for the rights of chickens still seems like a joke to many in this hall, like the problem of keeping dogs chained in the 1990s. But the more time goes on, the more people will watch, for example, how the food they consume is produced. If the rights of animals are otherwise frozen, the scope of the animal rights could be wider as an influence on food quality. When people no longer buy unethically produced food of animal origin, the practice of merchants and producers will also change. The theme of pets and chicken farms includes keeping animals on fur farms and closing farms, long-distance transport of animals, farming conditions, methods of killing animals and the use of animals for entertainment purposes. The prohibition of animal circus has been an important issue in terms of upholding animal rights. Today, we can also use animals for entertainment, for example, by means of technology. We can look at animal life very closely, we have owl, wild boar and eagle cameras. Animal jokes in circuses, haunting badgers dressed as old-fashioned margaritas, or swimsuit bears, stop laughing but weeping. The graceful cats jumping through the burning rings, scented by the fury of the desert, are simply horrific as a sight. Animals are more fun and fun in their natural state. Man doesn't have to drag them into hard jokes framed according to his own scripts. In the circus, people could first and foremost demonstrate their skill and ability: human acrobats, clowns, and firecrackers. Circus has become a more aesthetic and ethical, even a separate art form. Take, for example, the French circus, the often gastrolitating Cirque du Soleil. Many cities in Estonia have already decided that they do not want to see circus groups that carry animals around in tight conditions, so that they can lower their dignity in the circus arena. Now is the time to do the national regulation. Let us remember that the ban on animal circus was also relevant in 2005, when the Minister of Agriculture was Ivari Padar. Then the draft did not reach the Riigikogu, but now there is hope that the teasing of animals will really be stopped. The aim of animal protection is to minimise unnecessary and avoidable suffering. In addition to reducing the suffering of animals, it is also important to reduce the psychological suffering of people exposed to animals, such as their trainers and growers. What is the effect of whipping and spanking big, dignified creatures on a person's psyche in order to get up on their back feet or make a rooster ball? In the case of circuses and fairs, the safety of visitors is also important because the humiliated animals become evil. Man's relationship with animals is constantly changing, and the goal is peaceful coexistence with as little suffering as possible. The banning of animal circuses is a major step towards the release of animals. The Social Democrats support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U142	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. One amendment to draft 445 has been tabled, which is from the lead committee. No problems. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of the draft. The second reading of Bill 445 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U143	Next on our agenda is the first reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement (CETA) initiated by the Government of the Republic between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other. The rapporteur for the initiative is Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U144	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of Foreign Affairs is on a trip and asked me to replace him and present him with a government report, which I will then do in front of this high house. A long-made beauty! For five years, negotiations on this trade agreement have been ongoing, with strong internal political feelings and interests in several Member States of the European Union as well as in Canada. But now the situation is that it is tomorrow, 21 September, that the provisional application of this agreement will begin. This is a specific mixed agreement, which means that full entry into force will require the approval of all national parliaments and may, in a realistic way, take a year or two depending on the ability and willingness of the countries to approve this agreement. However, the agreement is provisionally applicable from tomorrow and, in essence, this temporary application means that the impact is already extensive. This is an important agreement for the European Union as a whole. This is the most comprehensive free trade agreement the European Union has managed to negotiate with a third country. Analysis shows that this agreement should increase bilateral trade by nearly EUR 12 billion per year. There is no doubt that both entrepreneurs and both partners will benefit from this in general. What really is the purpose of this agreement? Remove customs from trade and ensure trade mark protection, as well as ensuring that both partners, i.e. all Member States of the European Union and Canada, can also enter the public procurement market of the other party. In addition to the overall large-scale impact on economic relations between the European Union and Canada, this agreement has a practical and positive impact on Estonia as well. Canada is our ninth export partner outside the European Union. Our trade balance is largely a positive balance because, for example, in 2016, when we exported more than EUR 100 million to Canada, imports are nearly four times less than EUR 24.3 million. When it comes to basic export articles, the things that Estonian companies have exported to Canada, such as fuels and mineral oils, have had a 5% inch, yeast and furniture have had import tariffs of up to 8%. I mean, our goods, i.e. those made here in Estonia, have had higher prices in Canada. But from tomorrow, not figuratively speaking, but literally from tomorrow, these tariffs will fall down. Therefore, we hope that our goods will also be more competitive. As I said, the Canadian public procurement market will also open to Estonian entrepreneurs, then Estonian companies will be able to participate either jointly or alone. As I said, this is a positive step in the European Union's view and it is also a positive step in looking at the interests of Estonian entrepreneurs. So I would ask the High House to discuss and support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U145	Questions for the initiator of the draft. Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U146	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! My question comes from your almost last sentence on customs tariffs and that they will start to fall from tomorrow. It's not exactly the same, as you know. However, the negotiations on agricultural products were very difficult and did not go so well. Does this tariff reduction also apply to all agricultural products? I've heard that chicken and eggs, for example, are out of it. Is that true?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U147	Thank you. Yeah, that's the correct explanation. I mentioned, for example, two groups of goods where these tariffs disappear in full. Agricultural products are a very sensitive issue in all the countries of the European Union and, obviously, also in Canada. Upon the entry into force of this Agreement in its entirety, 99% of the customs duties will be abolished in the General Plan. As far as agriculture is concerned, as always, all negotiations are such that they must be dealt with as a whole. The negotiations concluded that the European Union is losing 96% of tariffs, Canada 92.9%. With wine and alcohol at all, European Union producers will have full access to the Canadian market. Customs tariffs will also be abolished in full from export products of European Union importance, such as candy, baking and fruit and vegetables. As far as certain specific groups of goods are concerned, the agreement is that volumetric quotas are in place. European Union producers are able to sell 18500 tonnes of cheese to Canada. The European Union, in turn, has raised the quota for beef to 46000 tonnes. The European Union, in turn, has introduced a quota of 75000 tonnes for pigmeat coming from Canada and a quota of 8000 tonnes for sweet maize. There shall be no liberalisation in trade of chicken and turkey meat and eggs and egg products. Five years were discussed, but no agreement was reached on the eggs. It's a result, and there's no point in halving things with jokes. The most sensitive issue, as the questioner rightly pointed out, was agricultural products. After all, the European Union is a customs union, countries have very high price barriers to protect their producers and their way of life. On this basis, it can be said that this is the subject of free trade that is the narrowest deal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U148	Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U149	Thank you, Minister. This agreement contains another very sensitive area, namely investment protection points and the investment court system. It creates this kind of institution that allows private companies to circumvent national law, because these problems are discussed in essence in private arbitration rather than in national courts. While this issue has improved during the negotiations, it still threatens the ability of countries to freely shape their laws in the public interest. Belgium has referred the matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union in order to assess the compatibility with European law of the part of the investment court of that agreement. Would you like to comment on these problems? Aren't we in a hurry to ratify this Treaty? Perhaps we should wait for the Court's assessment to see if this is an agreement that is compatible with European law at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U150	Thank you. In Belgium, this was a very serious domestic political affluence, particularly in terms of consumer protection and economic interests. The Walloon Parliament, as we know, did not ratify this agreement initially and then a special declaration was made. The problem was also on the table. In order to reach a political agreement also in Belgium, Belgium requested the Court of Justice this month to give an opinion on whether the investment court system contained in this agreement is compatible with European Union law. This system is structured in such a way that it does not create legal confusion, but in specific trade disputes it is actually mandatory and directly applicable. Belgium's position, which has also been expressed to the public, is such that they will not ratify this Treaty until they have obtained the opinion of the Court of Justice. Since the courts are slow to grind, it may take years to do so. Due to our legal expertise, the Estonian state did not see the problems that were highlighted by the Belgian investment court system. See what the logic of the investment court system is, or why was it even mutually agreed? It also gives investors a certain degree of certainty. There is a clear scheme of how decisions can be achieved bilaterally, in parite terms. It is the most important thing in business life that there is an understandable scheme for reaching decisions that take account of the legal order of both parties, of all the Member States of the European Union and of Canada. In itself, this scheme should still favour trade and mutual business, and it should not be a mechanism to drive anyone out of the market. So in the opinion of the Estonian state, this was not a problem with signing. This agreement was signed last year. But now from the fact that Belgium has turned to the European Court of Justice for an opinion. If, in essence, this issue was not a problem in our country's opinion, then, I think, it is not a problem either that Belgium wishes to seek legal opinions for internal policy or legal reasons. It's their right. Each country organises its own affairs on the basis of what they consider to be important and what they do not consider to be necessary for any additional legal guarantees. What will this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union become? I mean, not a decision, but an opinion. I would like to emphasise this, because the opinion may be the basis for further possible legal disputes, but the opinion is not a so-called unwavering condition for the temporary entry into force of this agreement. It is quite clear, as I said, that Belgium's view is that it will not sign it before it does. Consequently, this agreement will not be able to enter into full force until the opinion of the court is reached.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U151	There are no further questions for the initiator of the bill. Thank you, Minister of Justice Urmas Reinsalu! The rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs is Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U152	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is indeed a very important international agreement not only for the European Union as a whole and Canada, but it is certainly also a contract that creates new opportunities for Estonian and Estonian companies. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has given quite a lot of attention to foreign trade issues both this year and in previous years. These discussions have always raised the question of what steps, both by Estonia and, above all, in the context of the European Union, we have given the European Commission the right to negotiate in the field of foreign trade, to increase our export capacity. Free trade agreements, as well as the negotiated agreement between the European Union and Canada, will certainly increase the export capacity of our companies. The Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the preparation of the draft for the first reading at its meeting on 30 August. During the debate on the draft proposal, Minister for Foreign Affairs Sven Mikser presented the substance of the draft. The Commission received an in-depth review of the process of preparing the agreement and of the possible effects on the European Union and, above all, on Estonia. But this morning, in cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Representation of the European Commission and the Canadian Embassy, we conducted a seminar where, from the point of view of the European Union, Estonia and also Canada, the Director of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Trade Signe Ratso, the Head of the Vilnius Representation of the Canadian Embassy Beth Richardson and the head of the Estonian Piano Factory, Indrek Laul, who has more than 20 years of experience in business relations with Canada. Representatives of several Estonian business organisations were also heard. I believe that this hour and a half this morning gave additional important information to anyone who is interested in both the substance of this agreement and the exploitation of the opportunities created by it. Indeed, as the Minister of Justice mentioned, it is precisely from tomorrow, or 21 September, that this agreement will enter into force temporarily and the customs tariffs will disappear to 98%. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu at its meeting on 30 August, after hearing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, made the following procedural decisions by consensus. It was first proposed to send a draft to the 466th plenary session for first reading on Wednesday, 20 September and the Commission's proposal to conclude the first reading. When the first reading of the draft is completed, we propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 16.00 on Friday 22 September. By decision of the Commission, Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is the rapporteur for the draft. In addition, the Committee on Foreign Affairs decided that when the first reading of the draft was completed, the Riigikogu Board would be invited to send the draft 466 for the second reading to the Riigikogu's plenary session on Wednesday 27 September. I will simply tell my good colleagues, for clarification or information, that Latvia, Denmark, Spain, Malta and the Czech Republic have ratified this agreement in addition to the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U153	Questions for the Commission rapporteur. Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U154	Thank you for that good overview. Canada is one of the countries that is not very good in the International Labour Organisation, especially because there are constantly problems with trade union rights. Indeed, Canada has only recently ratified the last Convention on collective bargaining and will be in force next year. While there are general references to human rights and workers' rights in this agreement, there are no binding requirements for the protection of workers' rights in this chapter. Do we not have the fear that, although this agreement is good for businesses, it violates workers' rights and encourages the activities of companies that want to make profits by exploiting workers rather than making the best possible product?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U155	Thank you, good Oudekki! You were in the morning, I commend you! In addition to the speaker here, the only member of the Riigikogu at this seminar. I think it also turned out how difficult the process of creating this agreement has been. Indeed, this is a comprehensive economic and trade agreement and, moreover, the European Union and Canada have negotiated a strategic partnership agreement which deals with a number of aspects that you may have highlighted in your question. I do not want to reply in a terrafaretic way that the question was not raised in this way at the committee meeting, nor did the Minister in his presentation speech in our committee address it. I would like to stress that Canada is the rule of law and that these problems, which may interfere with good business practice in one way or another, are likely to be resolved in the same way as in Estonia and in the other Contracting Parties. I think it is very important to understand that such a contractual base, which we are also creating through this free trade agreement, is exceptionally positive at a time when a great deal of speculation is being made about whether the traditional world order that has brought us great benefits as a free country will not become the past at all. On the contrary, I think that Canada and the European Union, through this agreement, are, in many ways, also setting an example in which direction we could take. Previous free trade agreements signed by the European Union with other countries, such as South Korea, where I had the opportunity to stay last week, show that they have had a very positive impact, namely in terms of job creation, investment and also increasing trade. Over the last year alone, the European Union has increased its exports to South Korea by more than 50%. I have no doubt that although Estonia's trade balance with Canada is quite modest, around 130 million euros, the loss of tariffs and the clarity of the so-called legal language in bilateral trade relations will enable Estonian and Estonian entrepreneurs to win a lot, and I believe that Canadian entrepreneurs will also be able to win.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U156	Thank you, Marko Mihkelson! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. There's no call. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 446. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft at 4 p.m. on 22 September.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U157	First reading of the draft law amending the Penal Code initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws (amending the treatment of juvenile offenders). Initiator waitress Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U158	Honorable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable House of Highness! This draft is actually related to the draft Social Welfare Act 360, which is also in the proceedings of the Riigikogu, and they form a single whole, the purpose of which is to repeal the Juvenile Influences Act and abolish minors' committees. On the other hand, it is the task of the draft law 453 to amend the rules governing criminal proceedings, which refer to juvenile commissions, and to establish a new treatment system for juvenile offenders. What is the actual situation? We now have two separate units or a "corridor" along which a minor offender runs. One is the same system of influence built on juvenile commissions. The second is a system of punishment, where the minor is treated separately and is sentenced to a penalty corresponding to the act. But evidence-based studies and experiences have shown that there is nothing to say that in reality young people are in the path of repeated crimes. The younger a person commits an offence and the harder that offence is, the more likely it will be for him to act again. However, our central objective in criminal policy is to reduce recidivism and recidivism. Another fact is that punishment in itself, as has also been shown by studies, does not particularly mitigate the risk of reversibility. On the contrary, it can lead to a certain application of punishment. If, for example, a young person has passed a detention facility or a prison facility, and in a civilised country it is not known to be any kind of inhumane environment, then he has experienced that there is nothing outrageous about it. Consequently, the deterrent effect of the punishment may fall. Therefore, we want to reduce reversibility, above all by influencing a young person. With this draft, we have in itself moved from the judicial system, the prosecutor's office and the police system to a system of specialised experts, dealing with minors. We have this ability. A clear principle is actually established: for juvenile offenders, the primary route to be chosen is to influence both the prosecutor's office and the courts in responding to these offences. If there are serious, serious offences, it is, of course, possible to apply all the rules laid down in the Penal Code, including deprivation of liberty, depending on the seriousness of the act. But the general assumption is still leverage. To this end, the draft provides for a set of sanctions that can be applied to both misdemeanours and crimes. The most lenient is the warning. This is one of the most serious forms of influence currently applied by the Committee on Minors. A young person is called before the Commission and can then be admonished there. Hopefully, a judge's warning in the glar will be a more effective leverage for a young person. In addition, a social programme is compulsory. There is now another important element: compensation or redress. In fact, it is the means of action or the circumstances of the case that the judge specifically determines the compensation/reparation of such damage, or the prosecutor applies for it strictly unfettered. It's up to the judge. That is what this means, to illustrate: in the case of shoplifting, where ice creams or the like have been eaten, the judge can make a young person wipe it out of the store and make up for what he has done. Conciliation service. A very important thing, because a young person must understand the nature of what he has done. How difficult it is even for an adult to admit that yes, I did wrong, I'm sorry, I understand the nature of my act and error. This is one of the leverages that can be imposed. Complying with behavioral control, again a very important thing. We actually have a rather well-built criminal custody network, which we are currently using, in particular, in the case of people released from prison early. Now we're saying it's also leverage. There are professional parole officers you have to go to every week. If you go to school, follow the ban on alcohol and smoking, and the probation worker gets feedback on it, you have some kind of anchor. As we know, on very many occasions, especially in the case of serious offences, these are families where parental supervision is unfortunately not realised. Family relationships are complex, and parents are unable to perform their human tasks for various reasons. A community service. Look, you're gonna be robbing Kadriorg Park for up to 60 hours. Application of the restriction on freedom of movement. That means you don't come straight home from school and go wandering around. You're not going to Viru Center. You're sitting at home. If you break it, the more serious tools will, of course, be removed from the closet. There is also the possibility of subjecting a person to electronic supervision, so that is just more effective. If he's got a sensor that defines where he is, then no one has to sit on him separately. Of course, there will also be the possibility of placing a minor in a closed childcare facility instead of imprisonment. A similar directory is provided for offences. In addition, it has been stated that other relevant voluntary commitments may also be applied. This depends on the ingenuity of the prosecutor and the judge as to what type of obligation a young person could be given. The purpose of the influence is that a young person understands the nature of his or her actions, regrets and tries to restore the damage caused by his or her actions. Whether it's harm to himself when he drank vodka or smoked weed, or it's damage to others when he destroyed someone's property or hurt someone. What's the big difference? The current penalty system is built on the fact that the main sanction, when we talk about offences, is a financial penalty. Who's gonna pay for it? After all, the fine is passed on to the parents, and the parents pay for it when they have the money. But in most cases, as we have seen, the link that a young person perceives the negative consequences of his actions and tries to remedy them is, unfortunately, extremely fragmented. We find it more reasonable to create a stronger link. In general, we have had a positive trend. The number of crimes committed by minors has fallen nearly three times in ten years, and the number of misdemeanours has decreased. What's important? I think it's a general attitude. The law on the reform of wrongdoing will also come to Parliament soon. We have too many people on the record right now. In fact, many people like the dog have this criminal record behind their tails. In the case of sanctions, there is a very clear direction that acts should not be entered in criminal records. A young person did what he did, we try to influence him, but our position is that in the case of the offences committed, there is no need to leave behind a trail that would send a person his whole life. The law should enter into force next year. The draft has been discussed with specialist experts and judicial authorities. I hope that this will in general have a positive impact. Two things: firstly, in a good way, we get control of the young people who have the potential for recidivism, and secondly, we are on the next step, i.e. in the next few years of human life, reducing the reclusive crime that is the most dangerous for our fellow people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U159	The round of questions will be opened by Jaanus Karilaid.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U160	Thank you to the manager. Good waitress! Please, just open up to the public. If one system, county juvenile commissions, is no longer working soon, but we know that there will be a resource of around EUR 200000 per year, will the role of child protection specialist, teacher's role, prosecutor's role, judge's role and police officer's role increase in the future? How is this scheme going to work exactly? Will the new system be granted only the same EUR 200000 or will other resources be found?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U161	Thank you. The question is, right now, if the money goes to EUR 200,000, we'll divide it between 15 counties. What I want to say is that those people who do their job in the Committee on Minorities are generally very devoted, they have done their job with a great deal of commitment. Surely I have reason to pay tribute to them in this chair. Now, it is clear that, of course, the profile of the roles changes to a certain extent. My focus is primarily on the justice system, according to the logic of this law. Of course, the attitude changes in the case of less dangerous and less serious offences to the effect of punishing. There will also, as I said, be an additional burden on probation officers. Now, the second element concerns the role of child protection workers and teachers. In the case of child protection workers, it is also clear that they are the 'centre' of community coordination. In fact, this has also been the case in the current system. We must understand that the Committee on Juvenile Affairs was not an immediate environment for dealing with a minor offender, with a specific child on his 'travel', was it not? It was just a county-level coordination place. The Commission did not come into contact with this child until a specific act was carried out. Above all, I hope that when it comes to minors with such a profile, who now need to be supervised, by probation officials who are people with psychological qualifications and relevant professional abilities, contact can become permanent. The contact depends on what the court has designated and what the maintenance officer chooses for such an "exposure." Like I said, money is distributed to the municipalities. It is clear that if you divide EUR 200000 between 15 units, there is one sum, but if you divide it between more than 70 units, the impact of that amount will be significantly reduced. So this EUR 200000 is certainly not the amount of money that goes into the juvenile leverage system on this scale. When it comes to what is really an additional resource for the institutions, the money is, of course, needed to implement the training system. People need to be aware of tasks that have changed according to a particular profile. The PBA estimates that nearly 1800 specialists are needed. The budget of the Ministry of the Interior will provide funding for further training. But, of course, we also intend to organise trainings for prosecutors, judges, probation officers using external instruments. As always, this system needs to change the information systems, etc. The question is that this is a change. Change must certainly be managed so that its participants and the number of participants is wide . they can understand what is under the authority of an institution and who will implement and what are the aspects. What is important is that we are now trying to treat the system as a whole. To this day, to be honest with you, this system has been essentially a separate education system, separate county councils for minors and a separate system for the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. In addition, the justice system was divided into two parts: the police officers in the Ministry of the Interior and the prosecutor's office in the area of administration of the Ministry of Justice. Now we're trying to create a complete model. Will it materialize? I do have the conviction, without going pathetic, that a change in view of the future is a sensible change that has been suggested to us by international experts. In many countries, it has produced good fruitage.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, Just in case, I would remind you that at first reading each member of the Riigikogu has the opportunity to ask up to two questions. If you ask a whole bunch of questions, for example, the answer may forget the fourth question, as long as the listeners do, and no one knows how many questions it was, which now came up with the answer. Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U163	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have very well explained the important aspects, the transformation of the whole system and the fusion of the whole system in the presentation of the draft and in your reply. It's been really enjoyable to listen to. But my question concerns the juvenile committees. Losing them and transferring tasks to municipalities is still very urgent. Are and how many of our municipalities, which are now changing, even ready to take on such a great task? How do you rate it? Could this process be a little longer?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U164	Thank you. For some reason, the whole Free Party Group is cracking, I see, but such a good mood, of course, gives some energy to spice up such a serious subject. The question now is that when the new system was developed, the representatives of the authorities who were preparing it were convinced that the transition would be managed. But I would like to point out that this role will be taken away from the juvenile committees if we are now trying to visualize this system of sanctions, which concerns the application of sanctions to the justice system itself. It is not a matter of local governments. And, in fact, this double burden in this case does not go beyond the fact that all the work previously carried out by county-level juvenile affairs committees will be carried out by child protection specialists. The impact system actually comes with a large number of people for whom it becomes, let's say, responsibility in terms of their profile. As I mentioned here, police officers, prosecutor's office, parole officers, judges. Their credo will be that, in the case of young people who have committed offences, our aim is not to punish them. Punishment is an option if we are really talking about the overwhelming, very dangerous, serious crimes that are unfortunately committed by minors as well. For young people, it's still an influence. Today we can talk about whether the municipal child welfare specialists can handle this. With this, we have already moved into the 360 framework of the draft. I am sure that in the Committee on Social Affairs this issue has also been looked at and perhaps analysed with representatives of the local governments. I, when presenting the second part of this bill, have done so in good faith, knowing that it can be realised in this way. Of course, this change is a very rapid reform of rural governments in a very short period of time, a reform of local governments, a reform of this subject. Let's say one change is going to chase another. But maybe its rational logic is also that if there are several different levels of change, they can be implemented in parallel because the system is being rebuilt anyway. It probably has its own logic not to cut the dog's tail by slices, but it makes sense when the system and its organisational structure change, to do it as a whole, together.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U165	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of Justice! In your report, you have highlighted as a positive effect in this bill that juvenile delinquency will no longer go much further into the registers and will no longer be sent negatively in later life. Can I get a little more specific on that, please? Doesn't anyone ever go into that register again? Will this also affect retroactively the offences of minors who have now grown up and maybe look a little jealous on this new generation because their own are not going into the register, but the history of previous infringements is all in some files for a long time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U167	The cases in which sanctions are imposed instead of sanctions will not be included in the register in the future. The punishments go. Understandably, it is not realistic that, if, for example, in 2009, we have punished a minor for smoking and imposed a financial penalty on his parents, then now, eight years later, when a man is already working, he is working at a gas station, he is informed that you have been rehabilitated retroactively and that you have been given a leverage. That's not what we're gonna do afterwards. I think it would be rationally confusing. However, the question that has been discussed is justified, that if we come with a package of amendments, we intend not to register, for example, speeding, etc., any of the wrongs of the past that we are currently dealing with at least one third of the annual penalties, should be deleted from the register. We had this discussion at the Ministry of Justice. I think that would make sense. But there's got to be a comparable level. For example, if we say that speeding by five kilometres from next year will not go into the criminal record, you will pay the sketchic fine for every kilometre, then I think it is also worth going over the past with a brush.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U168	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U169	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Who's gonna have the power to direct a special school, make a decision? Perhaps you will speak a few more words about the problems that have occurred recently. Is there something going on with special schools where teachers can't handle growing up? Is there any idea whether this situation should be changed in any way or whether everything will remain the way it has been?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U170	Is anything ever gonna stay the way it has been? Of course, this issue is more serious in the case of special schools, but it is also serious in the case of ordinary schools. As regards these measures and measures intended to ensure order for school staff, the Reform Party submitted a draft law last week, which also concerns this issue. The Minister of Education and the Minister of the Interior and I sat together a week ago and discussed both special schools and general education schools. We know there are border cases. For example, if a minor is in possession of an object that is dangerous to others or to himself or herself, this danger is also in a regular school, then it is elementary and reasonable that school staff have the right to dispose of it by a certain procedure. But there are also cases where the child has an aggressive disorder so that he or she can become dangerous to himself or others. That's what we've seen in the example of Tapa's school. I cannot support the current system with my low regulation. There is a need for change here, and I hope that the Minister of Education will present his proposals in the autumn. Everything must always be sane. Of course, the educational establishment is still an educational establishment, it's not a gendarmerie or a field unit. You asked who will have the authority to place someone in a closed childcare facility. Well, it's a court-martial. This is actually a serious restriction of freedom. A minor, a small person, also has rights. But if he's done what he's done, the court will decide. I think that makes sense. It's the nature of influence, if you can imagine, even in the case of a small person, the restriction of his freedom, isn't it? It's just like a grown man going to jail. It is such a serious restriction of justice that in the rule of law, I think it makes sense when a court does so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U171	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. The Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Jaanus Kariliid, will present the panel's report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 11 September. Members of the Legal Affairs Committee Uno Kaskpeit, Jaanus Karilaid, Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus, Valdo Randpere and Olga Ivanova were present at the discussion. Of what the Minister of Justice said today in this Chamber, many positions also coincide with what was said in the Committee on Legal Affairs. What the Minister of Justice has just spoken about was also spoken about in the Committee on Legal Affairs, and I would not repeat that again. But we also had a brief discussion on other issues. For example, Toomas Vitsut, a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, noted that the catalogue of sanctions applied to minors includes, among other things, compensation for damage, since a parent usually pays for a claim for damages imposed on minors, such punishment does not have the desired effect on the minor. He also considered that a parent cannot guarantee that a minor would not smoke or drink alcohol. The Minister of Justice, Urmas Reinsalu, replied this way: the main purpose of the draft is that the perpetrator perceives the consequences of what he has done and tries to make it right. Instead of compensation for damage, it is also possible to impose a penalty on community service, for example. According to Tanel Kalmet, an official of the Ministry of Justice, the prosecution of the case is personally approaching everything and can impose the most effective punishment in any particular case. Jaanus Karilaid wanted to know if, when juvenile commissions disappear, resources would be added. The official, Elise Nikonov, explained that the main reason for the disappearance of juvenile commissions was the disappearance of rural governments. The funds used by the juvenile committees were also very small, as mentioned above, EUR 200000 per year for all 15 rural governments. These funds will be allocated to the service of social rehabilitation and closed-end childcare facilities. The Social Affairs Committee's pending draft has not proposed any additional funding. It was stated that although the Ministry of Social Affairs has applied for EUR 600000 for a closed childcare facility, this resource request has not been met at the moment. Liisa Oviir wanted to know whether the proposed changes would further increase the burden on local child protection specialists. Elise Nikonov replied that according to the Child Welfare Act, the municipal child welfare worker must carry out the work related to the child's assistance. No new tasks will be put on the draft for child protection workers. The Minister of Justice added that there are two systems: influencing the minor and punishing the minor. It is assumed that a minor can be influenced by acquittal behaviour and that this is the main starting point. If influence is not possible, then the penalty system will be in place. As a result, an additional burden may arise for the justice system. Urve Tiidus asked me to explain what it means to be subject to behavioural control. According to Tanel Kalmet, conduct control in criminal proceedings means that an adult person must meet the probation worker regularly and comply with certain rules. For example, he must refrain from drinking alcohol or drugs and get to work. At that time, an explanation was asked as to whether there would be an increase in the remuneration of child protection workers, as their responsibilities would actually become even greater. Elise Nikonov explained that the State cannot decide how much the local government pays to its employees. The Ministry also takes the view that, as the work of child protection officers is very responsible, the local government should find enough people and internal resources to value this work. Mr Pevkur asked for clarification that, if a minor offender was discovered, how further proceedings would take place in the future. Kaire Tamm explained that the most widespread way of responding to the juvenile commission has been a warning. From now on, it will be possible to react more quickly, for example, the police can talk directly to young people, and the prosecutor who can apply sanctions must play a greater role. Valdo Randpere was concerned that the fine imposed on a minor for smoking or drinking would not affect the conduct of a minor. According to the Minister of Justice, the aim in future is not to register young smokers and alcohol users in criminal records. From now on, the police should limit themselves to a warning. In the case of cannabis smoking, the young person should be sent to addiction treatment. The Commission's proposal was to put the draft on the agenda of 20 September, with 9 in favour of it, against 1. It was decided to propose the termination of the first reading (by 9, against 1), to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 4 October at 4 p.m. (by 9, against 1) and to appoint a speaker as rapporteur. Jaanus Karilaid, Uno Kaskpeit, Raivo Aeg, Külliiki Kübarsepp, Hanno Pevkur, Liisa Oviir, Urve Tiidus, Toomas Vitsut, Hardi Volmer and against Valdo Randpere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U173	Any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. Thank you very much. If I wish, I will open negotiations for the political groups. There is no request to speak. The proposal of the commission is, as you have just heard, to conclude the first reading of draft 453. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline of 4 October at 4 a.m. for the submission of 453 amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U174	The seventh item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Defence Forces Service Act and other laws initiated by the Government of the Republic. I invite Ms Kaia Iva, Minister of Social Protection, to present her speech chair. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U175	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is true that the Government of the Republic of this multifaceted draft has appointed the Minister for Social Protection as rapporteur, and so I am happy to take stock of it. It is clear that this draft has been drawn up in cooperation with a large number of parties, including a very large number of ministries, but since it concerns pensions, I am the rapporteur for this draft. First of all, why such an initiative has ever arisen. This is one of the themes-drafts that have been discussed and prepared during a number of government coalitions and for quite a long time. It has been recognised on several occasions that the time for this change is ripe, that the system of special pensions needs to be changed. The current government coalition also set this objective in its action programme. Why is this being done? I'd like to list the main reasons. The first is that our demographic situation has changed: people live longer and our retirement age is also rising. From the beginning of next year, the retirement age will gradually increase until the age of 65, but at present, a special pension is paid from the age of 50 to 55, which probably does not follow this trend. Secondly, the special pension system is unsustainable. There are also situations where the recipient's pension is higher than the recipient's contribution to the pension system as a whole. So there is certainly a need to think about what to do in the interests of sustainability. The third important reason: there are very different and very many pension schemes. Moreover, it is clear that under these schemes people are treated differently and can also be said to be unequally. The audit carried out by the National Audit Office on the sustainability of the state pension system made some proposals. For example, prepare a scheme whereby people who start working in certain professions do not receive the right to a special pension, but those who are already in employment and are receiving a special pension would retain that right. It is recommended to replace special pension rights with other incentives, such as higher pay, more effective personal protective equipment, needs-based rehabilitation, etc. For these reasons, the objectives of the draft were to ensure equal treatment of persons in pension schemes, to reduce the financial obligations deferred for the payment of pensions and to ensure the sustainability of the pension system, to contribute to the achievement of the objectives set out in the strategy for growth and jobs in terms of overall employment and to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of social protection and inclusion by ensuring an appropriate and fair balance between contributions and benefits in pension schemes. What are the main changes to this draft? I'll bring out four blocks here. Firstly, special pensions will be abolished in such a way that those entering service from 1 January 2020 will not be entitled to a special pension. As of 31 December 2019, persons in service, as well as those who have acquired the necessary seniority to receive a pension at that time, with the exception of police officers who have left the service, shall remain entitled to a special pension. The second block: the defence forces are required to remain in active service without interruption. Thus, from 2020 onwards, in order to maintain the special pension right, the service must be maintained in a continuous manner. Thirdly, prosecutors retain special pension rights even if they do not retire from the prosecutor's office. Fourthly, the financing of active pension is amended. From 2019 onwards, on the basis of this draft, the pension share of the social tax payable under the State Pension Insurance Act would be calculated for old-age persons. So far, it has also been in the state budget. This excess, as well as the pension paid to working-age persons, is paid out of state resources which have not been collected from the pension's social tax. What effect will these changes have? It is clear that there is no significant impact at first, as the changes will have an impact over a long period of time. The number of pensioners continues to increase and the costs of special pensions are also increasing. The pensions currently in force will be granted for a further 30 to 40 years until all those concerned reach pensionable age. This money will be paid out for another 70 to 80 years, so the number of special pensioners will increase more than twice by the middle of 2040. Some 5,000 people are expected to receive a special pension at that time. Spending on special pensions will increase to 150 million during this period. The change will start to reduce the increase in costs in 20 to 30 years' time and, as has been said, from 2040 the number of special pensions will start to decrease and expenditure will also decrease. It is estimated that by 2065 special retirement pensions will be below 1000 people and pension costs will also decrease proportionally. If decided on the basis of the current calculations, this amount is approximately 83 million. Without the changes foreseen in the current draft, the cost of special pensions by 2065 would be estimated at EUR 225 million. As I said, this draft has been drawn up in cooperation with a large number of ministries and other agencies. It shall be dealt with by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Since they were asked there, we have both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Social Affairs, and I hope that this committee, too, has received them today, presented the comparative tables which, for each scheme, will be before and after. Details, there's a lot of bills in there. The waitress from the Riigikogu will introduce all of this here. There were many questions in the Commission, as well as suggestions on how to improve the draft. I believe that this will happen during the proceedings in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U176	Any questions for the waitress? Ants Laaneots, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U177	Minister, thank you very much. Rumours of changing these pensions have also reached and affected the public, with negative consequences, especially among young people. At present, young people who would like to go to military service and become professional officers or junior officers do not have the confidence that the future awaits them. One example: This year, only 50 students started studying in the Defence Forces United Educational Institutions instead of 70 planned cadets. I mean, there's no urge. This euphoria, which we had at the beginning of the 2000s in the field of defence, has been greatly reduced. I didn't understand you either: by 2065 the name of special pensioners will disappear, but it will be less than 1000. But where does the Defence Forces or the police go? And there are officers in the Defence League who are in active service. Secondly, has it been discussed whether future military personnel will receive, once they have completed their service, about the same level of pension, or perhaps even more than they have received so far, or will their pensions be treated as civil pensions?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U178	Thank you. The first question was about learners. At the moment, this urge should still exist, although you have confirmed that this interest has shrunk from year to year in recent years. But obviously young people are not affected by pensions. Those who are now studying could still earn a special pension. Studies and surveys have been carried out on this subject, and it can be seen that this is the case for those who are already in work, but especially for young people, the issue of pensions is relatively rear-end. Rather, the importance of working conditions and wages is considered to be what exists today. That's what's been important to them. But, as has been said, if someone has chosen their profession in view of the future pension, that is why the time for entry into force is so long that everyone's expectations can be realised. Now the question of what will happen to these pensioners in 2065. They just don't get a special pension anymore, they get a normal pension. Hence the answer to your third question: later, those entering this service will receive a pension such as that of all other people, on the basis of the same calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U179	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U180	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good minister! Please specify if I'm wrong, but I understand the prosecutors were granted an exception. They also receive the so-called pension supplement if they do not retire from this position. They can work elsewhere. Why has this exception not been granted to the entire security sector and to lawyers?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U181	Thank you. This law has also been prepared in cooperation with the three sectors that we are talking about here. In the course of the negotiations, a balance was sought and, of course, all if they were offered this pension would probably accept it kindly. The target group justified the exception granted to prosecutors by the fact that the profession of prosecutor 'inside' cannot move here or there. But right now, the D.A. has no obligation to work in this office until the end. He can be a judge in the meantime and still get that pension later. This is what has been agreed and found at this point in time. All these sectors have accepted this distinction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U182	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U183	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Secretary! Do you and your company take responsibility for the fact that in 2060 we no longer have soldiers, junior officers, officers, and patrol officers on the street? These jobs are not compared to those of those who work in a field or office.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U184	Thank you. We must assume this responsibility all together, because it is an important responsibility of the Estonian state, that all the structures you have mentioned work and work well. But it is also important to think about the methods used to ensure this. As I said, the main motivator is not pension, but other conditions, including the pay they receive, when they start this job. Special pensions are generally in place at times when the economic situation of countries is weak when it is not possible to pay today's salary. This issue must be considered, but as far as responsibility is concerned, the Riigikogu adopts laws in the Republic of Estonia. We have submitted a draft in our best knowledge and, as I said, in cooperation with the authorities. I hope that during the parliamentary procedure you will find places to improve there.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U185	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U186	Thank you. Good minister! I guess we in the Commission sensed that there was, in fact, no point of balance which you referred to when assessing the work of prosecutors and other authorities involved in national security. For example, when working in the Defence Forces and the police, there is an age ceiling and this automatically puts the sector in a worse position than prosecutors, for example. Now it's been a week for the circa. Have ministries already started consultations between themselves on what to do with this age limitation? Are the authorities ready to meet and resolve this matter as a matter of urgency within the framework of this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U187	Thank you. Now we are going to have a bit of a debate with the Commission, but I believe the Commission rapporteur will not mind if I speak with a few words. Indeed, some positions are subject to an age limit, which means that a person should resign and can continue to work only with a special permit. From the point of view of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it would, of course, be a good thing if this restriction were not there. I also dare say that the question arises as to whether such an age limit in the law is not also unconstitutional. How can it be decided, however, only on the basis of age, that a person should not work in one profession or another? A representative of the Ministry of the Interior assured us that they intend to review this whole issue next year with all the age limits that exist under different laws. This is a very far-reaching bill. This law would apply for a very long time. But we wouldn't mind if the decisions made next year would help to fix all of this. We would rather consider it positive if specific age limits were also reviewed during this procedure. There have been consultations, but it is clear that such a decision will not be taken very quickly, so today we said 'yes in principle' and tomorrow it will be there. But I repeat: this is an issue in the air now, and we would very much like to see a consensus on this, too, in this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U188	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is inspired by the question of Uno Kaskpeit. He thought that by 2060 there would no longer be people left in the professions that this bill calls for. Here's my question. Would you mention once again the amount that we may need in 2065 if these changes are not made? What's the cost? Secondly, do you rule out that, in the next forty years, however, it will be possible to pay an incentive salary in these agencies, which will also allow for certainty in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U190	Thank you. That is a very good question, and I am happy to repeat these figures. If there are currently 21 million special pensions, it would take 225 million, or ten times more, in 2065. The current special pension system postpones these obligations, largely postpones them for future generations. However, in answering another question, I stressed that people in these fields are not so interested in what kind of pension they are going to receive. They ask what kind of pay they get, what kind of working conditions they work in, in short, what conditions they are in now, today. And a person may want to think for himself how to collect his pension assets and what decisions to make today or even tomorrow. Of course, it is the duty of the Estonian state to pay a dignified salary in such important positions. This deferred commitment to the state, which is actually a special pension system, is basically saying that we are not paying very much at the moment, but you will never receive a special pension, is neither sustainable nor probably sensible. Looking back in history, the Roman Empire didn't fall because the barbarians came, but rather because the state was so busy because of special pension-like insurances that it was no longer financially strong. There too, soldiers were given forward - looking promises.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U191	Uno Kaskpeit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U192	Thank you. I have this question: have you examined the situation and experience of neighbouring countries with regard to pensions for these agencies? I know that in Finland, like our defence forces and policemen, there is a very different pension than ordinary people. However, it is not called a special pension, but a pension for the years it has earned. Do you have any data or plans to do some kind of analysis? I fear that this plan will eventually lead to the destruction of the defence and internal security of the Estonian state.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U193	When preparing this draft, these authorities undoubtedly had an overview of the experiences of the various countries. But it is always reasonable to consider the wisdom of other countries, knowing what is within our reach, and so to choose a reasonable and sustainable system. But I stress once again: in any case, it is necessary to ensure that our power structures, internal security and external security are on a solid footing. This is, in any case, important for the government, the Riigikogu and society as a whole.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U194	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U195	Thank you, Mr President. Very honorable waitress! One thing we all welcome is that different governments have kept the level of defence costs very high and will continue to do so as a priority. From the point of view of the Defence Forces, did the same issue of special pensions not be addressed in view of the same very high figure of 2% of GDP or a little more? Did it not appear that the amount that will be ten times higher in 45 years may not seem so insane in 2065 given inflation and our potential income?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U196	If we look at these figures now, it must be assumed that they take account of what is the current currency of the euro. They are certainly completely different in terms of the effects of inflation. Inflation factors are currently not taken into account. As regards the share of defence costs of 2% of GDP, this draft is intended to make an amendment, which I have already mentioned, and precisely to bring out the amount of old-age pension from the defence costs. As with everyone else, this pension comes from the part covered by social security contributions and amounts that exceed it as long as this part of special pensions runs from the state budget. Neither the previous government coalition nor this coalition have planned to make an additional scheme or exemption for this sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U197	Hannes Hanso.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U198	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! It is a major reform that is fundamentally important; it is absolutely clear. I would like to refer to some of the previous speakers who said that this is not a responsible step. That's exactly what he is. We also know the countries of NATO and the European Union where the amount spent on staff is up to 80% of defence expenditure because of pensions. If we also want to support the Defence Forces in 2060, which are capable of obtaining ammo and technology and are capable of fighting, it is quite clear that we cannot afford to lose control of our personnel costs. So this is precisely a sense of responsibility. And when we're talking about new people coming to the Defence Forces, they've been questioned and studied, how many priorities do they have in terms of special pensions? I mean, young people who first come into military service and then go to an officer's school. From the time I was a minister, I remember that there was no special pension at the beginning of the top ten.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U199	First of all, thank you for your support. Indeed, because of our sense of responsibility, we have prepared this bill. As far as I can remember, this factor is in row six. [[Someone's commenting.]] Seven? You see, we got the right number on the gang: not 6, but 7. The special pension is in seventh place. As I said, this is not among the priorities at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U200	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are different motivations for getting people into one position or another. In fact, more and more has been said about one motivator, which is already being implemented. It's a so-called "employer's pension." In the private sector, it is relatively easy to imagine how it works, but when we talk about the Defence Forces, the police and the prosecutor's office, whose budgets are set up with the possibilities of the state budget, it is unlikely that there will be a fund from which the employer, i.e. the police or the Defence Forces, should be able to pay it. Do you see that in this sector, too, there could be an occupational pension at some point, and if so, what would it look like?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U202	Employer's pension is the current cost of collecting pension assets for the future. The difference is that these expenditures are being made now, rather than postponed, and this expenditure is clearly understandable also for those who have to make these decisions. This draft law does not rule out the possibility of occupational pensions being paid, but it is certainly a forum for discussion. The question is whether we would prefer to have an occupational pension or say that we want to have a higher salary right now and make these decisions ourselves. This is also a place of debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U203	Ants Laaneots, third and, hopefully, not the fourth and fifth questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U204	The second question is mine, not the third! Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Minister, you mentioned that the Ministry has studied the arrangements for the payment of special pensions in other European countries for military and police officers in our sense. Would it be possible for us to have access to the data you've received?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U205	As I said, this analysis has, of course, been carried out most by the relevant authorities themselves and their leading ministries, but I hope that through the Commission and the Ministry you will also be able to see the data that exists.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U206	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! I liked your history when you answered my last question. But now I'm asking you for a future. After all, we read every day that technological transformation or revolution, whatever, brings robots, automatic and intelligent machines, etc. to a very large number of occupations. Can we even imagine a period of 43 years, for example? So what's the situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U208	Thank you for that question. I believe the questioner knows that a large part of the answer is contained in the question itself. For example, did we think five or ten years ago that we would soon be able to use drones for some kind of observation? We didn't think it would be like this. At all times, various instruments are added. Technology is evolving rapidly. Consider the situation over 40 years ago! But clearly, the human factor is always very important. People may shrink, but people are, of course, very important. That is why I also understand the concern we are discussing today that we are still thinking about people. Of course, in these areas too, people need to be thought about, but it is quite clear that technology and new developments are changing this work quite significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U209	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U210	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, My question is driven by the question of Urve Tiidus. Isn't this bill a little sci-fi? This perspective here is even the computational possibilities limited or, rather, the calculations are inaccurate. Is it really justified to adopt this law in this form now?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U211	Thank you. I believe that it is very much necessary to deal with this issue now, and this bill, perhaps in a slightly modified form, is still being turned into a law in the Riigikogu. As we have spoken here many times, we are now making commitments to the future with special pensions, making commitments to future generations. And yet there is no doubt that the Estonian state has a future and we must stand up for this future. This is the draft we are working on in order to shape the future of our country. This is responsible and necessary right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U212	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U213	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! There's a sentence in the explanatory memorandum that I'm asking you to make sense of. I don't understand it. 'There are no social and economic impacts and effects on national security and international relations. " This is a very bold and as if very unambiguous sentence. How would you think that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U214	Thank you. I would mean that at this point in time, when we say that our country is strong, our external relations are strong, external security is strong, we would not weaken all of this by this law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U215	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U216	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I heard the chairman of the National Defence Committee wept because a lot of money goes on those so-called special pensions that we could actually call earned wages for years spent on the state. We can also rename it. But my question is this: is the country so inflexible? We can transfer this money to another ministry's budget, such as the Social Ministry's budget, so that we don't spend so much of the defence costs on it, but the state still respects those people who have contributed to the protection of our country?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U217	Thank you. Honestly, my how do I say it? I'm a little short on my thinking ability to understand what you're thinking. If we move money from one ministry to another, is that how we're gonna get more money? No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U218	Mart Helme, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U219	Thank you. I'm sorry you didn't understand my reasoning. It was complained that this was a huge burden on our defence budget. But let's not spend it on the defense budget, let's spend the money on another ministry. The state must respect the people who have served it. If you're 50 years old and you're forced to leave the Defence Forces or the police because of layoffs or other reorganisations, what kind of work do you think you're gonna find? Doesn't the state have to appreciate these people for their contribution these years? This is not a question of my thinking. It is a question of a national wallet that can be viewed from different angles.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U220	Thank you. First of all, the assessment in your question that these people must be respected. As I have repeatedly emphasised: all these people and their work must undoubtedly be respected. And this respect must be expressed in the way they consider important, not in the way of commitments that they consider to be of no importance to the future. We must fulfil our obligation to them today by paying them a decent salary and ensuring good working conditions. I got your point. I got it last time I answered. Your claim is that if the expenses are raised from the Ministry of Defence's budget to the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is not the cost of the state. It's still the cost of the state. We'll have to find that money in the state budget. These are not stand-alone things.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U221	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I read in the explanatory memorandum that people receiving special pensions may receive even more pensions with the sum of the second pillar than their salary. At the same time, the total pension for the first and second pillars of the normal person amounts to about 40% of the salary. Are there any changes to the second pillar? If I were to withdraw the second pillar pension, I would get EUR 48 to 49 per month. It doesn't mean it's one quarter of my salary, so my salary should have been about 200 euros a month. How is it, is there any change in the amount of money, or how has such a calculation come to pass?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U223	Thank you. I suggest you read some sentences in the explanatory notes from the front. A situation has been described in which a special pension, plus the second pillar, is received. Once it has been collected, the interaction of the two-pillar agents is possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U224	Raivo Põldaru, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U225	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. But that's what I'm talking about! You see, there is a special pension of up to 75% of your salary, and if the total is higher than your salary, this means that the second pillar would be at least 25% of your salary. How is that possible for them if it doesn't work out like that for ordinary people right now? I mean the amount of the second pillar that is paid out every month?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U226	Thank you. The amount of the second pillar that is paid out depends on the length of the period of the collection of a particular pension asset.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U227	Thank you very much, dear waitress. No further questions for you. Now is the time for the presentation of the commission. Mr Raivo Time, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will take the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U228	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The 447 bill has been debated for a long time, and I think the picture has become quite clear. This has been a long-swinging process, at least ten years of discussion on how to approach special pensions. The final kick-off was this year's Government Cabinet Meeting of 19 January, which approved the proposal to implement the reform of the special pension for police officers, defence forces and prosecutors from 1 January 2020. The draft was not preceded by a plan for development, as the study session was given the task of drawing up the draft law immediately. This draft can be conditionally divided into two parts. One part is very long-term and concerns people entering the service of the police, the Defence Forces or the prosecutor's office after 1 January 2020. They're not gonna get a special pension. The second party to the Act regulates the receipt of a special pension for persons who are currently employed or entering the service of these agencies before 1 January 2020. The draft law consists of five sections. Paragraph 1 amends the Defence Forces Service Act, § 2 the Act on the Implementation of the Defence Forces Service Act, § 3 the Police and Border Guard Act and § 4 the Law on the Prosecutor's Office. Paragraph 5 provides for the entry into force of the Act. As has already been said, the current special pension system is quite nuanced. It has been adjusted at different times, based on one or another fact. I'll go over the current conditions quickly. The members of the Defence Forces shall be entitled to an active pension when they have reached the age of 50 and have at least 20 years of service. They will then be able to receive a pension of 50% of the last salary in the post where they have worked for at least 12 consecutive months. There is a possibility that this amount will rise to 75% of the salary if they work for at least 30 years, i.e. they have completed such a long period of service. In the police, the system is relatively similar. The difference is that, from 2010, the age must be at least 55 years instead of 50 years earlier. However, after 20 years of service, it is also possible to move to a special pension and then receive 50% of the salary plus the grade fee calculated on the basis of the highest salary in the last five years. Similarly, this special pension may rise to 75% of the salary if the person continues to work and is in the service for at least 30 years. Prosecutors will be entitled to a special pension when they have reached a general old-age pension, but they must have at least 25 years of service as prosecutor. The current law on the prosecutor's office is interpreted in two ways in the sense that it does not specify whether the prosecutor must work in the prosecutor's office or may leave it earlier until retirement age. Under current agreements, a person has to retire from the position of prosecutor. What does the draft in question want to change? I don't think you'd recommend much. The main point is that the conditions laid down in the Police and Border Guard Act remain valid even after the draft law has been passed into law. The same goes for the members of the Defence Forces to a large extent, except that the defence forces are required to have continuous service, i.e. in the meantime you cannot walk away. It's not like if you go away and, after a while, you come back to the military service, the new career will be aggregated with the previous one. By the way, there is no such requirement for police officers, and police officers may attend in the meantime. After returning to the service, they can sum up their careers. For the Public Prosecutor's Office, this would change so much that, under the current agreement, special pension rights would only arise when retirement from the prosecutor's office. The draft law gives prosecutors the opportunity to leave the prosecutor's office before their retirement age and, if they have a general retirement pension at all times, they will receive a prosecutor's pension. In a sense, this is an unequal treatment. These provisions can be reviewed here in the course of the draft procedure and the relevant authorities will be able to express their views. With regard specifically to the course of the debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs, as has been pointed out here before, the limit age of the service, which now depends on the rank of the Defence Forces. This is different: from 50 years of age to five years of age. All police officers shall have this age of 55 years and may be renewed by the Director-General upon request. It is not possible to do so in the case of militias. Like here today, there was a relatively long discussion in the Commission on one subject. I mean, we are creating a situation in which a person is entitled to a pension, which applies in particular to those who are still in service after 1 January 2020 when the general old-age pension is still in force, but this limit is still in force. In fact, it means that we throw a person out of the organization ten years before he can retire. He's been working for the country for decades, but we're saying go to the labour market now, register yourself unemployed, or see where you get the ten years, as long as you get your retirement age, for a living. A representative of the Ministry of the Interior confirmed that they are dealing with this problem. But I have understood that it is almost the wish of all Members of the Commission that this solution be laid down by the adoption of this law. The Minister, who spoke before me, feels that such an inconsistency may also be contrary to the constitution. In my opinion, the Chancellor of Justice has also pointed out that such an age-based censorship, without taking into account other circumstances, may not be compatible with the Constitution. So the most meaningful thing would probably be to cancel this age limit and allow people to work until retirement age is reached without being expelled from the organisation due to age. That would be humane treatment. It was somewhat surprising that we could not read any opinions about the bill except for the reserve officers' collection. The only thing was the entire opinion of the reserve officers on the bill; the views of the other members of staff were not communicated to us; I mean the police, the Defence Forces and the prosecutor's office. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs has sent out a request that the authorities still present their views to us. I think it would provide the Commission with additional support to deal with this problem further. The topic of discussion was also the pension of the employer who had already spoken, but quite quickly it became clear that it was a bit utopian when it came to the use of the state budget. In fact, this would mean that the employer's pension would have to be paid from the payroll fund. This assumes, however, that first an agreement must be reached between the employer and the employee, that the employee's salary is lower and that part of the salary is transferred to the future. But we can see how successfully or actually unsuccessfully these pillars we have been working on, I mean the second pillar where the state or other employer makes contributions, so apparently it is quite difficult to reach such an agreement. Finally, we have proposed that the draft be placed on the agenda of today's sitting and that the first reading be closed. The deadline for amendments would be 4 p.m. on 11 October 2017. I was appointed rapporteur. All the decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U229	The round of questions begins with Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U230	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Commission waitress. Once again, about pension rights and its motivation. At the end of page 24 of the explanatory memorandum, point 6.1.4. states: "Although pension rights are not considered to be the main motivation for entering the service, there is, however, an important added value which motivates individuals to attach themselves to these services for a longer period of time. There may therefore be a need to consider developing an additional incentive package to ensure that recruitment flows do not decrease and that incentives to remain in these services remain. " What motivational packages were mentioned in the Commission, if any?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U231	Thank you, good questioner! There was nothing else to talk about, except that I briefly stopped at this very employer's pension. In general, I think that I am kind of thronging into this area and this problem. At least I hope so. Indeed, studies have shown that when a young person goes to work, he or she generally does not think about retirement, its conditions, the retirement age, which will not reach him or her until 25, 30, 35 years later. However, these guarantees will be considered once certain criteria have been met for 10 to 15 years. Then the line of preferences is quite different than the 20-year-old. At some point, a special pension will play a pretty important role in getting a person involved with a particular employer as long as possible with the Defence Forces, the police or the prosecutor's office. If there is no binding motivation, it will be very easy for people to leave these positions at an active age. We are preparing people with very good professional qualifications for these professions, who can also succeed in other areas of life. The state resources that will be put into these areas are very large. Such training is very expensive compared to training for professionals from other professions. The base that is needed for police and military training is expensive, and the resources that are used for it are huge. There is a risk that people will be very well prepared, they will be in the best of their breakthroughs, they will be in the police or the Defence Forces for ten years, but they will find a new challenge, they will leave the service, and the country will have to step up recruitment in order to have the necessary human resources. It may not go down, but it could be even more expensive than paying special pensions. All of this should be analysed very well. But the general principle has also been that such special pensions will be abolished in very many other countries. However, they have not been lost in all the Member States of the European Union. It is in the old countries with long traditions that they still exist.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U232	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U233	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! We have repeatedly stressed in this Chamber that it is important for such socially sensitive and perhaps also somewhat painful but certainly important draft laws to have been drawn up as well as the intention to develop. Did the Commission point out that this draft law was not drafted and, if it did, how seriously?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U234	To be honest, the Commission did not pay any attention to this. I read it in the explanatory memorandum. Indeed, since the office was tasked with developing a draft law immediately, the intention to be developed was not addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U235	Thank you very much for the waitress. I am now opening a microphone for the representatives of the political groups for negotiation, for discussion of the general principles of the draft law. Eiki Nestor, representative of the Social Democratic Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U236	Honourable Vice President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I will start with three points. First of all, when you do interviews in different groups, I know one group where pensions are most important: they are pensioners. You can do ten interviews among them and always get the same result that the most important question is pension. If you ask young people and they have a sixth pension, that is a very powerful result. For these people, too, young people, pension is an important sixth place, a very good achievement. Secondly, there was the issue of responsibility. I must say that it would certainly be irresponsible to continue with the current system. And thirdly, I would like to thank my colleague Ain Lutseppa and my colleague Raivo Aegis. Thanks to Lutsep's good question and the fact that Time knew the subject, we finally started talking about the right thing. That's not what we said until then. But just so I'm clear, let me start with a little bit more general. The work of the 21st century, in general, we forget for a moment this bill is such that a person should learn more from working to successfully reaching retirement age all the time. It must move all the time, it must develop all the time: from the private sector to the public sector, from the public sector to the private sector, from learning to the private sector and, perhaps, back to the public sector. The way I say it, the need or the urge is mostly common in all disciplines. This is what a worker has to do in life to succeed and serve well, to cope with his own. It is the duty of the state, or our military, police and security authorities, as an employer, to take this principle into account that if a lawyer from the Ministry of Justice leaves his job and comes back in a circle, he is expected to learn something more. However, in the case of these works relating to security, I have a question, and I ask the Commission to think very carefully, do you expect that to be possible at all? Those who don't have that right have no incentive. The interest of the state is, in my opinion, that these people work in this system for as long as possible, because when they leave, they lose their professionalism. He's in the army or the police today, and if he stays in the labour market, he's gonna pick. Maybe he's getting paid more as a shipguard somewhere in India. If these people do not have this stimulus from the state, which Ain rightly asked about, there is a great danger that they are all on the labour market. And then the only motivator is the salary. There's gotta be some kind of motivation. In this sense, the employer's pension is not utopia. Raivo has rightly said that this solution is economically costly because, at the same time, the current special pensions will have to be paid out and the people who will be recruited should also be insured. I'm sure it's a big cost, but you can also plan it. On the other hand, there is also a subject that has already been mentioned: this pension right, which is going to apply earlier. It's possible to have a system like this. I don't know, Raivo Time used such a vivid expression that a person would be expelled from the organization. On the other hand, people often want to leave this job early. You can, for example, insure this early pension entitlement with an occupational pension. And then, when a person reaches a general retirement age, he begins to receive an old-age pension like everyone else. But this earlier right in certain works is important. After all, it is claimed that not everyone can do everything, to carry out their duties to a high age. After all, old age pension age is rising. That would be an option, for example. I'm asking for an extra minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U237	One more minute, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U238	So my suggestion is that you look at this problem in the Committee on Legal Affairs with the view of the state as an employer. I am just thinking about the incentive question. I believe for some reason that if we stimulate police and defence forces to work long-term in the state system, it will be an incentive. Not for a young man, but Raivo certainly knows this thing, and he said very nicely that if there are still 15 to 20 years left to serve, the person will think about it. It's exactly the same with a locksmith and a bus driver, and by the same logic, it always goes: age. But it could be our duty as an employer to think about how to find these incentives. Since the entry into force of the law is planned for 2020, there will ultimately be two and a half years to do the calculations it will cost. Right now, I hear the heads of the power structures complaining that people get too lazy before that and they don't have the guts to do anything anymore. I don't know, it's easy in the command system: do nothing, let go. Can't they just let go their old buddies in a human way? I understand that on the one hand, but if a person doesn't do anything, you have to let go.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U239	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 447. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for tabling 447 amendments at 16 a.m. on 11 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U240	Eightth item on the agenda First reading of the draft law amending the Law on fishing initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'd like a presentation of the speech chair, Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U241	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Honourable members of the Riigikogu! With the amendments to the Fisheries Act before you, on the one hand, we want to make the text of the law clearer and unambiguous, on the other hand, we want to clarify the contentious provisions of this law. Due to the current regulation on the replacement of free fishing capacity in the register of fishing vessels, the Ministry of Rural Affairs has also been sued in a business-to-business dispute. At this point, I will not go through all the clarifications of the wording of the law, and I will only mention the most important changes. The draft provides a legal basis for the register of professional fisheries and its establishment as a national register and lays down the grounds for keeping this register. Data relating to professional fisheries are currently collected and stored in the relevant database of the Ministry of Rural Affairs necessary for the record keeping and monitoring of professional fisheries both for professional fishermen and for fishing vessels. The establishment of a register shall allow the register to be registered in the national information system in accordance with the procedures laid down and shall interface it with other national registers for the exchange of data. This should further ensure that the fishing rights allocated to the permanent residents of the smaller islands are exercised by the permanent residents of the respective smaller islands and are not transferred to persons who are not permanent residents of the smaller islands. The draft also provides for the granting of fishing authorisations for the organisation of professional fisheries, the collection of data relating to fishing activities and the transfer of technical work related to the register of fishing vessels from the Ministry of Rural Affairs to the Food and Veterinary Office on 1 December of this year. 1 December is important because the activities related to the granting of professional fishing authorisations for the following year can already be carried out by the Food and Veterinary Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U242	Peter Ernits, a question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U243	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! There are many questions here, but the first one: is this law a plan to give 'better positions' to amateur fishermen by cutting off the rights of professional fishermen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U244	No, this law doesn't have a plan. The main aim of the Act is to transfer the register from the Ministry of Rural Affairs to the Veterinary and Food Board and to establish such a single register. This law will not change the order you have mentioned.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U245	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U246	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I've been looking into that chart of coordination. There has been a serious complaint from the Estonian Far-Aggregators' Association regarding the suspicion that all this transition to the Veterinary and Food Board could further fragment this whole thing on our fish market. There's this fragmentation anyway: the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Rural Affairs, now the Ministry of Rural Affairs is bringing in the Veterinary and Food Board. How would you essentially answer them? This answer here is not very substantive.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U247	Thank you. This concerns three companies, as far as I know. A professional fishing register shall be established as a national database and shall lay down the legal bases for keeping a professional fishing register. The register is necessary for record-keeping and monitoring of professional fishing and fishing vessels. These data are currently collected and stored in a database of records relating to professional fisheries at the Ministry of Rural Affairs which is not established as a national database. Two sub-registers will be included in the register of professional fisheries: the register of fishing vessels and the register of professional fisheries records. The Ministry of Rural Affairs shall be designated as the controller of the professional fisheries register and the Food and Veterinary Office shall be designated as the processor. So nothing gets more complicated for them. On the contrary, this register will be added to the other registers and nothing will definitely become more complicated for them.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U248	Peter Ernits, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U249	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! Maybe I get it wrong, but is it that the register of professional fishermen comes to the Veterinary and Food Board, but the recreational fishermen come to their Ministry of the Environment? Is that so, and if so, why aren't they in one place?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U250	Thank you. This question is largely due to the fact that we have fisheries divided between two ministries. These countries are few in the European Union where this is done. When we look at neighbouring countries, Latvia and Finland, agriculture and fisheries are under one ministry. As a result, we also have our own differences. Fisheries is divided between two ministries: the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs. I'm afraid that's true. Personally, I think it could all be under one ministry. As a politician, there could be anything under one ministry: land, forest and water.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U251	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U252	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. By reading the explanatory statement, it becomes clear that fishing is very detailed. When it comes to content, I recalled the words of the Chancellor of Justice, which clearly pointed out the need to amend the laws if their content is not in line with time. My question is about the national register of fishing vessels. Why don't you explain a little bit about what this substantial need is? Because the record of fishing vessels as such, I understand, is maintained, but just the word 'national' disappears. Is that it?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U253	Thank you. Of course, one more thing needs to be pointed out: the fishing authorisation will be granted in electronic form. That's one reason. And why is he a national register, why couldn't he be a ministry register? I have read in advance that the provisions on the use of available fishing capacity and the inclusion of vessels in the register of fishing vessels will be specified. In fact, the aim is also to ensure that these registers are in one place and interlinked. This register should not be attached to the Ministry; however, it should be a national register. The Ministry's register, of course, is also essentially a state register, but it is better to interface with the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U254	Honourable waitress! No further questions for you right now. The presentation of the commission is made by Andres Metsoja as a member of the Environment Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U255	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. First of all, I thank the Riigikogu's management that our agenda is logical. Before we talk specifically about this draft, the amendment of the fishing law, and only then will we talk about the organisation of the fisheries market. In essence, a very reasonable order. Indeed, in the Committee on the Environment, we closed the debate on the fishing law in the spring, and we will continue this now in the autumn. We discussed this bill on Monday, 9 September. Valeri Korb, Igor Kravtšenko, Andres Metsoja, Meelis Mälberg, Kalle Palling, Terje Trei and Elle Kaur and Vivi Older as advisors took part in the meeting. Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, Geir Veski, Counsellor of the Legal Department, and Kaire Märtin, Head of the Fish Stocks Department were also invited. Basically, in the Commission, we raised questions about what the 491 bill amends and points to. Ain Finland replied that, in particular, the amendments improve the wording of the technical parts, but the most important change concerns the provisions governing the national register of fishing vessels. The aim is to increase the efficiency and monitoring of the use of the available fishing capacity of the register of fishing vessels and the operation of the register. We also asked about inclusion and feedback from stakeholders. We were jointly assured that stakeholders had been met, and this can also be seen in the draft explanatory memorandum, which shows that already in 2016 parties have been met several times. There has also been the intention to develop this draft law, and the whole issue has been dealt with consistently. It is true that there was no agreement on all matters: no agreement or compromise was reached with the Estonian Their proposal was to ensure a flexible distribution of free fishing capacity between segments, but this was not supported, among other things, by Baltic coastal and trawlers. The Committee on the Environment agreed that it would be wise to meet again and organise further negotiations by the committee in the Riigikogu. One amendment pointed out that the electronic procedure for granting a professional fishing authorisation would become more up-to-date and that all technical work in this area would be transferred by the Ministry of Rural Affairs to the Food and Veterinary Office. A register of professional fisheries, including a sub-register of fishing vessels, shall also be established. From this, I understand, too, that it is no longer called a national register, but a sub-register that operates in a single system. Kaire Märtin of the Ministry of the Environment added that the amendment to the Fisheries Act seeks to improve the unambiguousness of the provisions and make substantial changes in the substance of the administration of fisheries. The draft provides the basis for the establishment of a database of scientific and recreational fisheries under the administration of the Ministry of the Environment, which is currently a sub-information system for the environmental register. This gives officials the opportunity to better manage the whole, to get information and to be analysed by scientists. Geir Veski pointed out that the professional fisheries register would add up the application for fishing authorisations. Thus, the obligation to carry a fishing authorisation will be removed. It can be checked on-the-spot by the Environmental Inspectorate from the register. Until now, the fishing authorisation has had to be physically carried by the fisherman. In the Commission, there was a discussion, led by Terje Tre, that what would happen if there was no Internet connection, but we were assured that, according to inspection practice, such situations could not actually occur. The Commission was also interested to see whether the Food and Veterinary Office had the resources to create this entire online environment, the IT environment. Ain Finland explained that the register of professional fisheries is being developed by the Ministry of Rural Affairs using the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (EMFF) control and monitoring funds. So far, almost EUR 1 million has been spent on development work and more than EUR 5 million has been allocated to 2023. In short, we focused on the issue of historical fishing rights. We were given the answer that this House does not have to deal with it this semester, although historical fishing rights, as such, certainly need to be clarified and discussed. The committee decided jointly to appoint me rapporteur for the draft, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 20 September and to conclude the first reading. It was also decided to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 10 a.m. on 22 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U256	The first question is asked by Krista Aru. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The Commission certainly formulated for its members what is the importance, impact and need of this bill? I am just asking for the Commission's formulation on these three things: importance, impact and need.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U258	Thank you for your question. To be honest, the Commission did not address this issue. But if you look at the explanatory memorandum and the legislation as a whole, it is certainly important that our e-governance building requires the integration of certain registers and the construction of relevant systems. There must be a legal basis for this. It cannot go by anyone's discretion, and the legislator must state his point of view here. Undoubtedly, the European Union has a very important role to play in the fisheries sector as a whole. This is one of the most detailed areas in Europe at all. My personal view is that there is some overregulation here. As a member of the Riigikogu, when I read this whole text, I would even say that every professional fisherman should have his own personal lawyer. And from this, too, the challenge is that if we can make databases manage as a whole, we should also reach the level of an individual or legal person, so that their lives in this area will be easier and bureaucratic obstacles and duplications will be reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U259	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U260	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Thank you for giving me different problems. The problem committee on state reform recently addressed the problem of e-state. The main problem is that there are many different systems in the agencies and ministries, and no one has information that is important to a person, which he should use. Did you have a similar debate in the Commission? For example, can an operator operating in the fisheries sector carry out all procedures in a single place? Can he be sure that he does not have to provide any evidence to the various agencies in parallel?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U261	Thank you. The specific draft law, the draft law amending the Fisheries Act, does not try to solve all the problems in this area from lifting fish onto the boat until it reaches the door of the processing building. There are a whole series of regulations that must be met: how a fisherman must fish on a boat to consider and how he must ensure that the difference later weighing is not very large, etc. There are a lot of details in this area, and we are certainly trying to make life easier for the digital database. This job has its charms, but also its pains. Unfortunately, there are a number of examples that the transitions are causing problems. Let us hope that these are the pains of childbirth that pass over, and great happiness comes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U262	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U263	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You mentioned in your speech that there was also a debate on historical fishing rights. You said that for the next six months, this issue does not need to be resolved in this House, but the problem needs to be resolved. I wonder what context this discussion was in, and what came up in the process? What are the problems that should be solved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U264	Thank you. We did not go into detail on this issue. The subject of historic fishing rights was raised by me at the committee meeting. This was, in principle, the opening session of the session, at the beginning of which we dealt with this draft, but I have been approached by a number of fishermen, above all, because there are rumors that this issue will be dealt with. They seem interested in whether the country really has a plan to change something important. That was what my question was about. This overview, which I had of the country's plans, did not include the subject of historical fishing rights. I just wanted to be clear to answer the questions that have been put to me about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U265	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U266	Thank you, Vice President. Good waitress! In presenting the draft, the Minister for Rural Affairs stated that it would be reasonable to bring the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Rural Affairs under one roof. Has the Committee on the Environment discussed this issue and, if so, what conclusions have you reached? In my opinion, it is the legislator here that could give a very clear impetus and say how the executive power can better implement all legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U267	Thank you. It is very clear in the explanatory memorandum that the Ministry of Rural Affairs will continue to implement a policy relating to fisheries. At the same time, it is pointed out that, when developing our e-state, the service of people involved in the sector must be improved through this interface. This benefit should not depend on where certain policies are being developed. Rather, it is necessary to ensure compatibility. Indeed, we all know that recreational fishing is currently managed by the Ministry of the Environment, professional fishing is the domain of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. People in the sector have seen that they are sometimes quite desperate and say that it could all be together somewhere. Currently, one manages the resource, the other protects the resource. However, I am not sure that bringing this area together physically in one place would produce the expected result. I think it is reasonable to move forward now in such a way that we first make the procedures that directly affect people easier and, in a sense, more transparent and sanctionable. Then it will be easier for everyone to navigate in this world, including politicians, to make further decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U268	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U269	Thank you. It is nice for you to declare that the aim of the draft is to simplify the legal provisions in this area. Unfortunately, I received a letter of concern from a person involved in fishing. He gave an example of the reorganisation of § 35 of the Act, i.e. the national register of fishing vessels. As a result, everything actually becomes much more complicated, confusing and a situation that can be understood in many ways. It gives rise to all kinds of disputes and disputes. I'm not so big a specialist myself that I can fully understand these changes, but it seems to me that there's actually been driven out here with Peltsebul's hell. In fact, the result is the opposite; it has become even more confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U270	Good Henn! As politicians, we must trust the officials, but on the other hand, we must listen to the proposals and concerns of the people in the sector, and that is what we are going to do. It's a first reading today. We will definitely get together and listen to their views together. The preliminary draft has been drawn up as such by ministerial officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U271	No more questions for you. Dear waitress, thank you. I will open negotiations with representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 491. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for submitting 491 amendments at 10 a.m. on 22 September. It's urgent, because September 22nd is the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U272	The ninth item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Minister of Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamme, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U273	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Let me briefly present the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market 465. There are two main reasons for amending the Law on the organisation of the fisheries market: better organisation of the granting of fish economic de minimis aid and of fish economic State aid, including the updating of the references of European Union legislation on the granting of fish economic State aid, and greater transparency of fish economic State aid. There are three main changes, the first of which would be to introduce State aid and de minimis aid. In 2015, the necessary developments were carried out in the register of State aid and de minimis aid managed by the Ministry of Finance for the purposes of centralisation, so that the de minimis aid for the fishing industry should also be accounted for in that register. In the same year, agricultural de minimis aid data also entered the same register. Previously, they were accounted for by the PRIA. The provisions on the use of available fishing capacity in the register of fishing vessels and the inclusion of vessels in the register shall be specified in order to prevent any departure from the principles of the current law by means of fictitious transactions. The right to replace a vessel removed from the register of fishing vessels shall be valid for a period not exceeding 36 months after its removal from the register. As the European Union's Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) Regulation provides for a maximum allowable capacity ceiling for Member States' marine fleets, which must not be exceeded, it is necessary to establish an unambiguous regime for the use of available fishing capacity in order to ensure that persons who have been deleted from the register of vessels cannot hold on to the fishing capacity released in the register for an indefinite period of time. According to the legislative amendment, professional fishing permits will also be granted electronically. When granting authorisations electronically, it is no longer necessary to carry a fishing authorisation printed on paper when fishing. The derogation shall only be granted in the event that the European Union, a foreign country which regulates fishing activities or the rules of a regional international fisheries management organisation so require. In this case, the person fishing must be accompanied by a copy of the fishing authorisation on the paper. The Act introduces a provision whereby only a permanent resident of the same small island is granted a licence to fish in the same small island to a self-employed person or a company established in the same small island and whose shareholders or members are permanent residents of the same small island. With regard to centralisation, it is appropriate to make improvements to the law necessary to better organise the granting of fish economic aid. The de minimis grantor shall be required to record the data in the register referred to above. It also reduces the amount of data to be provided and provides for the monitoring of fish economic de minimis aid ceilings through a register. The second major amendment is the updating of references to European Union legislation. In particular, Council Regulation No 659/1999, which governs the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, has expired. That Regulation has been replaced by Council Regulation No 2015/1589. Consequently, all references to the invalid Regulation must be deleted and replaced by the correct ones. The third main amendment lays down a requirement for transparency in the field of fisheries economic State aid. The law will be brought into line with the requirement of transparency of State aid under EU law, which entered into force on 1 January 2017. The requirement is to make public the identity of beneficiaries of State aid if the amount granted to one beneficiary of State aid exceeds the threshold of EUR 30000 for the fisheries and aquaculture sector laid down in European Union law. The limit for the agricultural sector shall be EUR 60000. The same obligation to disclose State aid applies to them six months earlier. All the above amounts shall be made public on a website set up and managed by the European Commission. The requirement for the transparency of fish economic State aid currently covers only the state aid granted in Estonia by means of a State aid authorisation and the State aid granted by way of derogation from the fish economic group. The transparency requirement does not apply to support under EMFF measures. The publication of the amounts of aid for EMFF measures shall be carried out in accordance with other rules under European Union law. Between 2013 and 2016, there have been two cases where an individual aid of more than EUR 30000 has been granted to the beneficiary in support of the exemptions granted by the fish economic group. Economic State aid exceeding EUR 30000 has not been applied for in the above years. Not all of these legislative changes will lead to additional costs for the state budget when implemented, nor will there be any new revenue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U274	The first question to the minister is put by Peeter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U275	Good manager! Good minister! I see that the scope of the law amending the Law on the Organisation of the Fisheries Market has also been set out here. And here it is said in black in white that in fact it concerns very few beneficiaries. My question is: who are the very few beneficiaries for whom such a bill has been drawn up and we must discuss it here? Can you name the very few that we are discussing this for?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U276	Thank you. I can't name them because they're few. There are no recipients of State aid exceeding EUR 30000. There have been only two cases in 2013-2016 and there are currently no such cases. It is simply that there are no excesses of EUR 30000, the limit from which it should be made public.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U277	Andres Metsoja.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U278	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Am I right to understand that we are trying very clearly to regulate the way in which legal persons are granted fishing rights by this law? In particular, this right is reserved for shareholders who should be registered in a particular small island. My question is whether this is not the way of dangerous overregulation. At one point, the shares may be transferred, they may be inherited, and they shall be accompanied by the right to fish. With this regulation, are we still ensuring that the right to fish is definitely reserved for the inhabitants of the small island, or are we going to open a new Pandora box, which will allow for a whole series of problems that we cannot foresee as legislator today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U279	Thank you. In my opinion, we are just ensuring that the fishing rights of the people of the smaller islands are maintained, that does not go outside this circle. The law also states very precisely who is a resident of a small island. I don't think it's going to expand this circle. If you're gonna sell your stock and you want to keep that fishing right, you're gonna have to sell it to a small islander.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U280	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U281	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Perhaps you would specify a small amount of state aid: what is it specifically? Today we are talking about small islands, but is this also a right for inland fishermen? Is this also a fisheries-leader issue, where the amounts are certainly higher than this EUR 30000? How broad a field can it cover in the future? Today we were talking about one or two cases where EUR 30000 or more has been involved, but EUR 30000 is not very much money.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U282	This circle isn't very big. I have already said that there are not many users of State aid who have applied for more than EUR 30000. I also said that this does not include those involved in fisheries. They will receive basic funding from the Fisheries Fund, which is not covered by the State aid rules. This regulation has nothing to do with the basic money that is being distributed. They're not related.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U283	Andres Metsoya, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U284	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good minister! However, I will come back to this issue once again. It is very right that it is being dealt with and seeking solutions, but I remember very clearly the logic of solving the so-called caste trap case. A quota was set, but it was still the case that the right to fish with a crotch was transferred to someone else and that the locals living in the small island could not fish in this way. My question is: has the legislator provided for a solution in this draft that, at one point, if the owner of a legal person leaves the world and someone inherits his shares or shares, what will happen to the right to catch? The circle of shareholders can always be larger. Doesn't it damage someone's interests?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U285	Thank you. That is a good question and it is worth clarifying what will happen if the heirs do not live on this island. But the goal is to protect the people of the smaller islands. Their fishing rights must be preserved. For my part, I can say that we are now looking for ways for the inhabitants of coastal regions and islands to catch more fish somehow. The subject is topical, but not today. The overall objective is certainly to keep fishing rights for the inhabitants of the smaller islands. At the same time, the concept of a local resident is a matter of its own. I know it comes from the law on permanent settlements in the smaller islands, and maybe it's connected to another law. Today we are dealing with a first reading, and I hope that you will certainly be discussing this issue in the Commission. But the aim is still to protect the locals, not to expand the circle, so someone from outside the small island will have to exercise this right. That is not the aim, we do not want to expand this circle in any way with this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U286	Aivar Chef.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U287	Thank you, good manager. Good Minister, is the Boundary one of the smaller islands? And does this bill have anything to do with people living on the shores of Peipsi?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U288	Thank you. The border island is not one of them and Salusaar is not one of them. They include four islands: one is Manija, one is Kihnu, one is Ruhnu, and one is Vormsi. I think I said it right. They belong, but the other islands don't. But, Mr Asker, I think we should discuss this matter together in the Commission. Perhaps the list could be extended to allow the residents of Piirissaare to fish where they live. I was given a concrete example that this year, in the year of the tastes of Peipsi County, it is very difficult to catch fish because fishing is concentrated in the hands of certain companies. From there also the historical fishing rights problem. We're trying to widen the circle of catchers there, our officials are working on it now. Historical fishing rights are indeed an interesting right, but this is not the subject of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U289	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U290	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! You mentioned that the State aid limit to be made public is EUR 30000 and that it has affected two companies. This also raises the question that this limit should perhaps be lower. With regard to disclosure, what is the overall objective?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U291	Thank you. I understand that this is a threshold laid down in European Union law. That's why it doesn't come from anything else. That is why this bill is in front of you today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U292	Since there are no more questions for the waitress, thank you to the Minister. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Rural Commission, will present the presentation of the commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U293	Good manager! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Rural Affairs at two meetings. For the first time, this was the case on 30 May 2017. Ain Finland, Head of the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, has also been invited to attend, giving an overview of the draft law amending the Fisheries Market Management Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. It noted that the draft clarifies the rules on the organisation and disclosure of fisheries-economic State aid and de minimis aid. The draft provides for the obligation to provide data on the granting of fish economic de minimis aid to the register of State aid and de minimis aid under competition law. This must be done by the donor. Under the European Union Regulation, State aid exceeding EUR 30000 per person for a period of three years is required to be made public on a website set up by the European Commission. References to EU legislation are also updated. At this committee meeting, the following decisions were taken: to propose that the draft be discussed at the plenary session on 13 September, to propose that the first reading be closed and that Mr Seeder, Chairman of the Rural Affairs Committee, be appointed as rapporteur, as well as to propose that the deadline for amendments be fixed ten working days in accordance with the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act. As the membership of the Commission changed, the Commission took new decisions on 15 June. As the Minister for Rural Affairs was unable to attend the plenary session on 13 September, it was necessary to amend the Commission decision of 30 May concerning the date of discussion in the 465th plenary session. At the same session, Aivar Kokk, the new chairman of the commission, was appointed as rapporteur for the 465th draft, and it was also decided that the deadline for the proposed amendments would be 4 October 2017 instead of 27 September 2017 as a result of the first reading of the draft. I have to admit right away that since I was not a Member of the Commission when the Ministry presented this draft, I may not be able to answer all the questions that were discussed in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U294	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U295	Good manager and waitress! I read here on paper that the European Commission adopted this regulation and that it was due to be in force as early as 1 January 2015. In two years at the latest, it had to be implemented. The last sentence is that the law must be adopted by 30 June 2017 at the latest. It's almost September 30th. Why, in these two years, have I not known how to say this politely, even this text has not been changed? It is now coming up with a draft which states that the law must be adopted by 30 June 2017 at the latest.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U296	Thank you, Peter, for a good question. On the one hand, I can tell you that the draft was handed over to the Commission before the expiry of that deadline, and then it was perhaps real. Why the law was not passed in spring, I cannot comment on that. Perhaps it was too late for the Commission, however, and since in the Commission in the spring, before the summer season, the chairman, or the waitress, he will be here today as soon as possible. If, now, within ten days, there are proposals for amendments, then during the first working week of October, we will review them and then try to adopt the law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U297	Thank you very much for the waitress. There are no more questions. I will open negotiations for the representatives of the political groups, if you wish. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 465. First reading is over. I will set the deadline for the submission of 465 amendments by 4 October and my papers even say the time: 17.15. That's right. So be it!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U298	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The Committee on Rural Affairs will present its report later, and the Minister for Rural Affairs Tarmo Tamm will start. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U299	Dear Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu, Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a draft 487, a draft law amending the Food Act and the Feed Act. In particular, the draft amends the Food Act in order to update the provisions relating to novel foods as regards the new European Union Regulation on novel foods applicable from 1 January of the following year. The novel food is a food that has not been used as food in the European Union before 1997, such as insects and exotic fruits, and the placing on the market of which requires authorisation. The amendment concerns a change in the authorisation procedure for novel foods. The current authorisation procedure at Member State level will be transformed into a central authorisation procedure across the European Union. Since the new novel food regulation adopted at the end of 2015 provides for the direct submission of applications for authorisation of novel food to the European Commission, not to the Member State, as from 1 January next year, the Member State is no longer obliged to assess the applications for authorisation itself. The safety of novel foods will be centrally assessed by the European Food Safety Authority. The Estonian Food and Veterinary Office therefore loses the need to draw up reports on the evaluation of applications for authorisation, thus also the need for the assistance of the Committee on Novel Food in its current form. This draft therefore abolishes the novel food committee set up to assist the Food and Veterinary Office and evaluate applications for authorisation of novel foods. Estonia's views in the area of novel foods will be based primarily on the European Food Safety Authority's assessments, as is the case in other food safety areas, such as food additives, contaminants. However, in matters related to food safety, which do not concern the authorisation procedure, Estonian researchers may still be consulted if necessary. The draft also amends the feed law and deletes the provision that the Food and Veterinary Office may refer to the Committee on Novel Food in the context of the processing of an application for authorisation of genetically modified feed. As the role of the Food and Veterinary Office is limited to confirming receipt of the application and forwarding it to the European Food Safety Authority, there is no longer a real need for the assistance of the Committee on Novel Food. The amendments are planned to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U300	The first question is asked by Aivar Kokk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U301	Good manager! Good minister! Can you tell me how long the Committee on Novel Food has been operating in Estonia and what its costs have been? As far as I am concerned, this committee has not discussed any novel foods and has not given any authorisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U302	Thank you for a good question. Perhaps my colleague Urmas can answer that question himself. I do not know who is part of this committee and how long it has worked. Yes, they have not had a job because we have not introduced anything innovative in this area in the area of food. The need for this committee will now disappear, but I do not think it has anything to do with financial spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U303	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U304	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Reading this bill, I was really puzzled, but maybe you can help. In this same section, § 13, 'New food and genetically modified food', there are many numbers and names of regulations. What do all the regulations that are listed here essentially mean? Is there any substance hidden behind them that you just referred here? Secondly, I will immediately ask you that there is a paragraph on page 1 of the explanatory memorandum that coincides with that on page 3. Do the members of the Riigikogu not understand an important sentence?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U305	Thank you. I think that the members of the Riigikogu will certainly understand very well and, as your question reveals, the draft will deepen very thoroughly in all nuances. Thank you for that. These paragraphs are certainly not completely identical, only certain thoughts recur. On your question of numbers and paragraphs, this number and paragraph must be taken apart and written down. If you ask me about a novel food or something, I can answer you about that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U306	Arno Bridge.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U307	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. Well, it looks like this novelty thing is a bit of a secondary story. We haven't been brought in any of these bugs yet, and we don't know if they're going to be brought here. In my opinion, the very important issue is the introduction of products made from modified food products. Is it now that the introduction of modified food is regulated only by European Union permits, i.e. our own ministry or government can no longer say anything if, for example, an entrepreneur wants to start bringing in modified food?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U308	Thank you. While genetically modified food and feed were originally regulated as novel food, since 2013 it has been regulated separately by a European Union Regulation. Genetically modified food is not a novel food; these two do not go under exactly one definition and are completely different things. There is no way this bill can bring in genetically modified food.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U309	Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U310	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A very brief question. Indeed, the issue of GMOs has been rejected for a long time and it has been said that they will not enter the European market. Do we already have GM maize in the European Union? And the second question. Tell me a novel food about insects or their components. What are these Europeans going to eat?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U311	Thank you for a good question. We are all Europeans, citizens of the European Union. What we're going to eat together in the future, I can't tell you yet. But your question was about corn. In fact, if you come into the European Union market with a culture at all, the authorisation will be given at the heart of the European Union. There's really a corn variety that's allowed here by now. I have not remembered this number, but let's say it could be grown in Estonia right now. However, it is not useful for Estonia to grow it because it does not produce the desired effect. So I can assure you that no genetically modified culture is being cultivated in Estonia today. You can be sure of that. There's only one variety of corn, but farmers certainly won't grow it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U312	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U313	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister! There was also a debate in the Commission, and the MPs were concerned that if decision-making goes central, in the middle, could our scientists maintain and increase their competence in this area. To what extent is it guaranteed that this is the case?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U314	Thank you. I also heard a debate about whether we are now going to give up our summer package with this draft if everything is going to be at the heart of the European Union. No, our scientists still have the right and the opportunity to have a say. If we do not agree with this in the European Commission, it will be reviewed. It's not like we're centrally told that we're not listening to your word. We're gonna have the right, that's all we need to worry about. If Estonia says that it still does not suit us, then I cannot imagine that it will be adopted. It is just that everything is being centralised, and maybe this is the right thing to do, because then we will not have to double it or hold a separate Commission. Otherwise, it is said that there is one committee, but we do not know who is in it and who will decide what. I think it's gonna get easier. We will not give up sovereignty with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U315	There are no further questions for the Minister. Thank you very much. Aivar Kokk, Chairman of the Committee on Rural Affairs, will present the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U316	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 11 September 2017. Katrin Lõhmus, Deputy Head of the Food Safety Office of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, and Külli Suurvarik, Chief Specialist, were invited to the Commission. Katrin Lõhmus gave an overview of draft law No 487 amending the Food Act and the Feed Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. He explained what the novel food was and gave an overview of the changes resulting from the new regulation. The novel food is a food which has not been used to a significant extent in the European Union before 1997. From 1 January 2018, a new European Union regulation will be introduced in the area of novel foods. The main change concerns the procedure for the application for authorisation of the introduction of novel foods. The current authorisation procedure at national level will be transformed into a European-wide central authorisation procedure. The obligation for a Member State to accept applications for authorisation of novel foods and to assess the effects on health and the environment is removed. The entry into force of the Act will no longer require a novel food committee at the Food and Veterinary Office, as the decision to place the food on the market will be taken in the future by the European Commission, asking the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) for a safety assessment. The processing period for novel foods permits is shortened, the Ministry of Rural Affairs still considers it essential to involve Estonian researchers in risk management decisions, which is why a framework agreement has been concluded with Estonian research institutions to obtain scientific opinions. The guests answered the questions asked by the members of the Commission. The Commission made the following important decisions: to appoint a speaker in front of you to appoint a draft 487 rapporteur, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda by 20 September, to propose that the first reading of the draft be stopped and that the deadline for amendments be fixed by 10 working days in accordance with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, i.e. the deadline of 4 October 2017 was 5.15 p.m. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U317	Helir-Valdor Seeder, your question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U318	Thank you. Good colleague! I will, however, question, even though there has already been a question about GMO cultivation, such as maize. I understand that this law regulates GMO food and novel foods, but does not regulate the cultivation of such crops at all. These are different things. Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U319	Yeah, you've got it right. It's a law on food and feed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-20_U320	Thanks to the waitress! No further questions. It is possible to open negotiations if you wish. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 487. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 487 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 4 October. Ladies and gentlemen, The longest working day for the sixth session so far is closed. I'll see you tomorrow at 10:00. Closure of the sitting at 5.52 p.m.
