ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Good morning.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U2	Due to the restoration of the powers of a member of the Riigikogu, Sven Sester is a member of the Riigikogu today. In order for him to be able to work, his oath must be heard. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Good Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu in the composition of Riigikogu XIII, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order. Thank you. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U4	In order for the ovation to continue, I would add that two of our colleagues today have the birthday of Yoko Alender and Artur Talvik. [[Let's hear it.]] They were born one day, but the years of birth are different, the great benefit of Yoko Alender, because Artur was a big boy when Yoko was born. It is now possible to pass on enquiries and drafts. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Affairs Committee, I am handing over the draft Act supplementing § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act. The addition of § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act is due to the fact that it is necessary to ensure the consistent availability of medicinal products to Estonian patients. This measure is essential to influence marketing authorisation holders of medicinal products to market their medicinal products in Estonia, without this provision, the state has no possibility of motivating marketing authorisation holders to market their medicinal products here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U6	On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. We process this in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! 88 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U7	Today's first item is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu entitled " Appointment of the members of the Joint Parliamentary Audit Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation' submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. The presentation will be made by Jaanus Kariliid, Chairman of the Legal Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs initiated the draft decision of the Riigikogu to appoint the members of the parliamentary monitoring working group that oversees the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation, including on 29 May. The Commission prepared the draft for the first reading at two meetings: 6 June and 12 June. On this draft decision, we are dealing with a draft to be dealt with at one reading. The Riigikogu Board set the deadline for submitting proposals on 5 June. Proposals could be submitted by the political groups, but no proposals were submitted. The Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that Mr Raivo Aeg and Mr Kalle Laane be appointed members of the Europol Working Group on Parliamentary Supervision. They were both present at yesterday's committee meeting. The appointment took into account that the members of the working group were experts in the field, while the balance between the opposition and the coalition was also taken into account. At its meeting on 6 June, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for the first reading by 13 June and proposed that the final vote on the draft be carried out. A majority of the votes in favour of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of the draft decision. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U9	The report was also adopted by consensus, no questions asked. I will open negotiations for the political groups, if that is what you want. I don't see that wish. No amendments have been tabled to the draft 473; we can go to the final vote. I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the appointment of the 'Members of the Joint Parliamentary Audit Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation', 473. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there are no respondents or abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft decision of the Riigikogu on the " Appointment of Members of the Joint Parliamentary Scrutiny Working Group controlling the activities of the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation" submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U10	Second item, Second reading of draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the Rescue Services Act 416. The rapporteur is Mr Raivo Aeg, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Second reading of draft law amending the Police and Border Guard Act and the Rescue Services Act. The draft was initiated by the Government of the Republic on 3 April, and we passed the first reading on 17 May. The deadline for submitting amendments was 31 May. By this time no amendments were received from the Riigikogu, but the Legal Affairs Committee was addressed by letter from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which tabled three amendments specifying the draft. These amendments were discussed by the Committee on Legal Affairs at its meeting on 6 June and three amendments were decided on the basis of this letter. Amendment 1 clarifies the wording of subsection 33 of § 1 of the draft by adding to it the date of entry into force of the amendment of 1 October 2017. In the past, the exact date of entry into force of the provision had not been specified in the text, and it had been stipulated that it would enter into force at the "time of entry into force of this Act'. According to the Ministry of Justice, it is important that the date of entry into force of the Act be clearly stated on this point. Amendment 2 deletes section 2 (5) from the text of the draft text. The problem is that at the time the draft was drawn up, before it was sent to the Riigikogu, the Ministry of Social Affairs did not coordinate this part of the draft. It was a 'technical error' or a technical error that this point was not removed from the draft before being presented to us, that it was mistakenly introduced and that it also came into the proceedings of the Committee on Legal Affairs. As there is no coordination between the Ministry of Social Affairs on this point, the Ministry of the Interior has now proposed to delete this point from the draft and to proceed with the draft procedure. The third amendment specifies the date of entry into force of the Act, which was set at 1 October 2017. The commission, the Committee on Legal Affairs, supported all these amendments by consensus and proposed that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 13 June, i.e. today, and the second reading of the draft law be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U12	Dear waitress, there are no questions for you, you may attend. I'll open negotiations if that's what I want. Three amendments to bill 416 have been tabled and will be examined. As you have heard, all three have been presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the decision of the commission is to take them fully into account. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 416. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U13	The third item is the first reading of draft Act 475 on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, give a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U14	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Council of Europe Convention, which is proposed by the government before us, aims to prevent violence against women and domestic violence. The Government of the Republic has taken its own steps to ensure that if the legislator agrees to ratify this convention, the state of Estonia would be prepared to realise its obligations under the Convention. The responsibilities are divided into several groups. Part of the responsibility is for our penal law to impose sanctions for acts resulting from violence against women and domestic violence. In order to deal with these issues, the Riigikogu is currently preparing a draft law amending the Penal Code. The second block concerns the establishment of an adequate mechanism for supporting victims and victims. In order to implement it, Parliament has also amended the Victim Assistance Act at the beginning of this year. As a so-called independent mechanism, a monitoring system is to be introduced after accession to the Convention. Under the auspices of the Council of Europe, monitoring will be undertaken as to whether the States Parties are in a position to fulfil and realise their obligations under the Convention. In Estonia, the Ministry of Justice is the coordinating body for the implementation of the Convention. I would like to stress that we are not ratifying this convention as a formal international commitment, but by ratifying it we are signalling within Estonia, but also to other countries and societies, that violence can never be a complex solution to human relations or a cultural norm. There is no justification for violence in any relationship. Another finding under this Convention is that violence against children or committed in the presence of children must be particularly deplorable, condemnable and punishable. And the third fact, the victim of domestic violence must never be left alone. The State must, with its assistance measures and the force at its disposal, tame the offender and alleviate the victim's suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U15	The first question is asked by Liina Kersna. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U16	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, as a member of the government, how do you appreciate whether the country is able to provide adequate assistance to the victims today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U17	Thank you. We have a victim support system. While women's shelters were previously financed from the so-called Norwegian project funds, I think it is reasonable that, at the end of this project, we have managed to ensure their sustainable funding from the basic public budget. Dealing with domestic violence, in particular violence in the presence of children, has also been made a priority of national charges. We certainly have room for improvement in this area too, as must be the case in dealing with and preventing such a very complex social phenomenon. If we ask whether these institutions, we say, the complex of activities as well as the institutions required for accession to this Convention, exist in the Republic of Estonia so that we can implement this Convention, then my answer is yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U18	Liina Kersna, second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U19	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I ask you, as the spokesperson in this area at the remote, how many women's shelters have you visited and asked them how they are doing. What is needed so that they can do their work better? I am just interested in how you believe that women's shelters can support children who have seen or experienced violence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U20	Thank you. Although we are responsible for so-called general ratification, it is all about women's asylums, ordering this service and other activities, to organise the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Justice organises a complex of legal measures so that certain acts can be punished, and it is understandable that these issues should be a priority for national prosecutions. There have also been public controversy about this subject in the media. There are concerns as to whether women's asylums are adequately funded and whether competitions have been conducted satisfactorily. I think that criticism and discussion have been necessary to draw attention to the problems, and I am sure that the Ministry of Social Affairs responsible for this area is aware of these issues and is trying to find a solution to these problems. I think that the amendments to the Victim Assistance Act were very important, so we expanded the circle of people who are entitled to help from the women's asylum. In order to receive assistance, a person does not need to be formally admitted to criminal proceedings, but it is enough to be a victim of the actual facts, the fact that he or she is a victim of violence. I think it was a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U21	Minister, there are no further questions for you. Thank you. Liisa Oviir, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, will make a presentation of the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U22	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women on Monday, 5 June. Uno Kaskpeit, Hanno Pevkur, Hardi Volmer, Külliki Kübarsepp, Liisa Oviir, Olga Ivanova, Raivo Aeg, Toomas Vitsut, Urve Tiidus and Valdo Randpere took part in the committee meeting. Mr Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, and Mr Tanel Kalmet, Head of the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, were also invited to the meeting. Mr Reinsalu, Minister of Justice, presented the draft to the Commission and pointed out that the main objective of the convention was to eliminate violence against women, including girls under 18 years of age, which is the root cause of continued inequalities between men and women. The Convention provides a comprehensive framework of legal and political measures aimed at preventing violence against women and assisting victims of violence. The Minister of Justice pointed out that the draft does not change the current law, that the necessary amendments have been made or are being made to amend the Victim Assistance Act and that the Penal Code and Aliens Act are also currently under way. The members of the Commission had a number of questions for the Minister of Justice. Mr Karilaid wanted to know that, when Article 23 of the Convention states that the Contracting Parties shall take the necessary measures to ensure that a sufficient number of suitable and easily accessible shelters are established for victims, whether accession to the Convention will also ensure better funding. The Minister of Justice explained that, while support centres were previously financed primarily on the basis of an agreement between the European Union and Norway, this arrangement has now been changed and support centres are financed by a series of fixed state budget expenditures. Mr Randpere asked for clarification as to whether the existing law would be amended in relation to the Convention. The Minister of Justice confirmed that the existing law will be amended, but not the Convention. The intention is to criminalise forced marriages, circumcision and harassment of women and to treat sexual harassment as a misdemeanor. The expiry date for crimes against individuals is also amended. The limitation period will begin to run, not from the event, but from the age of the victim. Liisa Oviir noted that, according to the explanatory memorandum, the number of cases of domestic violence has doubled over the last five years, and she wanted to know why. The Minister of Justice replied that there was no indication that society had become more violent, rather because of more active reporting and the fact that combating close relationship violence was one of the police's priorities. Tanel Kalmet added that five years ago it was not possible to report cases of close-relationship violence because there was no definition of an offence or offence, they were treated as domestic disputes. Urve Tiidus asked what was the main objective of the ratification of the Convention. The Minister of Justice replied that, above all, we wanted to give a signal of solidarity in the international community. The aim is also to create a universal network that will prevent those activities that we cannot tolerate. Jaanus Karilaid wondered whether Latvia and Lithuania had already acceded to the Convention. Mr Reinsalu replied that parliamentary procedures were also under way in these countries. It was also discussed that if there were 3,700 cases of domestic violence in the last year, how many times a man has been the victim. In the course of the joint debate and on the basis of the explanatory memorandum, men have been victims of around 16% of cases. When Valdo Randpere asked why, in this case, the men were excluded from this subject, the Minister of Justice pointed out that all penal sanctions in our country were ribe-neutral. As a result of this debate, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 13 June, to propose that the first reading be terminated and that Ms Oviir be appointed rapporteur. All these proposals were supported by 8 members of the Commission, with 2 abstentions and no one opposed. It was also proposed to set a deadline for the submission of amendments. 19 June 2004 with 5 members of the Commission in favour, no one opposed and 4 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U23	Thank you very much. No questions for you. If I wish, I will open negotiations for discussion of the general principles of the draft to the political groups. Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U24	Ladies and gentlemen, At first glance, this convention seems very constructive, preventing violence against women, etc. This is all very commendable. It seems to be a fully acceptable and on-going document that prioritises victims of violence, obliges the country to offer them as much support and services as possible, inculcates society's understanding that violence, in particular violence against women and within the family, lacks any justification, and stresses that violence in the presence of a child is the hardest form of violence. It is natural that any distortion of sexual organs, forced marriages, harassment and other acts of degrading human rights and dignity of women are prohibited and punishable. The Convention is directed primarily at the practice of women in the Islamic world, which is already banned and not accepted in our cultural space. But, unfortunately, there are still a number of extreme provisions in the convention that contain new sources of violence and repression, especially for those who attach importance to family, morality and normal relations between man and woman. For example, the Convention declares traditional gender roles, customs and practices to be violence against women. The sex is said to be just a socially designed role. The idea that men have a father's role and that women have a mother's role, a priori incite violence against women and must be eradicated with masculinity and, of course, femininity, essentially also with wedding customs, a seat for women and opening a gentlemen's door, etc. The Convention requires the introduction of radical and non-stereotypic gender roles into the curricula of kindergartens, basic schools, upper secondary schools, vocational schools and universities and the preparation of corresponding textbooks. We can no longer decide for ourselves what is and what is not in our educational programmes. You can only imagine what the materials of history or literature will be when the traditional and normal world is turned on its head. It also opens a completely new door to immigration, because the asylum provisions oblige women to adopt migrants because of alleged domestic violence, gender discrimination, a different understanding of gender roles, etc. These provisions create a situation where, in principle, there is no case where there would be no obligation to provide asylum to any woman and, of course, to her numerous family. The whole life of women coming from Africa, the Middle East and elsewhere is a major harassment. After all, there is no place for a woman in these regions and their religions, it is clear that women are oppressed there. As we are seeing today, we do not have any means of controlling the truthfulness of asylum seekers and alleged persecutions. In view of the huge demographic explosion in Africa, where the number of people will double in a few decades' time, what this convention obliges us to do will actually cost us enormously insanely. Because of this and many other reasons that cannot be read here, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party proposes to reject the draft at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U25	There are no further requests to speak. The proposal of the commission is to conclude the first reading of draft 475, but as we have just heard, the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party has proposed to reject the draft law at first reading. That is what we are about to vote on. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal by the Group of the Estonian Conservative People's Party to reject the draft Act 475 at first reading on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Prevention of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Please take a stand and vote. 5 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 67 against. The proposal was not supported. First reading of bill 475 is complete. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to the draft at 5 p.m. on 19 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U26	Fourth item, First reading of § 341 of the Act on Supplementation to Traffic, initiated by the Economic Commission. Aivar Koka, Chair of the Economic Commission, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U27	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission has initiated a draft Act supplementing § 341 of the Road Traffic Act. This draft regulation regulates the special transport arrangements and extends the scope of the regulated special carriage of goods by decree No 114 of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Infrastructure of 4 September 2015, as well as the special transport and licensing arrangements, as well as the reimbursement of expenses incurred by the road owner, the special authorisation fee and the special fees. The aim of the draft is to increase the efficiency of road transport. According to the draft, the current regulation on the specific transport of rough round wood will be extended to other modes of transport. According to the draft, the cargo to be shared may be transported as a special transport operation under the conditions laid down in the abovementioned Regulation if the special carriage is carried out by a combination of vehicles the transporter of which is part of the EURO V or of vehicles of the less polluting EURO emission class and the combination of vehicles, with the exception of the steered axle, is equipped with paired wheels and the actual mass of the combination of vehicles does not exceed 48 tonnes for a 6-axle combination and 52 tonnes for a 7- or more axle combination. Special transport takes place on a road network designated by the road owner. The road owner may specify additional conditions for special transport. This change will have a positive impact on the road transport sector as it will make transport more efficient and the industry more competitive. The amendment creates a level playing field for all operators active in the transport sector. The Economic Commission also took decisions: to appoint Aivar Kokk as the principal and rapporteur for the draft, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda. a by 13 June, ending the first reading and setting the deadline for amendments at 5 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U28	The first question is asked by Küllik's Hatter. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U29	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good chairman of the committee! When we were discussing the introduction of a road user fee, you brought us, as an example, this draft we are currently discussing. Please now provide an example to those members of the Riigikogu who are not members of the Economic Commission, of how this draft relates to the road user fee. Who will benefit from it, and who will not? What is this income, especially in view of the introduction of a road user charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U30	Thank you, Külliiki, for a good question. The point is that, compared to our neighbours, we have a much lower load capacity for cars. This change is made in order to allow one truck, or one driver, to carry a larger load. When adopting this draft, the Minister has promised to amend his regulations and to reduce special transport charges so that the additional cost of road charges would not be burdensome for road transport operators. The same amendment has just come from transport operators. Their wish was that if they were given the opportunity to carry bigger loads with more economical and environmentally friendly cars with this change, they would ultimately save money on it. What they lose when road tax arrives compensates for the same opportunity to carry heavy loads.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U31	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U32	Thank you, good vice chairman. Let me get this straight: if you look at these two drafts in combination, large-scale trucks will really win and users of small-scale trucks will be double punished?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U33	You're a little misunderstood. In the case of heavy goods vehicles, there is also a special transport charge. If you drive over 40 or 44 tonnes of cars, according to the current ministerial regulation, the special transport charge is 500 euros per year on national roads and 100 euros may be charged by local authorities. As far as I am aware, only the city of Pärnu is asking for it; other local governments do not ask for it. This surcharge does not apply in any way to smaller, smaller-sized cars. It is a one-off tax per year, and it creates the possibility that fewer cars will be available on Estonian roads. The number of cars in transport can be reduced by up to 20%. That, of course, is ideally the case. I think that in fact, the number of cars on the road is reduced by 8 to 10%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U34	Mart Helme.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U35	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Has this draft been viewed in a complex way, taking into account the increasing burden on roads and the resulting breakdown of roads, and taking into account the possibilities of the state budget to improve the situation of roads or to keep you in such a position that the situation does not get worse?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U36	Thank you, Mart, for a good question. Yeah, we've been watching it. If you read this bill, there are certain conditions written here. All axles shall be equipped with double wheels, provided that the axle load cannot exceed 10 tonnes. All roads built in the Republic of Estonia are subject to a rule that the axle load of cars can be up to 11.5 tonnes. Whether two cars, 44 tonnes, follow each other or one long 7-axis car are on the road, the load is equivalent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U37	Thank you too, dear waitress. No further questions. I will open negotiations for the political groups. There is no wish to negotiate. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of the draft 480. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 480 amendments at 5 p.m. on 15 June.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U38	Today's last item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Election of the European Parliament, the Law on the Election of Local Government and the Law on the Election of the Riigikogu, the Law on the Election of the Council of Local Government and the Law on the Election of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Riigikogu members Marianne Mikko, Jaanus Kariladi, Erki Savisaare, Hardi Volmer, Tanel Talve, Liisa Oviir, Heljo Pikhof, Dmitri Dmitriyev, Toomas Jürgenstein, Barbi Pilvre, Eiki Nestor and Toomas Vitsut. Ms Marianne Mikko, Member of the Riigikogu, please waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U39	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Nine men and five women of the Riigikogu, a total of 14 MPs wish to amend the electoral law by obliging parties to submit gender-balanced electoral lists. As we wish, men and women on the electoral lists should be held alternately. In rural terms, we are talking about so-called striped electoral lists. Our bill would make a striped tiger jump to the 21st century. As a symbol, if a hundred years ago the Estonian woman received the right to vote, we, the creators of this law, will help the Estonian woman to become elected. More than half of the Estonian population wants to see an increase in the proportion of women at political level. According to the latest gender equality monitoring, more than half of Estonians consider that there is a need to increase the proportion of women in politics. Speaking of striped lists, we need to talk about what, according to surveys, there is a consensus among the Estonian population: we need more women in politics, we want a more balanced representation and decisions that take into account the interests of all residents. Estonia has always tried to follow the example of countries whose success is due to decisions that have been made well. We should also wisely decide on this draft and choose the path towards a more successful, richer and diverse society. The draft will ensure a more balanced representation of women and men in the electoral lists, thereby increasing the proportion of women at decision-making level. Both the 2016/2019 Action Programme of the Government of the Republic and the 2016/2023 Action Plan provide for a gender balance. Looking at the practice of other countries, the proportion of women in national parliaments has increased significantly in all countries that have established a striped list. In Belgium, the proportion of women has increased from 16% to 38%. In Slovenia it has risen three times: from 12% to 37%. There is also a significant change in France: the Paris Act introduced in 2002 has increased the proportion of women in Parliament from 12% to 27%. We see similar changes in all the other countries that have introduced the quota. I would like to speak out loud before the representative of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs appeals to his main argument to talk about the Northerner. There is no such measure in the Scandinavian countries. I'm screaming down that there have been quotas in the past, but they've lost their meaning, they're working, and so they're no longer needed. Our gender gap in the North is two generations. In Denmark, Sweden and Finland, the parties have been trying to achieve a more equal share of men and women in politics since the 1970s and have taken various measures to this end. For example, 24 years ago, the Swedish Social Democratic Party introduced intra-party quotas with a zipper method equivalent to our striped lists. This had a significant impact on the Swedish Parliament, as the Social Democratic Party has been the largest party in Sweden ever. Iceland, considered the greatest example of gender equality in the world, has also established a quota. So the Nordics have made their choices a long time ago. Their decision to involve more women in politics has brought them good results, both in decision-making and at international level, where they are considered to be a measure of gender equality. The circle of decision-makers of women and men always makes better and more legitimate decisions for the people. Women make up 53% of Estonian society, as we know. It is therefore important that women are also more represented on the electoral lists, which would bring them to the political decision-making level of the Riigikogu, the local government and the European Parliament. The decisions taken are only legitimate if they take account of the needs of all members of a diverse society, including men, women, young people, old people, etc. The results of 2016 gender equality monitoring show that both women and men are of the opinion in Estonia that greater participation of women in politics is necessary to better protect different interests. Three quarters, i.e. 76%, of women and almost 70% of men, say 69%. Most often, it was considered necessary to increase the proportion of women among the members of the Riigikogu. This was considered necessary by 51% of women and more than a third, or 35% of men. The principle of striped lists supports an important idea of the staff is politically. This means, among other things, valuing the experience that has become somewhat different in the socialisation of women and involving them in policy-making. We have to deal with the creation of role models. The proportion of women in our political parties is increasing strongly. The membership lists of the parties reflect a fairly equal ratio between women and men. Despite this, the proportion of women in political parties' boards and top policies has been evenly low and has not increased significantly in the last decade. Ironically, the rejection of striped lists suggests that most parties often do not consider nearly half of their members to be adequate politicians. Striped lists can be considered as a mechanism for maintaining participatory democracy. Can we talk about participatory democracy in Estonia's example if we do not involve different social groups in policy making? 53% of society, or women, is represented by the Riigikogu, which is more than 70% composed of men. And finally. I believe that the members of the Riigikogu will take our draft seriously and support sending it to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U40	Dear waitress, you have questions from both male and female colleagues. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U41	Yeah, there's some way to fix the lists and change the queues. All right! I share your attitude. I'm serious! I love women. At the age of five, it began and has lasted for half a century. Sometimes I dream I'd like to be like Marcello in the Mastroianni movie "The City of Women." Jan Machulski also had an interesting film with two men and the rest of all women. It's every man's dream. But what are you doing? § 2 In your law in some smaller settlements there are several electoral lists and there are no women. It happens to be all men. So what do we do? Is there a sex change or some kind of sanctions? How can such a situation be resolved?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U42	Mr. Stalnukhin, we are facing a very interesting phenomenon right now. You know a complete men's village in Estonia, I don't know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U43	Liisa Oviir, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U44	It was only recently that there were elections in France, and the initiative of the new president received great attention. He assigned his election list to women and men in exactly half. Will the French electoral law oblige it to do so, and if it does, what will happen if the party still calls them in another way?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U45	Thank you. France has been subject to the so-called Parity Act for the last 15 years. According to this, political parties must submit electoral lists in which men and women are equal and alternate. If the party sins against it, it will be faced with financial sanctions, i.e. the support given by the state will be less. And these sanctions will be imposed.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U46	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U47	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, I'm sorry! Dear Marianne Mikko! You have given some examples of Europe where these striped lists and quotas have helped to increase the proportion of women in parliaments. Among them, there was no example of a situation where men and women are equal in Parliament. It's probably gonna take a while. But here's the question. These quotas and stripes question whether women themselves have the will to participate in politics. Do you share this view a little bit, though, I know you are a great supporter of this bill and this principle? And the second question. The difference between the number of candidates of both sexes in the list of political parties shall not exceed one. What happens if there aren't so many women who want to run?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U48	I'd like to pronounce your question this way, but what if there are no men? The Department of Equality Policy of the Ministry of Social Affairs also expressed an opinion on our bill. One of their thoughts was that what happens if there is not enough representatives of one sex or another to be presented alternately. It was suggested that in this case, men or women would come along as appropriate. I think that's a good idea. There may be men or women at the end of the list, but as many as there are men and women both, they are alternately.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U49	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U50	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! We have very different perceptions of why there are not enough women in politics. I have associated with a number of former successful female politicians and I think the problem is that a woman is practical and oriented towards very clear goals. The policy itself is a little less vague and there is a longer-term achievement of the objectives. But a woman, like I said, is practical. It will certainly also help that the reputation of Estonian politicians is not the best in society. Please tell us what people's proposals to improve the image of Estonian politics have to do with this draft. After all, there is a person among you who has been a member of the Riigikogu since Estonia regained independence.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U51	Thank you, Külliki Hatter, you asked a very relevant and correct question. But the answer is very simple. Politics becomes fairer and more humane when it is not inclined towards one sex or another. This can also be seen in smaller groups and organisations, if there are already one third of women, the language and the 'inflation' in this group or organisation will be more democratic, respectful and respectful of each other. Bringing women into politics, what really is putting on striped lists, involving them more and creating more opportunities for them, means that we ourselves in this Chamber will become more respectful, respect each other more, and our policies will not, as you rightly said, be so dirty, dirty or something that a woman does not want to come here for. Thus, by increasing the number of women in this Chamber, politics becomes more humane. I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U52	Toomas Jürgenstein.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U53	Good President! Good Marianne! We Social Democrats have tried to make a striped list in the last election. I admit that some stripes have sometimes come a little thicker than the other one, but generally we've tried to do that. How do you feel about how well we have dealt with it and whether it has justified itself?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U54	Thank you. Now, if you look at the proportion of men and women in the various political groups, there are 9 men and 6 women among the 15 members of our group, the percentage of women is 40. There is one group that can be said to have 0% of women. Overall, the situation has not changed significantly at the moment, compared to what it was in the early 90s. There are still either 1/5 women or as we are now, 1/4. In order to become an influence on thinking and social life, it is necessary to have at least 1/3 of women among the decision-makers. Then there will be changes. But we have either 20% or up to 25%.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U55	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U56	Good waitress! As a result of visual observation, I can see that you have not pursued this principle among the initiators. People say that politics must be credible and convincing, even at the beginning, among the initiators of the draft. Can you tell me why you haven't followed the same principle in initiating the bill? Can it be concluded that you have the same lightness of view of the outcome of this whole bill? I call on you to support striped marriages.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U57	That was a nice question you made me embarrassed. I think that if there is such a great will among men to place such a bill on his shoulders, that is a good sign. Believe me, here's the will! If you think that any change will be initiated in such a way that everything is arithmetically dimmed, you have not entered the right hall. Things are going a little different in the Riigikogu. You're a rookie here, so maybe we'll talk about it in a year or a half.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U58	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U59	Honourable waitress! As Thomas said earlier here, sometimes stripes can be wider. I'll give you an example of Tartu. We have had striped lists in Tartu, and all the men who are on the board or in the hall and who decide on the place of people on the list have supported it. But now from the Nordic countries. We know very well that these lists have worked well there. Now the men there are worried that there are sometimes even more women. They've been complaining to me. Do you think this could be a problem for us in the Riigikogu today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U60	I think it might be a problem in a hundred years. We are now in 2017 and that is why I do not see the problem. The truth is that quotas still refer to the principle of justice. The question therefore fits more into 22th century Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U61	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U62	Thank you, Marianne, for bringing excitement to this hall! This issue is certainly justified and necessary. The European Commission has taken stock of the situation of gender equality in the countries of the European Union and has shown that the highest proportion of women in the Swedish Parliament is found. There's 44% of the ambassadors there. It's the fruit of a certain kind of work. I'm asking you how it's come to this. What has been done in society, and what have been the social agreements that have been achieved? We could learn a lot from this too.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U63	Thank you. As I noted in my report, it all started in the '70s, i.e. two generations ago. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, a paper was distributed to the members of the Commission and also to me on how many countries have this quota and how many do not have it. There is no such thing in Scandinavian countries. But I'm stressing that they have 40 years of head start. We have to decide whether we want things to happen by evolution, evenly. The Ülle-Marike Papp, one of the developers of our Gender Equality Act, has reported that it will take some 60 to 70 years. We are optimists for 60 years, i.e. three more generations. If we want to be like the Nordic countries, that is what we always want, then we should help ourselves more quickly. Striped lists are one way to help us catch up with them faster. Belgium made the same decision in the mid-90s. The party leaders, both on the right and on the left, felt that now is the right time: it is not appropriate for a country in whose territory there is the capital of the European Union and NATO, a diplomatic capital, to have only 16% of women in Parliament. They made a deal, and they made it. Belgian law is very specific and radical. The electoral list is exactly as long as it takes for men and women to continue alternately. That was agreed 20 years ago. If the list does not meet this requirement, it will not be accepted in the Central Election Department and the party will not be able to stand as a candidate. The parties themselves forced themselves to work with men and women and to find candidates, and also to encourage them, because, as has already been said, women are really more self-critical and modest. Women need to be encouraged to the bottom. Of course, women who are highly educated in the Republic of Estonia than men do not want to work at the corners of the street to take their place in their jackets. It's psychologically complicated. Women realize that they want to get here, but when they see their place on the list, every politician knows when he's looking at where he's on the list, whether he's got a chance to get in or not. Striped lists do not mean that weak women or so-called quota women can enter. This is an encouraging and enabling measure for those who themselves have the content of a 'politician'.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U64	Raivo Põldaru.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, You have here used the words 'kaldu', 'humane', etc. for the Riigikogu hall. So, what do you blame the men for? Have we not passed the laws on women's rights here, or have the laws been inclined to the detriment of women? Would it have been different if there had been more women in the Riigikogu? The second question is about its stripedness. Today, gender roles have changed. Some just feel like a woman, and maybe she'll get to that place, even though she's born a different person. And then he thinks I want to feel like a woman and go there and take a seat for a nice woman. How do you regulate these things?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U66	There were two questions. On the second question, I say very frankly: it was so confusing that I did not understand it. The first question I answer is that I have nothing to blame for men. But I'm trying to say that our women deserve a place in this room. If you now logically think that 53% of Estonians are women and 47% are men, and you look around this hall and I don't want to ask you directly, because this is not polite, how well do you still feel about women, children, the elderly and the weaker to stand up for them like a lioness? Just a ball tossed in the air. I have no accusations, but I think that women are worth contributing more to Estonian society than they do now. But we're not giving them a chance. There's no point in playing cat and mouse, saying that it's only possible to get here if you're better than you are. That's not possible if you're in the middle or at the bottom of the list. That's not possible! Let us be frank and honest!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U67	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U68	Good waitress! It doesn't suit me that the talk of human-centredity always ends with the reading of prohibitions, taxes and morals. All the time, you know better where to take people. But I'm fine with having women on the ballot list. In Järva- and Viljandi, we went through a lot of trouble last time to get women to run, and we didn't find any women. No women got an election list! Despite that, we won the election. Tell me what makes soccer smarter than others and better than others. Why do they want to tell the electorate and my political party, the party that is in competition, how is it better and what is right? Where does that wisdom come from? Where's the human-centredness here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U69	Dear Jürgen Ligi! I am pleased to inform you who are the greatest champions of women across Europe. They're liberals. In both the Netherlands and Sweden, they have also stood for quotas. As for your work in Viljandi, I don't appreciate it. I don't know what you said to your women there, and for what reason they refused. This is an internal matter for your party. But the Belgians, the leaders of the parties, including the liberals, were able to agree among themselves in the mid-90s that this was not appropriate for the 21st century and that something had to be done. It was done with the Liberals. So I say once again that it is the Liberals and especially the Social Liberals across Europe that are famous for standing up for women whose rights they regard as human rights.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U70	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U71	Thank you, good manager. Thank you, Marianne, for creating and initiating this bill. I admit that I have been against quotas, but I do consider striped lists to be a reasonable tool. Above all because it helps to bring people with different experiences into politics. Would you be more specific about what kind of experience would be added to politics in Estonia if we had more women in politics?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U72	That's an extremely good question! Empathy, listening and listening to each other. I have already mentioned participatory democracy. When women come with experience, it is possible for participatory democracy to take a broad root here. Külliki's Hatter is also right that women are characterized by practical sense. It's always missing here. Sometimes it is men's political games that make people startle and perhaps even alienate, as well as the exercises that we do here together at night sessions. If more women come here, believe me, these night sessions will end. The sitting will run until 24:00 on Wednesday, and point, no further. Right now, we're gonna do this happily until Thursday morning, and we're gonna act like it's a democracy. At 4:00 a.m., no brilliant decision will be made.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U73	Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U74	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear colleague Marianne! I asked the same question in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But I'll give you a little introduction. I think women are very sympathetic, too. Even more, I almost love all women. I have had experience in my life on a winter trip that showed how important both men and women are. I can't imagine that, in the election lists, what I've done before, and I'm doing this summer, I wouldn't have both, and I wouldn't count on that proportion. But my question concerns the bill itself. Does this bill really help to solve this important problem? Have you calculated that our elections are actually different? In the elections to the European Parliament and local government councils and in the circuit lists of the Riigikogu elections, candidates are relocated on the basis of real election results, so in fact, this stripedness remains only in the case of all-Estonian lists of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U75	Thank you, Helmut Hallemaa! What can I say? By adopting this law, when we arrive at it one day, we will not influence the local elections in 2017 as we know, the amendments to the electoral law must have entered into force a year before the elections, but perhaps the next elections. As far as the 2019 Riigikogu elections are concerned, I repeat: we give the electorate the opportunity to choose equally between men and women, both the man and the woman standing by the ballot box. But the elected ones will still be those to whom the voter votes. Our aim should be to create the most democratic and fair possible electoral situation in which all men and women can choose a candidate that is acceptable to them. It's the picker who's gonna decide who's finally gonna sit here. It's not up to us, it's up to the voter.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U76	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U77	Good manager! Good waitress! Yeah, the striped list is great. You are from the gender here now, but there are many Orthodox, Christian, etc., Estonians and Russians in Estonian society. Perhaps there should be stripes that so many Christians, so many Orthodox, so many Muslims, maybe also rural believers, for example, every tenth stripe, or Estonians and Russians and representatives of other nations? We really have little women here, but also people of Russian nationality. There are, but a little bit too. What do you think about that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U78	Thank you, Peter Ernits! This question, too, was already put to me in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, so that is not news to me. In answer, although women and men are Estonians and Russians, Christians and non-Christians, they are still women and men. Therefore, the most universal distribution is by sex. That's the simple answer. Of course, a thought that has not been included in this bill may be ridiculous.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U79	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U80	Thank you, Mr President of the sitting of the Riigikogu. Good waitress! It's crazy about this swamp. Raivo Põldaru asked very specifically what happens when a person comes who senses that he is of a different sex. As your party chairman, Mr Ossinovski, said a few months ago, gender is still a cognitive issue, a social construction: I am who I want to be. So this is a very dangerous issue. I don't know, you're gonna get elected as a woman, but in two months, you're gonna want to be a man. I wonder why only three women were on the list of the Social Democratic Party Järva- and Viljandi County in previous Riigikogu elections. Why was there no balance at 5: 5? The same thing happened to your lists in Haaberst, North Tallinn and Kristiine. Why didn't you have striped lists in these areas, and you didn't set an example? I wonder why, for example, Denmark, Finland, Austria, Hungary, let alone Latvia and Lithuania, even Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Romania, Sweden and the United Kingdom have not implemented quotas. There are no coercive quotas anywhere. Why do you want to go against the current?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U81	Thank you, Jaak Madison! The answer to the first question is simple: none of us are perfect. To the second question, you would have received an answer if, as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, you had participated in a committee meeting where we discussed this issue with regard to a paper which had a table on which countries have quotas and which countries do not. I have said many times today why there are no quotas in Scandinavian countries. There have been quotas, but there are no more quotas, because there is no need for them. Why isn't there in the UK? It's been there, too, and there's no need anymore. In Germany, exactly the same. However, we can see in which Member States of the European Union nothing has been done to increase the participation of women. These results may be more acceptable to you, although your group will not reach the goal of having 10% of women. The best result, so to speak, is in Hungary, where women in Parliament are indeed still 10%. There are other countries as well; in Romania this percentage is close. In Eastern Europe, it is common enough that there are few or less than 20% of women in parliaments, or one fifth.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U82	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U83	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Could one of the objectives of this draft be to avoid the creation of lists of women's lawyers or, if such lists are created, should half of them be men?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U84	That's a very interesting question. We have not created women's parties. There have been few initiatives in the world, but their result when we talk about getting into Parliament, including Sweden, has not been significant. In general, the same bill protects men in the electoral lists. We are not talking here for the benefit of women or men, but for the principle of parity or equality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U85	Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! The representation of women in the Free Party Group is good. I think they stand out in this room with their active actions against both women and men. But last week, a lovely lady in Hiiumaa pointed out that she had a hard time voting for the Free Party in previous elections, because in this district we had no women on the list. We did, but we didn't. If you look at the proposals you've made, believe me, with this striped list requirement, the Free Party wouldn't have met 125 candidates. You're creating an additional obstacle. Is one of the objectives of this bill likely you have not quite thought of it that way? It could be the favour of the so-called old, prodigious parties who are perhaps more capable of putting together this striped list?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U87	Thank you very much. I understand your thoughts and concerns and commend the gender composition of the Free Party. I applaud, and I'm thrilled. However, if we compare, you have 37% of women, we Social Democrats have 40%. I would argue that if our legislative amendment is successful, those women who feel that your ideology deserves to be respected will give you their consent in the next elections. I'm sure they'd rather take part and run. Once again: if, in the mid-1990s, it was possible to reach an agreement on a political scale as diverse as that in Belgium, it is also possible in Estonia. I have emphasised and very many studies have pointed out that Estonian women are educated and intelligent. If they see that they are able to make their contribution and can also be elected, they'd rather come to you on the list. It just seems meaningless to them in this situation because they can't get here. You can be very good, but you can't get in here. It is about party leaders and all of us who are looking for good people on our lists, and also about party lists. In all our parties, men and women are more or less equal. I hope that's true in the Free Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U88	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U89	Good waitress! I repeat my starting position once again: since 1995 I have declared that I am active and aware of the feminist, and have acted as such, and I will continue to hold this position. As a result, this quota system seems to me to be very talented. If the only thing we can do for women is establish a quota, it is a substitute rather than really help women. I claim to be a man or a woman, if you dare not stand up for yourself in order to get a list, then you have nothing to do in the Riigikogu either. I have this feeling that Belgium is, in every sense, an extremely failed example of a parliamentary state, and that is why I do not understand the praise of Belgium either. I'd better warn you, guys, look what's in Belgium! Is that what you want? But the question is, are you able to come up with something more witty than quotas to protect women?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U90	Thank you. I think that the various international organisations are witty and authoritative enough, not authoritarian, but authoritative, to emphasise that if countries want to become more democratic, they will give women a chance at decision-making level. You can see that this striped list, the men-women alternately, is fair and democratic. If you want to reduce it, you can call it a quota list. I'm asking you, if there are men and women in society in half, is that the quota? I would be a little more modest with words, would not ridicule or throw overboard thoughts that are not made up here in Estonia, but spread around the world and are distributed because they are good practices.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U91	Hatter, the second question, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U92	Thank you, good vice chairman. Mrs. Mikko, please don't manipulate me! Firstly, among the 15 members of the Social Democrats, there are only three women who have been directly elected, three of the eight members of the Free Party. So these percentages are completely different. Second. Don't put words in my mouth! I have not said that this is a practical measure. On the contrary, it is a measure that is inferior to women. In this case, the law is intended to say: woman, if you want to go into politics, we as a party must promote you, and that is how you serve the parties. You've been saying here that this is a method of the last century. Why do you bring the method of the past century today?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U93	Well, Hatter, when I paraphrased your last question, I said that you spoke of the woman's practical mind. I mentioned a practical mind. You can review it after the verbatim.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U94	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U95	Good manager! Good waitress! Quota women, quota refugees, quota fishing, emission allowances, such definitions. There are reserved seats in Parliament, in Africa, Asia. And there are party quotas, especially in European countries where the percentage of women in Parliament is highest: Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany. These are party quotas, not national quotas. Would it not be right, however, to continue now with parties that wish to establish party quotas, just as the Soviets and some others have established, but let the Reform Party, which has not established, continue to do so. Why oblige nationally? There's a lot of women in the middle party.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U96	Peter Ernits, I understand your point perfectly. The question is simply whether we want to rely on evolution to reach the fact that men and women are here in half and equally represent society. In view of the relationship between men and women in this hall, it will last for about 60 years. Whether we are willing to sign it today, in 2017, or whether we want to speed this process up. As I have already pointed out here, a number of countries that have established quotas and have cut them off in a few decades' time, because it will no longer be necessary. I think that the Estonian people, the Estonian state, are worth it so that there is equal representation here and everyone would feel that their face is here. That's why I'm standing here and why we and the other 13 people have initiated such a bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U97	Raivo Põldaru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I am still disturbed by the talk of bias that the Riigikogu is tilted. Perhaps an example of decisions taken by the Riigikogu, which have been biased towards men, is that if there had been women here, they would have made completely different decisions. Can you bring out any such laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U99	Thank you. Since this is a demagogic issue, I cannot answer that question. I didn't tell you about the tilt. I have been talking about whether representation is sufficient, given that we have 53% women and 47% men in society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U100	Barbi Pilvre, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U101	It was said here that some countries also have parliamentary seats under quota. Maybe you should go over the fact that this isn't about guaranteeing any seats in parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U102	Thank you, Barbi Pilvre! Yes, of course, these designated places, to which Peter Ernits referred, are not the norm in Europe. What the European Union and the Council of Europe mainly wants is for the electorate to be given the opportunity to choose equally between men and women, not for anyone to be appointed. The European Union and the Council of Europe are talking about democracy and freedom of choice for the electorate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U103	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U104	Thank you, Chairman. Good waitress! There is certainly a substantive problem and the presence of women in politics must be fully welcomed and supported. I certainly welcome and support it. But my question, however, is about this representation. I dare say that this comparison of numbers, particularly in terms of electoral systems and electoral lists, which I mentioned in my first question, is quite pointless. These percentages do not show real results or change in the lists. What is the basis for this one-place difference, and why alternately? Perhaps the first time in Estonia could have made these things longer, just as real life is. After all, these lists are not the same across Estonia that men and women are exactly equal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U105	Good question! The answer is simple. If this draft goes to second and third readings, I very much hope that we will do so, then in the course of this, all of our parliamentarians will have the opportunity to contribute and propose amendments to the bill. So I welcome it. Let's sharpen the pen and make good suggestions!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U106	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U107	If I may, let's start by reminding everyone in the hall and the waitress of a very simple truth: this proposal is unconstitutional and it is a mole. I hope at least that's clear. Who else would need to set quotas? By the way, I'm serious about the quota. If three men are allowed to run for three women, that's the quota. We still have minorities, we have linguistic, ethnic, cultural, religious and other minorities. If the letters must be these lists and who are these other minorities, who do you think should be granted these benefits? By the way, I would point out, just in case, that women are not a minority in society. And those unfortunate men who have been elected here, those colleagues who are currently under attack here, they are chosen by women because there are more female voters.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U108	I have already answered that question, your question is analogous to Peter Ernits' question. So in the verbatim, you can read what I answered Peter Ernits, because the answer is the same.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U109	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Clearly, the large parties do not have any problems with drawing up striped lists, but if we are looking at local elections, which are dominated by electoral alliances, there may indeed be a situation that there are no women. You can't force anyone to come into politics or run. Is it not possible to simply draw up lists for the purpose of listing people who do not really want to take part in the work of the local government council?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U111	Firstly, whatever happens here today as a result of the vote, we will not affect the electoral lists for the 2017 local elections, because by then this law has simply been in place for too little time. So to speak, the time for reflection is four years. I would like to remind you that this is the responsibility of the political parties and electoral federations, those who are interested in carrying out their will, their ability to speak to women in such a way that women understand that they are necessary for society. And then, when women feel that they are necessary for society, that they can make their decisions for the benefit of society, they put their shoulders on their shoulders. I am quite frankly saying that it is possible to get them on the electoral lists when talking to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U112	Henn Põllamaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U113	Thank you. I found a description of you meeting people in the press. It was a public meeting. And that's where you assured me that we need to understand the gender quota correctly. This means that, if there are equal candidates, women's candidates should be preferred to meet the quota. You said that self-regulation must be established, also forcefully. If you still put on killer heels and step on a place that hurts men, you'll be taken seriously. In fact, you did not talk about a certain place or step on a toe, but, for the sake of courtesy, I am not going to mention any more delicate places here. Is that your understanding of equal opportunities, equal treatment of men and women and democracy more widely?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U114	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U115	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U116	Thank you. Honourable waitress! You said that if there were more women, the night sessions would disappear because it was a waste of time and a health violation. Women are being deterred from politics by work arrangements, for example, by mothers and caring women. If you still have a little kid at home who needs to help you study school, or you have to pick up a kid from kindergarten, take care of a sick mother, that's what drives women away. I ask: what would change in the political order if there were more women?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U117	The same question was raised by Barbi Pilvre, and I can repeat it. We're gonna listen to each other more. We pay more attention and bring in empathy, in the broadest sense. This level of aggression that currently prevails, often in our halls, deters women away, also deters young people who think differently. In a society where good policies are made, all inclusive policies must include the widest possible cross-section of society. And the proportion of men and women represents this cross-section. It is not possible for men who are more than 70% in this Chamber to be able to sense and speak with all things that concern us women, so that it becomes good legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U118	Andres Ammas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U119	Honourable President! Respectable waitress! At a folk meeting in the late 1980s in a singing field, the people chanted to Indrek Toome, who had become patriotic overnight: 'Say the same thing in Moscow! ' I would like to tell you, dear waitress, that in your group, you say what you say in the remote. A couple of minutes ago, you said that if there were more women here, we wouldn't be working at night, at 00:00 would be the point. Some time ago, when I expressed my opinion on this, the respected speaker replied to me and to my fellow thinkers that there was always work here at night, working now and probably in the future. And that's a natural course of action at all. Whoever complains about it is probably just lazy. Would you please tell Eiki Nestor that night work is harmful? Have you already spoken, and if you haven't, could you please do it in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U120	I'll take your message. Without a doubt, I will find a time to meet Mr. Speaker, and we will discuss this seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U121	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U122	Thank you. Good waitress, you spoke of aggression and its decline in women's involvement. I must say that my impression has always been the opposite. Even today in this hall, the most aggressive question you received was from a woman, also a woman. I don't mind being aggressive. But I did not get the answer to my first question: what should the party do to force women to apply? I do not think there is an answer, and there is also a serious problem with your draft, not the only one, but one of the most serious problems. My question is a little distracted. Tell me if you agree that there is age discrimination before discrimination against women in Estonian society. Fortunately, your party has already said so. What conclusions could be drawn from this in the context of the electoral law?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U123	I dare say that what Marju Lauristin said is God's truth. When we look at an Estonian woman, her most difficult time is when she has retired. These are pretty tough years, because the pay gap leads to and has already led to the pension gap. So, indeed, it is not easy for women to live in this society. What characterizes an Estonian woman is that it never complains. If the constructive mentality of women, patience and willingness of women to do something for society, not necessarily for women, could bring more into this hall, it would be only to be welcomed. Our bill gives us an opportunity, but the voter decides.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U124	Madis Milling, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U125	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable waitress! As an older colleague, could you describe in a few words how the work of the Riigikogu was much more human, cultural, softer, full of values than the honourable Mrs Ene Ergma led by the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U126	Good question! But the debates are here. [[Pointing towards the hall.]] Leading is taking someone in and out. So it doesn't make much difference to coaching in this sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U127	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U128	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! I'm listening to these stereotypes here about good women and bad men, but it doesn't bother me as much as the way you operate with Sweden. You're talking about Sweden, how the Social Democrats have been a great leader in the issue of equality between women and men. That's not entirely true. In Sweden, Communists have paid the most attention to women in politics. They don't call themselves Communists these days, because when the Soviet Union collapsed, they threw the Communist name out of the party name, now they're just left. However, as regards Sweden, the most famous scandals have had to do with women. The same Communist leader turned out to be a drunkard and a lake mutt, the other, soccer leader bought pantyhose and Tobleronet. If anyone thinks the pantyhose were bought by a male politician, he's wrong, it's a woman, Mona Sahlin. I want to ask you what gives you the confidence that if there were more women here, it would be milder and better. Why are Estonian women somehow less insane than Estonian men?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U129	Thank you. As the question casts a shadow on women, especially on Swedish women, I am not answering it. There have been many other cases, both in Sweden and elsewhere, where the main character has been a male person.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U130	Tarmo Kruusimäe, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U131	Thank you, good waitress! Let's take a look at this picture in a broader sense, and only 101 members of the Riigikogu do not shape politics; we are also supported by staff. Does this bill have any effect on the staff of Riigikogu employees, the local government collective? I have worked at the Estonian Youth Work Centre for seven years and have been in the same office as seven women, the only male, and I think that there could have been staff elected on the basis of so-called parity. I repeat the question. Does this decision, if it enters into force, have any effect on the staff policy of Riigikogu employees?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U132	I don't think it's too big. If only for the benefit of men.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U133	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U134	Thank you. I will ask two brief questions in one question. Before this draft, we discussed the draft law amending § 341 of the Traffic Act, which is quite important and has a clear impact on the economy, and there were two questions. You have already received more than 40. Does this basically mean that this hall is more interested in solving this problem than in the previous draft? About 20 times that. Isn't that a good enough assessment? And another thing. Is there no conflict of interest in this bill? If I represent an organization, an NGO, and if there are any issues that give him any advantage, I have to report it, leave the hall, etc.? You're practically defending your interests right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U135	You know, Mr. Stalnukhin, if we implement this amendment to the law and there will be men and women on the electoral lists in turn, I can say this with a kind and calm heart, I may not stand for the next election. If that's the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U136	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U137	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I cannot conclude from your answer style that women would respond more pleasantly, meaningfully, or better, even though that is what you have always assured us. But you have never brought any justification or scientific evidence. Are there any studies other than your own emotional assessments that this is the case? You have some facts to add that would really show how women would be better in politics, more friendly, more pleasant, more human, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, The second question repeats what Igor Gräzin asked for and what you missed, actually ugly slipped over it. Igor asked you if you knew your bill was against the Constitution. Please answer this!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U138	Positive discrimination is one measure recognised by democracies. That's point 1. Point 2... What's your first question again? [[Randpere's commenting on the floor.]] Dear Mr. Randpere! [[Slaps his hands.]] If you had been in the hall from the beginning, you would have heard that I was referring to some research. So you can look up the verbatim because other colleagues have already heard it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U139	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U140	Thank you. I have such a question for the honourable waitress. In my opinion, the task of the Riigikogu is not to shape practices, morality, ethics, any relations between the sexes or relationships in society, but to legislate. Lawmaking! So far, have we had any laws that prevent women from coming to the election list?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U141	Mr Vasilyev, the point of our being here, indeed, is to create laws and represent the people. And this representation of the people is just as important. Indeed, a study could be commissioned to look at our 25 years of legislation from a feminist or, say, a gender perspective on how the rights of all men and women are reflected in our legislation. This is a very good subject of research, I think we could propose it to some universities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U142	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U143	Thank you. Dear Marianne, thank you for this subject. You can see yourself that this debate in this Chamber has, at times, become a little ugly. My condolences to all men, especially Igor Gräzini, who admitted that men are under attack today. This shows that there are truly good and strong women in this Chamber. You will see that the hall is not yet ripe to support this bill. What can we do in Estonia and what direction can we take in the near future in order to understand more that such laws are also necessary in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U144	Nothing has been decided until the vote. So I don't think I'm gonna throw a gun in the bush and leave the field. But I do agree that this is a fight. I understand men. If you're used to seeing men in politics in general, it's hard to see a woman instead of you. It's a psychological problem. I understand that, but there's nothing I can do to help men.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U145	More Riigikogu... March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U146	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good waitress! Perhaps this distasteful attitude towards this bill is due to the fact that all world wars and the world's redistributions have taken place either for money or for women. If there are a lot of nice women in the Riigikogu Hall, as you are, and well-influential women, as you are, you can make men dance to your own tune. Is that a presumption or not? [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U147	I thank the men who have said how much they love women. Love is very important. I rather think that in this Chamber we are colleagues, respect each other. Love can be dealt with elsewhere. It is not very pleasant to feel like a woman here, I am thinking of feminineness, which you may have wanted to emphasise. I am trying to stress that we are colleagues. Let us honor one another! Both have a different perspective and it complements Estonian society. When it comes to the North, we have taken over and taken over a lot with admiration, but there is one thing we do not want to take over, and that is gender equality. In my opinion, it was Mart Nutt, who reminded in a discussion group that, if there are no coalition ambassadors in the Swedish Parliament at the time of an important vote, the opposition will mean that there is a balance in the vote so that the will of the voters is what governs in this Chamber. When do we get to that idea? Not so let's just sit there, okay? Now they're one vote short and we're gonna give them red. I very much wish that this hall would become more unanimous and friendly and that women would like to contribute. They deserve to sit here, so that their thoughts improve Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U148	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U149	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, I'm gonna ask you a question like this. We have talked about equality between men and women. But what is your opinion, would it be worth thinking about other quotas for elections in the Riigikogu: on the basis of nationality, religion or any other characteristic? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U150	Since I answered that question when Peter Ernits asked it, it is the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U151	Thank you, Marianne Mikko! The rapporteur for the Constitutional Commission is Mart Nutt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U152	Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. a at the ordinary session of 8 June 2005. In addition to the members of the Commission and the advisers, the following persons were invited to the debate: Marianne Mikko as the representative of the initiators, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko from the Ministry of Justice, Liina Kanter, Head of the Department of Equality Policy, and Agnes Einman, Head of Gender Policy in the same department. In the Commission, Marianne Mikko, the representative of the initiators, gave a basic overview of the draft. Since Marianne Mikko introduced more or less the same principles as the one in this Chamber today, I would not dwell on it. I will, however, dwell on the discussion that took place around this draft. First of all, the arguments of the Government of the Republic. The Government of the Republic did not express its position, but both the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Social Affairs submitted their views and they did not coincide. The position of the Ministry of Justice was as follows: Striped lists are not an appropriate tool for achieving the objective, so compulsory gender quotas are not supported. Social pressure on political parties to draw up gender-balanced lists should be encouraged. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs, however, took the view that this draft would ensure a more balanced representation of men and women on the electoral lists. The answer came from the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs. According to surveys in 2014, 24% of the Estonian population supported the introduction of gender quotas. None of the participants in the Commission's debate contested the fact that the representation of men and women should be broadly equal. However, there were differing views on what measures should be taken to achieve this level playing field. The debate focused on whether quotas and striped lists are a suitable solution for achieving equal representation or whether there are other, better ways to do so. I bring out both critical positions and supporting positions. So, first, critical positions. The gender balance should be greater, but the problem is that Estonia is trying to learn from Scandinavian experiences, but in reality it is quite similar to southern Europe. Next opinion. Gender quotas are not justified and there are really no gender quotas in the Nordic countries, and the balance of representation between men and women has been achieved in other ways. At the same time, in many countries where gender quotas apply, inequalities continue to be large enough. Here, for example, Greece, where the representation of women in elected collections is only slightly above 19%, although gender quotas apply in this country. The quotas are not applied by 20 countries in the European Union, and in different ways they are implemented by eight countries. So that's today's score. This approach gives rise to scepticism. The lists shall be set up by democratic internal elections at least in the party whose representative highlighted it and the members of the party shall be free to decide who they vote for. The quota, however, will be decided on behalf of the members of the party. This, however, runs counter to democratic values. To this, the representative of the Ministry of Social Affairs said that gender balance and democratic values are not mutually exclusive and that balance is also one of democratic values. Next position. I support open lists, but the introduction of gender quotas is the opposite, which takes place in the context of closed lists, and in the context of open lists it does not produce the desired effect. Go on. Administrative interference with the will of voters can lead to discrimination against the other party. Next. This is not the first time we are discussing this issue. Striped lists are a version of positive discrimination, but their consequences may be negative. Now the arguments support it. In countries where quotas have been implemented or implemented, equal representation between men and women has improved, not necessarily equal, but improved. Quota is the fastest and most effective measure to achieve equal representation between men and women. The idea comes from Belgium, where it produced good results. If there is no administrative intervention, achieving a gender balance in Estonia would take about three generations, or circa, of 60 years. The debate was followed by procedural decisions. They were next. First of all, to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda by 13 June 2017. This decision was taken in a consensual manner. I will also read who voted in favour of this decision. These were Siim Valmar Kiisler, Toomas Paur, Jüri Adams, Lauri Luik, Maris Lauri, Liisa Oviir, Peeter Ernits, Helmut Hallemaa and Mart Nutt. Secondly, propose that the draft be rejected. There were 5 votes against and 2 abstentions. Siim Valmar Kisler, Toomas Paur, Jüri Adams, Lauri Luik and Maris Lauri voted in favour of this decision. Liisa Oviir and Peeter Ernits were opposed and Helmut Hallemaa and Mart Nutt were neutral. Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, decided to appoint a rapporteur, once again a consensual decision. Therefore, the Commission's decision is by 5 votes to 2 and 2 abstentions not to conclude the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U153	Questions for the waitress. March Sults, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U154	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Mart! The difference between a man and a woman is basically only in one chromosome. In a political context, gender-free day-care and all other things are required and done. There's no women or men, there's purple bears and stuff. In the context of such a policy, how does this proposal sound like a striped list of women and men? One place emphasizes same-sex marriages etc. and that sex as such loses its topicality, and another place emphasizes that a man and woman must be alternately. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U155	Thank you. This issue, of course, goes beyond the subject of the Commission's debate, because the Commission only discussed issues relating to this draft; we did not discuss other issues relating to gender issues. I can only say so much without taking the initiative to discuss this issue more widely, that it is important to distinguish biological issues from social issues in society. I think the kind of picture where we can deal with humanity as it is, and the way it could be is perfectly balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U156	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Did the Commission also mention the number of men who have come into politics against their will? And I would also ask for your comment on why it is still believed that quotas or stripes radically alter the free will of women to come into politics.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U158	Thank you. No, it wasn't. I think that a person who comes into politics against his free will is not a free person. So he's under pressure, and then he's following orders. In this context, it does not matter whether a man or a woman is in such a situation. I read here the arguments in favour and against the gender quotas expressed at the committee meeting. I do not want to impose my personal position in any way, but I think I dare say this, because I also said this in the Commission, the equal representation of men and women in representative bodies is very welcome and belongs to today's civilised society, but, at the same time, quotas are not the method by which we achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U159	There are no further questions for the Commission rapporteur. Thank you, Mart Nutt! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the faction of the Mikhail Stalnukhin Central Party, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U160	Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I decided to come here and say a few words, after the male colleague Madison asked the waitress what to do with the electoral lists, when there were many fewer women than men in the previous elections, and the waitress, a female member of the Riigikogu, replied that no one was perfect. I remembered where the sentence actually came from. I hope you'll remember a very nice black and white American movie there was Tony Curtis, Jack Lemmon, Marilyn Monroe, 'Gentlemen prefer blondes'. In that movie, Jack Lemmon went to a woman's dress and this crazy millionaire, old man, tried to get into bed with him all the time. That Jack Lemmon didn't sit at all, and he always explained that I don't deserve to be like this, like this, and at the end he on the boat says, "Hell, I'm a man." And then the sentence was, "Nobody is perfect." That's where it comes from. Given the situation it's come from, it's somehow very well connected to the situation we have here. Just to make a list striped, believe me, it's a real headache for every person on the list. Women vote for men anyway, don't they? But there's more women among the voters. It also assesses how many women there are and looks at whether the men on the list who cast their vote on one of them are dignified and how they view women. Something like that is going on. Just as we see that older people and younger people are represented, that they are represented in the educational sphere, medicine, etc., etc. It seems to me that this bill makes our lives this way... Maybe some snails would see it that way, model our lives in this form. It's all about what's in your pants. All we need is two stripes. Actually, life is much more colorful. Right now, to do that, men and women are going to move on, it's as stupid as it can be. It's the wrong end too. Let's talk about the problems that the society has in terms of pay gap, occupancy, job distribution, etc., would start from there, and this would create a situation where women will be chosen much more later. I am now looking at the fact that I am not going to talk about the Riigikogu here with great interest in the debate between Merkel and the fantastic Sarah Wagenknecht. Two women fight in the Bundestag as scary as men sit, the devil, the tongues between their knees, and just admire the way women deal with each other. If you've seen such a thing a few times, it's impossible to forget. So having a male or a female gender doesn't mean anything. I've seen women like rocks, they're real fighters and soldiers. And I've seen men who give up a rabbit in the woods when they get there. So you have to start on the other side. We need to start with the model of society in which a kindergarten already knows that there is women's work and that there is men's work. He goes to kindergarten, there's only women, and he links it to pay, right? When he's brought on a tour of the power plant, he only sees men at the boilers, that's something else entirely. So the situation is a little more complicated than this bill wants to put forward here. I'd like to ask for more time, just in case.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U161	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U162	In fact, this law would not affect anything. Rather, it would create a situation like the one in the old anecdote that concerns the American army. The sergeant comes to bring young soldiers to the barracks, the bus is behind you, the young are already standing in line, and then he yells to them: 'You have come from a society where there is always an interracial struggle, but now I tell you: my brigade, my barracks, there is no discrimination. To me, you're not white and black, to me, you're all the same color, like green. Now, men, let's get on the bus and the light greens sit in front and the dark greens sit in the back! " In this way in life, these situations actually end when the law tries to regulate forcefully. This bill cannot, of course, be supported by the Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U163	On behalf of the Reform Party Group, Igor Gräzin, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U164	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start with the most important thing. We are discussing something that is already at the origin of the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, for two reasons. Although the rapporteur categorically refused to answer the questions and limited himself to one reference to Mr Ernitsa, which was absolutely unsatisfactory, I must repeat. § 12 of the Estonian Constitution does not allow any discrimination, in a positive or negative sense. Positive discrimination is as illegal as negative. The other thing is, we have company freedom. If Rotary or some other organization decides that there's only men, then there's only men. The state has no right to prescribe how they should do this to people who are freely joining. There was also a little talk about political culture in Scandinavia, Sweden, and Mart here talked about it. The same practice was found in the Riigikogu of the Republic of Estonia between 1995 and 2003. When someone left the opposition, the corresponding number of coalition ambassadors did not vote. This system was brought to an end by Res Publica's arrival here, anger and hatred that was never here before Res Publica. So I'd like to fix Marianne Mikko. Estonia is the founder of this parliamentary culture and, as we know, Sweden took it from us, not the other way around. So historically, we have also been a role model. Now we are talking about discrimination, women and feminism. I completely believe that there may be good ideas behind this bill, but all this seems to be a substitute in order not to deal with the actual discrimination of women, which takes place in Estonian society. It is very easy to make a formal nomenclature list. As secretary of the old party organization, if I wanted to take a party organization as an aspirant, I first had to take the party organisation from behind the university workshop to the chronic alcoholic Sepa, because it was foreseen that intelligence would become a Communist if there were enough proletarians there. It was a problem with the blacksmith that he tended to step out of the party after sobering up, which created a new problem. But so much for my communist past. The real problem that this wing of radical feminism, which Marianne represents in this case, is not now being dealt with. I'll tell you where there's real discrimination, and it starts right here in the hall. Think about the point of sitting here at 2:00 in the morning. What is the general mentality? When a man comes home at 2:00 a.m. or 3:00 a.m. with light smells, it doesn't cause a problem. But what about the husband or woman who comes home at 2:00 a.m. or 3:00 a.m.? That's not what I've made up, that's what Kitzberg wrote about. I mean, we have different stereotypes. The current organisation of the Riigikogu hits women considerably more than men. Men can be here at 10:00 and 11:00, well, ultimately wherever you are. Women are more responsible and have more fragile health. Every time the Riigikogu decides that we sit here all night, that's the discrimination, that's what we avoid in the Riigikogu being older people, people with weaker health, and that's what beats the women of the Riigikogu out of here. I have one suggestion, but it is too reasonable for the feminist wing that Marianne represents to embrace it. The proposal is very simple. We write that the work of the Riigikogu starts at 9 a.m. and ends at 6 p.m. every day, and the work of the Riigikogu is on a lunch break from 12.30 to 14.00 p.m. That's it. I'm warning you, by the way! There's an incredibly ridiculous idea going around here somewhere, starting from Monday, to hold extraordinary sessions again, and there's no reason for it. It's just the government didn't bother to work, didn't get their laws done. Scumbags! So what? What are we to blame for? But the idea is precisely that we are beating the opposition and the corner of Parliament, because we are the government and you have to dance to our instruments. Fine, we're gonna make it! I guess it's been a night here before, and as Siim Kallas says, there's something to forget. But since we are talking today about feminism and women's rights, then, fellow men, you understand that women cannot do it, we set up the working time of the Riigikogu and we work like normal people. The singing revolution is over and there are no Russians in the Sinimäed Hills. So there's no reason for us to work here after 6:00 a.m. and Monday because Ratas can't do it. It would be in the interests of women. Thank you. [[A little applause.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U165	On behalf of the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, Henn Põlluaas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U166	Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the greater participation of women in politics is very welcome, but the introduction of sotsi striped lists, or gender quotas, in elections is an extreme and undemocratic requirement that discriminates against men, directly violates the principle of gender equality and the laws in force in Estonia. The law clearly states that no one should be favored because of his sex. Mikko said that, in any case, women's candidates should be preferred, shows that the aim of the sots is not gender equality, but is actually trying to establish a society of prohibitions and orders and a vulgar gender quota regime for the purpose of carrying out its own left-wing, liberal and extremist objectives. I have not observed in Estonia that a woman who is intelligent and competent and wants to participate in promoting social life would have been rejected because she is a woman. On the contrary, women's candidates will be welcomed into any list, but women are much more difficult to include because of their less political interest. Ultimately, people still choose those who sympathize with them as politicians and who they trust, not men or women. There have been, are and will be very good and competent female politicians in Estonian politics. Even the President of Estonia is a woman, and the undeniable fact is that he was chosen overwhelmingly with the votes of 'narrow middle-aged heterosexuals'. The reason why there are no more women in politics is not that men are not allowed and women are discriminated against, but that of others. Statistics as well as the current election results of the Riigikogu and local governments, also refer to the fact that in a situation where we have more women than men among voters, female voters have preferred male candidates. There is also no reason to claim that women do a significantly different policy in power only because they are women. The proposal of the Socialists essentially means questioning the decision-making and decision-making of the electorate, the people. According to the Constitution, the people are the supreme bearer of state authority, whose decision-making powers the left-wing liberals seek to question. If we agree that no matter what sex a person does some work, as long as he does so well and, in the case of the Riigikogu, with the mandate of the people, how can we demand that members of the Riigikogu know the difference by gender? It is much better to motivate and encourage people in a positive way. But if women still don't want to do politics, what do we do? Are we going to force them to comply with the striped precepts of the Sots? Forced quotas would create a situation where the choice of people, which is already distorted by the passing of votes, would be even less in line with voters' preferences and expectations. It is extremely short-sighted to make the power exercise by those who may not want it, who may not be competent and whose sole justification for power is a norm imposed by the will of the sots. When, at the legislative level, the quota policy of the sots is being implemented, it clearly means retreating from democratic principles. Knowing the tactics and strategic behaviour of the left-wing liberals, we can be sure that the issue of quotas is not limited to that. This is just the beginning. Next, we'll probably see the imposition of homo-, migrant and god-know-what-quotas. Stripes can become rainbow-coloured. And from there, it would only be a small step to begin to determine who and which political forces may be represented in Parliament at all. Such clues have already been heard from the mouths of the sots. The artificial increase in the proportion of women can lead to a situation where women's substantive participation remains secondary, as the choice may not be based on competence. The Estonian public does not support the establishment of gender quotas either. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U167	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U168	According to a survey conducted by Turku Research AS at the beginning of this year, 76% of Estonian citizens are not in favour of it. Most people, both women and men, experience the introduction of compulsory gender quotas for sots to be downgraded. Gender quotas would be a national finding that women are not equal to men. To gain leadership, they need directly the support and advantages of the law. That's probably the view of the Sos. People's choice must be based on their competence and experience, not on sex or any other outsider. The Sorts are ignoring what is stated in our laws: equality means that we never prefer any person solely because of his gender. After all, there are many ways of eliminating inequalities, valuing women, etc., other than the introduction of compulsory quotas, but, unfortunately, only vulgar and repressive methods are effective in the eyes of the sots, which cause opposition to the majority of society. It seems violently that the aim of the social radical faminists is to fight between men and women in order to implement their perverted left-liberal agenda. In addition, women's and mothers' eyesight is supposed to be sexist, harassing and discriminatory, all the more so as sex is merely a social construction. I wonder if the opportunity to change sex supported by sots every six months will bring the gender quota issue to an end. The introduction of compulsory gender quotas in the establishment of electoral lists has been one of the recurring and consistent issues of the social partners. The desire for the state to report on how political parties deal with their internal affairs is unconstitutional, dangerous and undemocratic. Such crazy, literally crazy, discriminatory and extreme ideas must already be rejected in the bud. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U169	On behalf of the Free Party Group, Monika Haukanõm, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U170	Thank you, Mr President. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! First of all, I would like to thank the initiators of the draft for raising an important debate, because the passion here was heated. The Free Party did not knowingly use striped lists in the 2015 Riigikogu elections. A general list was established as a result of a vote between members. Each member was able to influence the order of the common list and, as a result, both men and women were at the forefront of the common list. This shows that on the electoral list, women receive positions equivalent to men, not because they are women, i.e. because of gender, but because women are smart, educated, prominent and have gained sufficient publicity for their previous work and activities and are trusted equally, often even more. The result is that three out of eight members of the Free Party Group, i.e. 37.5%, are women without any stripes. Striped lists resemble a little bit of this competitive social democracy, but in fact, gender is the most important people and ideas, the willingness to participate in political life. The good and the right goal of more women into politics is not achieved by commands and threats, but by positive motivation. Therefore, it is not just a question of voting lists in the Riigikogu, it is actually much wider. It is a question of changing attitudes in society that women and men are equal and equally valuable. It is not a question of gender. On May 26th, Sirbis published an excellent article entitled 'Why didn't any girl become an art historian? '. It was written by Eero Kangur. I strongly recommend you read it. The article discusses Krista Kodres, the first professor of female art history in Estonia, who received this title in 2003, although this specialty was taught a hundred years ago. A hundred years ago, good Estonian women who had a wide circle of eyes and a good foreign language skills learned the same specialization, but nevertheless they failed to pursue a political career. Why? Because it seems to me that in the woman's view, unfortunately, there are still times when the bearer of the basic weight is still seen in national bio-production, which is why his pursuit of higher education may have been disastrous for national growth. Perhaps she was often a dangerous competitor for men. Fortunately, this 100-year-old attitude no longer exists, we have already taken a big step forward. But I still think we don't have to try to change the traditional role of a woman in society by force. Let us admit that society has changed. If a woman or a man feels that he wants to participate in politics, to participate in important social processes, to run a business or a company or anything, then less and less and less play a role here by gender, but rather by preventing his personal and professional skills. Therefore, we no longer behave the way we did a hundred years ago and, fortunately, we no longer have social, educational and ideological restrictions that put women in the background. This means that we, as women, really do not need a place on the list of men's mercy, forced, but because we deserve this place, because we can offer what cannot be achieved without women. When you ask women whether we want to be elected or appointed solely because of gender, because we are women, most do not support it and do not want it. Neither do I. Why? Because it raises the question, which is more important: either that I'm a woman, or that I'm worth something. And I'd really like the last one better. Apparently, for many of you, this story seems idealistic and even naive. If we begin to determine the opportunities for men and women to participate in politics and state governance in a coercive way, through an ordering and banning, by tightening up, I see a couple of danger points here. We inspire that women are the weakest that must be pushed forward by power. It may begin to inhibit the process of "natural growth" in society. We order this to be done, not that it is normal and self-evident that women are equal to men. This could lead to the opposite process or slow Estonia's progress towards a more equal society. We force women into politics with power, because we need to get more women into politics with stripes. Do we not take freedom of choice from both men and women? But if there aren't any women, will there be no list? Like the example given by Andres Herkel from Hiiumaa, can we not present a list? Do we need more women in government governance and politics? Do we need more women in the Riigikogu to make our decisions more balanced and fairer? Yeah, sure, there's no doubt about that. But the question is whether striped lists are the best way to achieve this. Let us, then, learn from the North, which we often want to set an example for ourselves. We are moving towards a more equal policy and we are skipping this phase of the so-called striped lists. The striped list method does not automatically guarantee us the desired result so that there are more women in politics. Ultimately, it is more important than the list to vote on the voter. And it's already a process of values and growth in society. So wise decisions for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U171	On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Tiina Kangro, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to make it clear that I am speaking on my own behalf, having coordinated this speech with the group. The Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance has jointly decided, with the exception of me, to vote in favour of the removal of this draft from the procedure. However, I do have some thoughts that I consider appropriate to convey today. A moment ago, Igor Gräzin announced from this remote office that he would invite the members of the Riigikogu to assist the women of the Riigikogu and to make an adjustment to the Riigikogu's law on home and working procedures, banning night-time sittings. Igor explained that the women of the Riigikogu could not make such a decision anyway. I would like to make it clear that until yesterday, the political groups of the Riigikogu were able to submit proposals to the management board to supplement the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu, and I personally sent a proposal to Eiki Nestor to find a way to stop organising night sittings without a valid state cause. However, my proposal, which I hope will receive a dignified recognition on the Board of the Riigikogu and on the basis of which action will be taken, is born after a longer period of thinking. I have consulted very many members of the Riigikogu. Interestingly, when I spoke to female members, they generally replied that yes, it is a serious question, it deserves to be changed. As far as I have spoken to the male members of the Riigikogu, they have mostly responded in such a way that my health is so good that this night stand does nothing to me. At the same time, we all know that, for the most part, such night work has clearly affected men, since the health of men, especially men aged 50+, is more vulnerable. Let's go. While sitting in this Chamber and following this interesting and long debate, I remembered some of the speeches made by Estonian politicians. While we were discussing the topic of family doctors years ago, the then Minister of Social Affairs, Hanno Pevkur, pointed out in the media, as if the problem was not serious enough, that he had a very good family doctor. In this Chamber today, we heard several speakers say during the debate on the declaration of violence against women, while they personally have everything in order in the family, are women, are children and have mutual understanding. We also heard somebody in this hall love women from the age of five. I also recall an example when Taavi Rõivas was the Minister of Social Affairs and the subject was the lack of people's access to dental care. Taavi Kõivas said that he personally feels that dental care is not so much needed when brushing his teeth twice a day and teaching it to his children. A little better class was shown years ago by Andrus Ansip, who did not talk about his personal thoughts, but often stressed that his wife had said at home that these things were in health care and not in health care. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill we are discussing here today is not really... A few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U173	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U174	... the best with which one country could solve the issue of women's and men's more equal participation in politics. Therefore, both the proposal of the commission and the views of several political groups must be accepted. Since there may be a contradiction between this draft and the Constitution and a number of other principles, I understand those who vote in favour of rejecting it. As I mentioned at the beginning, my group has also decided to vote in favour of the rejection of this draft, but I have reserved a dissenting opinion and I am voting in favour of maintaining this draft. It is not because I think that this is the form in which we should regulate the more equal participation of women and men in parliamentary work as well as in local governments. I want to give my vote in favour of discussing these issues further and we believe it is right that, in some reasonable way, there must be more women in politics and in other places in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-06-13_U175	There are no more requests to speak, I will close the negotiations. The proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to reject draft law 424 at first reading. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 424 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu were in favour of the proposal of the Constitutional Committee, 16 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was supported and draft 424 falls outside the procedure. I'll see you tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 12.42 p.m.
