ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! It's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to pass on, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, a draft law amending the Public Transport Act and the Local Government Organisation Act. This would give the local authorities of Saaremaa, Muhumaa and Hiiumaa the opportunity to organise ferry and air traffic. Currently, the Road Administration is competent to organise ferry and air traffic under the Public Transport Act. According to the draft, local authorities in the large islands will be given the opportunity to organise public transport, including ferry traffic between the large islands and the mainland, as well as air traffic. As a result of the adoption of the draft, municipalities would have more rights to organise their people's lives better and, of course, island visitors would be better placed on the islands and back to the mainland. The local authority is best aware of the mobility needs of its people and of the operators involved in the islands and provides an opportunity to organise these movements more efficiently and operationally. The purpose of the Act is not to grant additional funding to the municipality, but to grant the right to organise ship and air traffic in accordance with the needs and expectations of the inhabitants of the islands. All these ferry and air traffic operations are, of course, financed from the state budget and the draft does not automatically provide for an increase in budget expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U3	No more wishes. I have adopted one draft and we are taking it into procedure under the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. Incoming check, please! There are 86 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U4	By way of introduction to our first item on the agenda, let me remind you of the procedure for this procedure. First, the Chancellor of Justice has an overview for up to 20 minutes and then questions for the waitress. A member of the Riigikogu may ask a single question to the rapporteur. Then there are negotiations, which may be attended by representatives of the political groups. The Chancellor of Justice of the Republic of Estonia 2016. An overview of the activities carried out in 2005. Please waitress Chancellor Ülle Madise!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U5	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Riigikogu! An overview of the Chancellor of Justice's activities during the review period, i.e. from 1 September 2016 to 31 August 2017, is available to you and the public on the Internet, as usual. It focuses on the main task of the Chancellor of Justice in accordance with the Constitution: to preserve the Estonian Constitution and help people solve their problems in the fastest lawful way. As far as possible, I have tried to mitigate unnecessary tensions or at least not to create more. Whether and to what extent this has succeeded is up to you, honourable Riigikogu. Within a year, 3343 different types of letters or addresses arrived in our office. More importantly, we dealt with 2228 matters, and still through the prism of constitutional protection. Of course, this year, too, some complaints and complaints were brought to my table where a person claimed to have been treated unfairly, the state, parish or city, bailiff, tax officer, police officer or judge. In these cases, there is nothing more to do than simply explain that justice, and often what is good for Estonia, is or should at least be at the heart of the elections. Justice, as well as what is good for Estonia, will be decided primarily on the basis of the mandate received from the Riigikogu electorate. In the constitutional balance formula, the Riigikogu, the President, the Government, the courts, the Chancellor of Justice, the National Audit Office is rightly the first member of the Riigikogu. Last year, in the context of the presidential elections, it had to be stressed over and over again that the Republic of Estonia is governed by the Riigikogu, no one else, but of course within the framework of the Constitution. The Constitution also applies to the Riigikogu. But constitutional review, be it at the hands of the courts, the Supreme Court or the Chancellor of Justice, extends to the limit of political choices made on the basis of the mandate received from the people. We repeated all this over the summer when we presented one of the top works of Estonian constitutional law, the fourth, revised edition of the constitutional comments. In addition, we helped put a documentary into the language of the film with the support of private donors of the birth story of our constitution, by the way. This was the last opportunity: the members of the Constitutional Assembly, the experts and those who remember that era are still among us. It seems to me, and I believe you too, that the importance of the Constitution, its nature, the difference between ordinary law and the plaything must be explained tirelessly. In this review year, too, a number of complex constitutional issues remained, starting, of course, with the law on administrative reform and ending with an increase in the tax rates allowed in advance for the same years. As usual, the review brings together the results and observations that could be lost in the history of constitutional law last year. Hyperlinks lead to a holistic view. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am most pleased that a number of people's concerns have been resolved, or at least a thorough explanation. Many mistakes are often random and not intentional, and so the Riigikogu reacted quickly several times during the previous review period. We haven't made any noise. The problems that led to the anti-constitutional situation have been corrected at the initiative of the committees. Thank you for that! I would also like to congratulate those officials who, following the encouragement of our people, have saved people from an unconstitutional situation. It is probably worth thinking more about what has happened that so many officials have become so discouraged and formalistic. But thank you to those who still dare to think with their head and have a heart in their chest. It is also very pleased that with the support of the Supreme Court, Estonia took a step closer to the fair organisation of employment relations in the 21st century. There was a problem that I was talking about right here in front of you a year ago. Now the unemployment benefit will no longer be deprived of the person who has paid the insurance premium properly and lost his or her working income, but in writing as a member of the company's management board, so that he or she does not receive any income. At the same time, hypocrisy and probably the use of so-called "tankers" decreased. A lot of people got out of an unconstitutional situation. It is also important that it became clear in society at large that in the future work will take place in very different forms, both us and elsewhere. There is reason to congratulate the Riigikogu. This same Uber law is certainly something that can be criticised, something that can always be better, confirms that Estonia is capable of being one of the road indicators in this area, and that is very good. According to the Constitution, we also need to ensure a social safety net in the context of changed industrial relations. Taxes must be collected and a reasonable way must be found to ensure that everyone has a decent living, even at a minimum level. I am also trying to contribute to my position on this issue. Honourable representatives of the people! When I took office, I promised that I would use the role of the founder of the legal peace given to the Chancellor of Justice, i.e. the right to initiate constitutional supervision even if I myself am not fully convinced that the law is unconstitutional, but there is a great deal of tension in society, with lawyers, entrepreneurs and the public digging into the trenches, and clarity needed to move forward. This was the case during the last review period. It was a question of raising excise duty rates in advance for years. In law it is true that a term promise is stronger than a term term, which is known to all of us from work contracts and rental contracts. So far, tax laws and pre-established tax rates have been examined in this way. This time the Supreme Court found that the increase in excise duty rates was constitutional and thus the necessary clarity came to light. This case also confirmed the cleverness of our constitutional oversight arrangements. If the President had vetoed these tax increases on the basis of the earlier practice of the Supreme Court, as required by the public, this would have allowed the new government coalition to act for months and significantly restricted the rights of the Riigikogu. The Head of State declared the law by asking the Chancellor of Justice to check points suspected of being unconstitutional. In my opinion, this decision was statesmanly, in close harmony with the spirit of the Constitution and, as it later turned out, the only right one. Undoubtedly, in your work as well as in the work of the Chancellor of Justice's office last year, the administrative reform has sealed the seal. It's been prepared for years for a major reform, but there was no escape from the complications, from the falls. This is probably inevitable in the case of such a large-scale restructuring. The office of the Chancellor of Justice gave the Supreme Court views on these matters and, of course, we tried to do so in a really thorough way, with a large interdepartmental working group. After all, this has been thoroughly written in the theory of Estonian constitutional law, but in practice it has not been tested. The main authors of the section on the autonomy of the local government of the theory of Estonian state law are employed in the office of Chancellor of Justice. So in that sense, our focus was also natural. We also tried to make an ongoing assessment of draft regulations on compulsory membership by participating in the government meeting. That, too, is the point of the Constitution, which is why the Chancellor of Justice needs to be held in government offices. I hope that we have succeeded in acting in the spirit of the Constitution: independently, impartially, avoiding tensions. At this point, I thank the government and the officials of the Ministry of Finance for their good cooperation. However, when it comes to the expected results of the local government reform, there is a lot of work to be done here. One of our major projects is to monitor whether the local government can provide people with the social assistance that the constitution and laws require of them. However, the first visits have produced such a result that several cities and municipalities, i.e. some municipalities, know at all that they should provide all social services, from helping at home to organising debt counselling and childcare, have said that they cannot comply with the law or help their people to the required extent. The state has to give separate money for this. Thus, there is an inherent dispute over local life issues and the financing model. I am defending the constitutional model in this dispute. I would argue that in a given city or municipality, even today, local life issues (e.g. good times, public space, state aid, bringing social benefits to those in need) are best addressed by the elected council of the same community. State-of-life issues must be resolved in the same way throughout the country, based on the same standard. The local government can also participate in the event of a choice, but in this case all must be paid out of the state budget. According to the Constitution, I would like to emphasise once again, neither the municipality nor the city is an extension of state authority on the ground. Good Riigikogu! There are also serious concerns that might be easier to solve, but for some reason they will not be solved. Keyword: Apartment buildings empty by Kohtla-Järve. The city is trying to help people, many other local authorities may not be as good. But we hear from the Ministry that, over and over again, it is necessary to order new and new analyses for taxpayers' money. However, these analyses have already been commissioned for taxpayers' money. There are officials in the Ministry who could propose sensible solutions across Estonia on the basis of them, but this is not done. And that leads to a more general legislative problem. Those officials who could solve people's real problems, smart people! just, it is often a job that is not needed at all or that is not at least a first priority issue. From the point of view of the development of the Estonian legal order, I believe that the only positive thing that can be said last year is that there is more debate about the comprehension of laws. In other respects, however, substitution activities, unnecessary re-writing of laws and thus creating unnecessary costs for society will continue. The European Union's resources, which, in my opinion, often do not go ahead in this particular area, give some of our fellow citizens jobs and benefits, but, unfortunately, cause a great deal of damage to society. Yes, the economy may be recovering, but the legal order, as well as the administrative capacity, are weakening. I'm afraid it's still a rake here, even with Imbi and Arn, using the statues of the Heroes of the Stone Spruce. About the same motive, but not just because of this, we see again and this time quite vigorous attempts to change the balance formula of constitutional institutions without finding out what is wrong, why it is needed and obviously not understanding the dangers. There is no doubt that the Constitution and the organisation of the state can be changed, but it would be sensible, with a thorough and impartial analysis, with the aim of improving what is wrong or of doing something that would create the prerequisites for much better. Fortunately, there is still a position in this Chamber that 25 years ago in the Constitutional Assembly, not at all easy! The method of state administration agreed and approved in the referendum has served Estonia well and carried it forward. I therefore think that it is no use to change the system that has worked well so far and not to waste people's time trying to take such unnecessary air. If you don't mind, I'm gonna talk about one more thorough recommendation. I do not believe, and I suggest that you do not believe in the argumentation that is at the heart of the claim that this is the case in other countries. Recently, I asked again the official who said this with an important face at the government hearing: 'Ah in other countries, but in what particular way? And what's it like, and why do you think it's okay? If you can really say that it is good there, why do you say that Estonia would be good if it were the same? " There was no answer. The constitutional idea of Estonia is to be Estonia. Of course, you have to learn first and foremost from the mistakes of others and perhaps even to use them wisely, but copying others is laziness and a bad thing to do. In my experience, we sometimes use international recommendations here to do our own business. This means that these recommendations are designed right here to add weight to their applications. Honourable Riigikogu! One more serious issue is where I hope to contribute to greater progress by the end of my term of office. It's a matter of the dignity of the end of life. The Chancellor of Justice's visits to nursing homes, the description of the conditions there and the recommendations to ensure decent treatment will hopefully ultimately lead to the self-respect of older people and other people in need becoming a central issue in future electoral debates. The point is, no one else's account, but in general, the welfare system needs extra money, especially to hire staff in nursing homes and to improve the space solution. Much can be done right now, changing work habits, organisation, and attitude. The criticism doesn't apply to all guardians here. Their work is physically and spiritually extremely difficult; many do so with a heart and with a wonderful heart, but unfortunately, there are a great number of those who are calved in this work. If something is to be welcomed in this area, it is that unequal treatment based on age, which has no reasonable justification, has become more noticeable and has become an important topic in society. I would like to emphasise once again that the conflict between generations should be ruled out. Older ones are also part of us who are indebted to our parents and grandparents. The special number of Juridica Abstract's legal journal, which appeared on the initiative of our department, deals with these issues and we will certainly send it to the relevant committees for reading. As stated in the preface, it is for reading to everyone, not just lawyers. Good Riigikogu! There will be a debate on democracy in this Chamber on Thursday. It is also a subject that, despite the fact that the meaning of the word has taken very different forms or even almost disappeared, always deserves to be deepened and discussed. It must certainly be stressed that one thing is opinion, the other is knowledge. Decisions should be made on the basis of knowledge. Remembering the summer opinion festival, the argument over and over again sounded like it was useless because nothing was decided. I think the greatest value of the opinion festival is that people see others think differently. They feel passionately, often unprepared to change their opinions, beliefs, or views. And you have to know how to live in a free society. Honourable Riigikogu! It is up to you to not replace the opinion festival with the decision-making festival. I'd be scared of the decision festival myself. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its thorough consideration in the Commission's session. And I thank all members of the Riigikogu for their good and reasonable cooperation with each other in view of each other's constitutional role last season! I hope we continue to do so. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U6	Thank you, Chancellor Ülle Madise! Questions for the waitress. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U7	Thank you very much. Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for a constructive analytical report, especially for the complementary passages intended for members of the Riigikogu in this presentation. My question is based on your observation and your statement that justice is the main topic of the elections. I believe that for many voters, as well as for media representatives, this statement is surprising that the main issue is not dust-free roads, free public transport and many other moments, but justice. Since there are certainly a great many arguments, which are justice, and everyone has the right to justice, I would ask you to comment more precisely on this statement in the context of the approaching local elections. You say that the Riigikogu sets the concept of justice for the whole society. In the run-up to these elections, members and ministers of the Riigikogu have been accused of participating in the elections at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U8	Thank you very much for a very good question. Justice is even involved in making roads dustless. After all, the question is whether the road that leads to the store, the road that leads to the old man, or the road that leads to the parish elder, must first be dust-free and opened in winter. There is no other issue in local elections than how to make the best possible use of this common community money. Of course, we can talk about values and longer development plans, but basically, a decision is made on the use of a limited resource and it is always about fairness. The second part of the question concerned the application and the election. In the current debates, it really stands out that it has been forgotten that they applied earlier. The difference is that it wasn't possible to go to the council before, I mean the members of the Riigikogu, now it can. After the term of office of a member of the Riigikogu has ended, it is also possible for ministers who do not now go to the councils to actually take up work on the municipal councils. The argument that local councils will now be taken over cannot really be true, as the seats of council members throughout Estonia continue to be very much more than the seats of members of the Riigikogu and I personally believe in the strength of the salt of the land of local people. One member of the Riigikogu from any political group at the council will not be able to take over the council and completely shut down all other elected members of the local community.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U9	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! My question concerns corruption in local governments. I thank you very much for the address you have just made to a Riigikogu committee, where there were five very clear points that should be amended in law. But I'm going to expand this: how good do you consider the work of local government council review committees to be, their competence? We sometimes have such alarming signals that even if proper work plans are made, where there are such oppositional beginnings that there should also be verification, councils do not always confirm them, so-called teeth are taken away. The other side that we can do is probably, through the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, strengthen the internal control of the municipalities and ensure the disclosure of all possible trading partners of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U11	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the Riigikogu has received this appeal so well. I believe that these problems can be resolved, and I believe that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will be working on this very soon. This is one of the reasons for the appeal that unfortunately the local audit committee is not able to assess the feasibility, transparency, honesty of using the local community resource. There are some things you can do to change the law. And there are very different models of how to strengthen the audit committee or how to involve external auditors, for example, without unconstitutionally restricting local autonomy. If the Riigikogu so wishes, the people of the Chancellor of Justice's office will be happy to share their knowledge in these discussions. At the moment, I wouldn't share specific recommendations in favour of one or another of the technical choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U12	Helmut Hallemaa, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U13	Thank you. Dear waitress, thank you for this review and, of course, for you and your department's strength for the future. Certainly, the administrative reform now, less than a month before the elections, is an important issue. There was a substantive debate in our committee, and there you said something about the fact that in the case of administrative reform, especially in the case of compulsory government mergers, the benefits to people must be measured. Measuring its benefits is, in my opinion, particularly difficult. But my question is, how do you and your department appreciate it? You have once said in this Chamber that you will also carry out a constitutional review procedure later. How do you plan to do that? And how do you plan to assess this benefit in the future, after the administrative reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U14	Thank you very much. The work plan has been drawn up and it is now planned, after forced mergers, to circle Estonia on a sample basis: to look at the regulations of the merged local government units, first and foremost, of course, to comply with these regulations, as well as to provide information to people. We also have certain recommendations that we hope to follow. In short, the result should be that the local community knows and can easily find out what help it can receive from the local government, and this help will also reach it in a reasonable and dignified way. Indeed, this is to be verified on the basis of a control plan. Regulations that are contrary to the law are also contrary to the Constitution. So it is possible that there will also be matters of constitutional supervision in a narrower sense, but in a broader sense the dimension of all this activity is constitutionality.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U15	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U16	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! Every year, when you summarise the year, you also give a small accent on officials. Last year, you said, for example, that the period was marked by a lack of cooperation between society, politicians and officials and a more fragile trust in each other. In today's speech, you said that officials have become discouraged and formalistic, and you added that it is worth considering why this is the case. I'm sure you, Madam Chancellor, have thought about this yourself. Can any conclusions be drawn or more far-reaching recommendations be made for Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U17	Thank you very much. These views are not contradictory, but in many ways grow out of each other and do not seek generalisation, not extend to all officials in all state and local government institutions. The observation is that over the years, it is as if officials who have been suppressed are willing to think with their heads. Yeah, we know that sometimes this head-to-head thinking gives funny or really stupid results, and it's probably easier for some heads of institutions to stop thinking with their heads. But on the other hand there is an evil flock, when the leadership also refuses to pursue justice, shows the Riigikogu and says that there are politicians there, and there is nothing we can do. Very often, however, it is possible to apply the law sensibly and constitutionally, but this is not done on the basis of the guidelines of the head of the particular office, and the public, the Chancellor of Justice's office, people who are caught by gears, are said to be the fault of the Riigikogu. Explain, then, that there isn't. If you want one good example, the Tax and Customs Board won a clear message award last year. Last week's clear message at the conference, the representative of the Tax and Customs Board, explained precisely what was happening. And, you know, one of those acts was to replace the evil title 'Organisation', 'Prescription' or 'Requirement' in a tax directive or order of the tax authorities with a reasonable word referring to a partnership and to abandon a four-page text On top of this text, the Tax and Customs Board had received about this kind of feedback: 'I have paid taxes for 15 years, nothing has been hidden to my knowledge, and it is not more than a day late. And now you're going to send me a letter called 'Organisation' and have three pages of reference, the fourth line already says 'undfill-in'. Only somewhere in the supplement can I find the word 'VAT', i.e. the point is that I am late for paying VAT, please don't do that. ' Even making such a change took a huge debate and courage to say that it is okay to put the title in human language and to write politely to a person from the outset, so that I would ask you to pay the debt. So some things have gotten better, some of the problems have survived. Why have officials become breeding? It's hard to say. We all have to think.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U18	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U19	Good Chancellor of Justice! The independence of the court is a very bad thing when the court refuses to work. I claim that our Supreme Court system betrayed our local governments who went to complain about administrative reform. At first, it was said that it was not a question of constitutionality, it was an administrative matter. The Administrative College considered that they were not going to review individual cases as an example of the Loksa exception. It was about Kambja, Ülenurmet, etc. In other words, the Supreme Court played a ball between the two colleges with the aim of not saying anything. Especially as a lawyer, I know that there are a lot of court judgments that don't like them at all. But I like decisions that I don't like at all because they're decisions. What I don't like at all is how people go to the Supreme Court together and play a fool in the sense that they try to ignore a constitutional institution, a local government. What must be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U20	Thank you very much. I believe that the President of the Supreme Court is better able to answer about the organisation of the work of the Supreme Court. I can say so much that there are no grounds for disciplinary action against anyone, as far as I know. I think that so far these disputes have been within the limits of the Constitution. Yes, I too regret that, despite the fact that the Chancellor of Justice has already requested an assessment of the December decision, which would provide the local authorities with clarity as to whether the possible compulsory merger regulations should be challenged by the administrative court or constitutional review procedure, this assessment did not come up at that time. However, Professor Põll's dissent was a guideline for many. We, too, wrote in our opinion why this particular issue of the existence of a local government unit is a central issue of constitutional supervision, which of course belongs to the constitutional review procedure. Fortunately, this is the case now, and I very much hope that there will be very well-founded decisions that enrich the theory of Estonian constitutional law.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U21	Peter Ernits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U22	Good manager! Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you for your excellent work. But I have a little question. When you look at the few thousand turnarounds that have come across Estonia, it stands out that a little bit of the ratio has come from some regions, such as Jõgevamaa, Raplamaa, Järvamaa. My question is: are there stories of justice and justice in the best order or, on the contrary, the people there have given up and have not seen the point of turning?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U23	Thank you very much. There are two answers to the question. One thing is that the collection of statistics needs to be looked at again in the modern world, because in about 500 cases, the visitor has not defined his location. On the other hand, you are certainly right. As we move around Estonia, both I and the councillors of my administration have often found that if in some municipalities people are more aware of their rights, including the possibility of turning to the Chancellor of Justice, there are other areas where less is known. It is true that we must also think about how to get to these people. That everything in all the counties you referred to is constitutional and impeccable, so it can't get any better, I'd really like to believe, but I don't.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U24	Krista Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U25	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Chancellor of Justice, thank you for your report and for your very clear view. My question concerns an area that you have a little backwards this year, but which you have addressed and evaluated in previous years. It's an educational system. You have pointed out that the tasks and responsibilities of the central government and local government have not been clearly defined and defined in previous years. Have there been any changes in this respect in the last period and are they positive?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U26	Thank you very much, it turned out to be true! During this review period, we followed mostly planned changes and these changes have not yet come true. The question is who holds basic schools, who holds upper secondary schools and what about vocational education. The issue of higher education is also seriously on the table. Pre-school education, fortunately, is a more or less clear issue, although there are also financing, kindergarten qualifications and pay problems. So these issues are indeed being discussed in ministries and government, and we will, of course, monitor developments as far as we can. A separate question is the issue of children with special needs, and I repeat what was also in the briefing. In my opinion, the issue of local life and the issue of state life must still be distinguished fundamentally. And I don't think it's just to show that the percentage of money flowing through the municipal budget is higher to make decisions at the expense of people.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U27	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! We were able to read in the papers this summer that the leaders of the sports federations came to see you. These included children's transitional fees and unduly high fees. When I read that story, two things bothered me. Firstly, the fact that there are very many cases of minors and, on the other hand, that the remuneration of these trainings comes from a system of coach remuneration, from the parent's pocket, from the local government's pocket and from the state's pocket. Does it not seem to you that this is clearly a restriction on the person's freedoms, which is not in accordance with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U29	Thank you very much. Yes, indeed, we dealt with the fees and procedures for children's club change. This is a subject that is beyond the competence of the Chancellor of Justice, perhaps some very serious, influential levers we do not have to direct sports clubs. But what we could do was make it clear to ourselves, ask the representatives of the major sports federations to the table to explain three things to them. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia and the rules of child protection, the interests of children must take precedence. In fact, it is also in the interests of society that each child grows into its best version so that it can develop its own abilities, engage in sports and art, learn, be just like that, be full and healthy. And that's why we made three recommendations. First, when coaches are in a fight or a club change, they must not prevent the child from exercising or competing. This fight doesn't have to get to the baby, and it doesn't have to get to him. It doesn't have to get to him. Secondly, which is particularly important: no contract must be guaranteed by the child, his or her rights. It would be absolutely unethical, completely outside the Constitution. And thirdly, we put the parents to heart: careful about signing contracts! It was also a matter of how parents have easily allowed a minor to go abroad to a sports club and also to a high school there. If a child cannot learn a foreign language in upper secondary school and wishes to return to his/her home country to get his/her education, it turns out that it is extremely difficult and very expensive to get away from the sports club. Such agreements should definitely not be concluded. Now, with regard to the financing of children's education of interest, including training, from the taxpayer's budget, i.e. public funds, this is a typical question of political decision. The constitutional dimension is indirect here, but it does exist. Let us, for example, have one debate that has arisen in the United States and which has also been reflected in the press in the United States. Sport is also increasing the stratification of society. After all, everyone imagines what it means for children to be able to spend time with their friends or training companions, go to camp, go to competitions, what it means to race for equipment, which we all know. When a child is not yet mature, it is sometimes very important to him. What has happened in America is that child sport has become a separate industry, which also creates and deepens irreversible stratification. Estonia is not so far away yet, but it seems to me that this is one thing worth avoiding at all costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U30	Hanno Pevkur, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U31	Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for this fine presentation. As local elections are coming, some issues need to be resolved both before these local elections and for the future. One of these is certainly the right of people to belong to and be elected to the council. According to memory, the law in force provides that if a person is convicted of a crime, he must leave the council. He may ask people again for a mandate to apply for the new council. For example, if someone is convicted of a crime this week and does not appeal, the judgment will enter into force, he will have the right to ask the people again for a mandate on 15 October. What is your opinion, whether it would be wise to limit the right to apply to a council for certain types of crime, whether it be corruption or, figuratively speaking, the theft of public money, and thus to give society the understanding that running for a council and leaving the council are related to whether or not public money is being stolen?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U32	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that members of the Riigikogu, political groups and committees have the right to initiate a draft in this regard. Is that consistent with the Constitution? We need to analyze it. There are arguments in favour and against the application limit, and I fully agree that the arguments in favour are also strong. In fact, it sounds pretty good with a letter sent to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs last week. It said, among other things, without bringing out specific municipalities or their officials, to say the names of the corrupt, that, unfortunately, the current legal order makes it possible for a person who has been convicted of stealing from his own city or rural municipality, who is a corrupt person, to be taken there, for example, as a political adviser to a rural municipality or city manager, to be excluded from employment restrictions. There's definitely an evil herd there. If, for some reason, the people give a new mandate to people who have stolen from him and ignored the rules of fair play, do they have to take that opportunity away from them? That's debatable. But whether a corruptant should be able to continue to decide on the people and property of the city or the municipality is, in my opinion, no place for debate. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U33	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U34	Thank you, good Chairman. Thank you, Chancellor, for your work and your presentation. Your office is also involved in the funding of political parties, you have a representative on the monitoring committee. Would you please highlight the bottlenecks that the Riigikogu should definitely pay attention to in the near future regarding the funding of political parties? And in the context of local government, I ask whether we are guaranteed a level playing field in political competition. Will all our candidates be treated equally on the issue of funding? I mean the lists of political parties, the lists of electoral alliances and the individual candidates.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U35	Thank you very much. These are very important questions, and they are relatively difficult simply to argue and answer with conviction. The fact is that political support for public money does not treat political parties and other political actors in the same way. However, the reporting rules are similar. Is that unconstitutional? Rather, so far, the view remains that it is not. But it is possible to think about this once again as new arguments emerge. One thing that I have repeatedly emphasised and observed the current election campaign, I will also consider going back to the Supreme Court, before coming before the Riigikogu, of course, is an absolute ban on outdoor advertising without going back to those years when this ban was introduced. Apparently, members of the Riigikogu with a longer standing know why it was introduced and that this rhetoric presented to the public was not the real reason. Without going back there and digging down the hatchets at the time, it may be possible to rethink things. The fact is that the absolute ban on outdoor advertising in local elections means that an election union or an individual candidate, such as a local school teacher, is prohibited from placing a A4 page on the door of a bus waiting pavilion or local village store with its name, candidate number and main positions, such as local school organisation, roads, education of interest. In my opinion, this is an unconstitutional restriction. It is quite clear that the poorest and the local candidates cannot be known in the national media for access to it. Even if, by some miracle, they get into an election studio, they're obviously in a slightly different situation in that TV studio than you and I, who have been in front of the camera several times. I think we could at least review that. And there are more problems. So thank you very much for keeping and raising this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! As is well known, the government plans to transfer basic education as a whole to local governments, including the organisation of education for children with special needs, with an amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act. The Ministry confirms that schools for children with more complex special needs currently belonging to the state will not be closed, but already this year negotiations will be opened with the local authorities where the schools are located to hand them over to the local authorities. You have already referred to your position, but I wonder, however, how do you feel about ensuring education for children with special needs, including quality and accessibility, being the responsibility of the state or perhaps the responsibility of a single local government?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U37	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U38	Thank you very much. I really hope that the members of the Riigikogu will pay much attention to this issue. Special educational needs are, of course, different. I think that if enough pedagogical staff are available, teachers, assistant teachers, support specialists, then children with lighter special needs can certainly be taught in normal school classes. And I think the Riigikogu has wished for a situation where, if there is a child in one family who does not have a special need, and another child who has some easier special need, whether it has to do with eyesight, a small disorder of behaviour, hearing or some less moving limb, the school in his place of residence is exactly the same as that of a brother or sister, not the school of sick children. So these children with lighter special needs could certainly study at their near - home school with their siblings and close friends. Unfortunately, we also have children who are really very difficult with special needs. In my opinion, it is really worth analysing whether it is appropriate to teach such children with the local government's own costs and skills, or whether it is reasonable in a country like Estonia to collect skills and money and sometimes to provide them with the best possible environment away from home. It seems to me that this is the subject of political choice, but that is my position. And if they ask the Chancellor of Justice, the children's ombudsman, about it, that's the way they're going to answer and have been answered so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U39	Arthur Talvik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U40	Good Chairman! Thank you, Chancellor of Justice, for your work and your presentation. Your position on the law of two chairs is known: you say it is constitutional. But now we are in a situation where ministers who, by law, are not really allowed to participate in the work of the council as a minister, are still running for office. The Free Party thinks it's the voter's deceiving. And they're saying on the grounds that if they turn out to be elected, they're going to lead one city or another, mayor, without realizing that we're not picking heads of town. On the other hand, members of the Riigikogu apply in places where they do not actually live. You have mentioned that local people have to decide their own lives. How do you feel about these moves, do you think they're right?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U41	Thank you very much. I take a bad view of all hypocrisy and vasticity, but I think it's worth looking at it a little bit more nuanced. Firstly, the question of ministers. I very much hope that the voter is wise and that the one we have ministers is known. It is for the voter to decide whether he believes it when the minister says that he will become mayor if elected to the council, or not. Secondly, it is possible for the voter to decide how he will react when the minister is running alongside the minister's work. It's possible it's a scam, but it's possible it's not a scam. It is quite possible that one of the ministers intends to go back to their home, for example, out of Tallinn and go to work on the council, and if the council decides so, perhaps even as a city or rural municipality leader. So I would leave this issue to the voter. Now the question of whether the candidate is connected to the local community and whether he knows the local circumstances is, in my opinion, extremely serious too. The more nuanced question is that many of us have a summer home and a winter home or our own city home and, for example, our parents' home. And if a person actually knows two communities very well, I wouldn't ban him from running in another place. But it's important that local people know who that person is and know how to ask for it. And I myself very much hope that there will indeed be a candidate in their actual place of residence to decide on the public space that is familiar. For example, if you take the same situation in Tallinn, perhaps one part of the debate about public space that heats as much passion as the big questions, such as whether the seaside needs to be concreted or not, would be an election topic. That's one. And secondly, if these matters were to be decided by people who have more than once come to the sea by themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U42	Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you for this presentation. It was quite nice to hear it, especially the empty-handed part of lawmaking. I usually don't like people running into another house to complain about the troubles of their own house if they can't handle it. But since you have already talked here about democracy and our Thursday debate 'Dangers and challenges of democracy', which takes place in the Riigikogu as a debate on a crucial national issue, I am still asking because it seems to me that you have such a good democratic instinct. On the one hand, I will ask you more generally. Do you think it is possible to hold the debate as a monologue? Can the debate be held in such a way that questions cannot be asked? And does it look more like an opinion festival or a decision festival in that case? I'll ask you more legally. Does § 153 (2) of the Riigikogu Law on the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, which says that in the event of a discussion of a matter of major importance, the Bureau decides on the speakers, the duration of this debate and the time for submitting questions, also allow for a situation where questions are not given any time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U43	Eerik-Niles Kross, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U44	Thank you very much. The monologue, in my opinion, is not similar to the debate. That's one. Secondly, as far as the Rules of Procedure of the Riigikogu are concerned, this is a question of the Riigikogu's self-regulation. If I take off the hat of the Chancellor of Justice and the State Attorney, I would undoubtedly like it as a citizen if there were more exciting and immediate debates in this Chamber, where the differences of world views would come out more clearly and where people could also recognise themselves more clearly. And perhaps even more important, where they could see that a large number of people feel completely argumented and completely respectable, that is to say, in your performance in absolutely different ways. This is the centre of parliamentaryism and parliamentary Christian values. If the Riigikogu can improve its domestic and working order in these matters, it is in your hands. I don't think any other constitutional institution can give you much advice here, but thank you for asking!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U45	Ain Lutsepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U46	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Madam Chancellor, thank you for your report. The question concerns the quality of laws and draft laws. The Minister of Justice has spoken here, where he has emphasised too much of the laws that come to the Riigikogu and the need to improve their quality. You drew attention to the comprehension of laws and the use of words. What is your view on the quality of legislation in Estonia at this stage of time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U47	Thank you very much. In the review chapter 'Legislation', I have published these ideas in greater depth, and this situation does not make me very happy. I very much stress that Estonia has done great things with euro money and will continue to do great things. But according to my personal view, there are certainly other opinions with this money, which has gone to the so-called smart decision funds, to the development of legislation, to better lawmaking, etc., mostly harmed Estonia. The point is that there are totally unnecessary rewritten laws that work. Sometimes it is ridiculously written about the bill that it doesn't change anything, just the words and the numbers of the paragraphs have been changed. This means, however, that in practice administrative practice and case law change, new errors arise, training money has to be spent. In conclusion, the sum of the amount of damage to the Republic of Estonia is greater than the tens of thousands that pocketed the workers who did this unnecessary work and hopefully put it into circulation for the benefit of the Estonian economy. So, in this regard, the situation is really rather harsh. But I started with the answer that a few years ago, the so-called codification process was launched, which is to rewrite all laws simply in terms of beauty and making money. And for it to be totally funny, the deregulation process has now been launched to rewrite everything the same way over again, and once again, the money will be paid seriously! All these objectives, whether there should be fewer or more laws, are incompatible with the Constitution. We can't read the number of laws. It is up to the Riigikogu to decide which standards are together and which rules are separate. The question is whether a new norm is needed or not. And if it isn't, it's worth not doing. If he is needed, he should act alone, make clear how his fulfillment should change his life, and then set that standard. And if he really changes life in the way he wants, then everything will be fine, whether he's the norm of a thousand or ten thousand this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U48	Andrei Novikov.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U49	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honor, Chancellor! At the Riigikogu there is the Political Financing Supervisory Commission, where your representative is also present. At the end of August this year, media publications reflected the results of the audit of the Estonian National Museum on a very large scale. In an extremely negative light, the audit also mentioned the person representing you in the Political Financing Monitoring Committee. Your representative was involved in dubious schemes, which the audit called a serious reputational risk. In this light, have you considered the suitability of your representative to continue in the monitoring committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U50	Thank you for your question. When these doubts arose, we naturally asked for explanations. And after hearing these explanations, I think that Kaarel Tarand can continue as a member of the Political Financing Monitoring Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U51	Monika Haukanõmm.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U52	Thank you, Mr President. Your Honor, Chancellor! You have raised very important issues, and even one of the most important things I consider to be the issue of the dignity of the end of life, which society is often not yet ready to talk about with open maps. One way to live your life with dignity is to do it in a general care home, which is one of the services of the local government. You have repeatedly made inspection visits to general care homes, and as a result you have also discovered irregularities and distributed a circular, where you refer to eight very important issues that must be dealt with. My question is that, according to the Social Welfare Act, the Minister should lay down a regulation and specify the requirements if necessary. Does it seem to you that the Minister should specify the requirements for all people to have the same quality, regardless of where and in which nursing home the person is staying?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U53	Thank you very much. I ask you, from this angle, to respond to the counsellors who are aware of this in detail. All I can say now is that the fact is that living arrangements in nursing homes must comply with the conditions of human dignity, the Constitution and laws of Estonia, also with international obligations and, in fact, with the most important of our own conscience and debt to our older generations. There are different ways to achieve this. But one thing is clear: better-educated, better-trained, more committed and not so overworked carers are certainly needed there. There are actually many other models to improve living conditions in nursing homes. So I apologise for not being able to respond immediately, one to one, on the issue of the minister's regulation, but I believe that the councillors know how to give a better answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U54	Barbi Cloud.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U55	Thank you for your interesting presentation. I have a question about the succession law, which introduced the opt-out system in Estonia in 2009. As a result, there have been many cases where people who are not really interested in this inheritance automatically become heirs. At the same time, there are people in these families who would be interested in the inheritance and its use. At the same time, there are people who, for example, live abroad and who are difficult to reach even through a notary. There's a lot of cases like this. For example, there are a great many relatives in Russia whose inheritance is here, but who are not really interested in it, and the family that uses it is facing problems. Does that make sense to you?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U56	Thank you very much. When the succession procedure was changed, i.e. transferred from one system to another, there was a great deal of dispute among the legal researchers, and the conclusion was that both systems have equal pros and cons. I myself would consider the reversal of the system as an important example of a series of unnecessary replacement activities. The fact is, it's gone this way, that one system with plus and minus was replaced by another that has the same number of cons and the same number of pros. They simply do not overlap, that is the difference between these systems, but neither can be considered significantly better than the other. It was a political choice at the time. Now we are in this situation and it may not be wise to reverse it again, but this decision is in your hands.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U57	Tarmo Kruusimäe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U58	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good Chancellor of Justice, thank you for a good, meaningful overview! My question concerns the Members of the European Parliament and their candidacy in the municipal elections. We know that all Members of the European Parliament have the right to apply, but even when the mandate of the European Parliament is over, they do not have the legal right to return to work in the local government. Should we reconsider the respective electoral law of the Republic, or should the European Parliament's exit paper be given together with the application? Obviously, we understand that this is not happening, that no one would exchange the mandate of the European Parliament's ambassador for the mandate of the local government ambassador, because this compensation and this salary, which is in the European Parliament, are many times higher. But I'm, of course, optimistic that maybe someone will come and do it.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U59	Thank you very much. I am afraid that this response is quite in the same line as the response given to ministers. I would trust the voter here, and it is important that the voter knows who he chooses and where he chooses. If the law needs to be corrected, it is certainly possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U60	Thank you. Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You have proved very well that one government or Riigikogu must not write tax rates as a schedule to the next or deprive the successors of the right to make a policy. But don't you think a much stronger analogy will emerge on the subject of the budget? Do you think that if one government and the Riigikogu force their descendants to cut their budgets in bad times while living in bad times, taking into account the receipts of euro money and the likely economic cycle, they are better in line with the Constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U61	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U62	Thank you very much. However, these decisions, in the hands of the Constitution, cannot be challenged. However, Mr Near's question provides a very good basis for pointing out another important trend in the same area. Long-term planning is undoubtedly reasonable, but if it grows into a situation where officials state that one or the other law cannot be amended or passed, because it is not written in the state budget strategy, the powers and constitutional role of the Riigikogu are certainly unconstitutionally limited. But the question of whether and how to keep reserves, how to spend them, how to plan spending and how optimistic or pessimistic to be in your economic forecasts is, unfortunately, a typical political issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U63	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U64	Thank you. The Institute of Social Studies recently found that several political parties are using the position of their government and ministers to spread their political goals and agenda for taxpayers and state money. This is particularly true of the Sotsi-led Ministry of Social Affairs, which has directed millions to several NGOs (e.g. the LGBT Association, Estonian Human Rights Centre, NGO Oma Tuuba, Feministeerium) who are implementing the goals of the state and taxpayers' money. It is noteworthy that there is almost no private donation to these NGOs. However, not a cent is directed at the representatives of another worldview to support traditional values, family values. What kind of assessment do you make of this implementation of your political agenda for taxpayers' money?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U65	Thank you very much. If I answered that question, the Auditor General would be upset about his rejection of the answer. So, unfortunately, I have to keep that answer to myself.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U66	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U67	Thank you. That's the question. We expect there to be a political consensus (perhaps not complete) in the Estonian parliament and political parties on the urgent need to reduce corruption in local governments, taking into account the so-called working cycles: Riigikogu formations are changing, elections and possible government coalitions. If there were such a political will, how could the fastest and most rational way be to achieve a transition from, in fact, the deplorable rule of corruption to some other, at least to prevent corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U68	Thank you very much. That's a good question. I really hope that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will do this in the near future. As has been said, if our department has any knowledge and skills that you need from Estonia and the rest of the world, we will be happy to share them. I think that there are people in Estonia who can offer reasonable and good models. It is quite simple, or at least relatively easy, to prohibit the employment of corruption in the case of decisions on the rights and property of people. However, there are also more complex problems, such as the identification of conflicts of interest. We have one very reasonable Supreme Court decision that says that the current rule is one way too narrow, the other way too wide. It is important that a member of the local council does not fall into conflicting roles, a role where there is a completely justified suspicion. For example, if the Chairman of the Council is himself the manager of an important local company, who is essentially appointed by the municipality manager, the mayor or the mayor, who in turn is indirectly appointed by the chairman of the local council, at least in the public eye. Such a situation is likely to be avoided. At the same time, any single and nuanced ban should not exclude a situation where, for example, a teacher or an asylum social adviser participates in the work of the council. On the contrary, the place of these people, when they turn out to be elected, is on the council when the community has decided so. So, for example, considering the existence or absence of a conflict of interest is much more nuanced and it is more difficult to formulate a corresponding rule. And it is much more difficult to change culture and knowledge so that, on the one hand, people would be ashamed to waste and steal and, on the other hand, they would not be forgiven.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U69	Andres Ammas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U70	Honourable President! Honorable Chancellor of Justice! You mentioned administrative reform as one of the most important issues in the reporting period. One part of this is the right to self-determination of villages, which you and your department have dealt with. Would you please summarise the results of this action: what has succeeded and what needs to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U71	Thank you very much. That would be a very long and detailed story. I recall that you presented a very grateful question, which we replied to at the time. I don't have any specific village names and cases with me, so with your kind permission, I'll ask my colleagues to send it to you. I'm not going to improvise here right now, because I think some village names are going to go wrong, and that would be an unnecessary tension that I don't want to cause at all.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U72	Dear waitress, thank you very much. No further questions for you. I'm opening negotiations. Kalle Laane.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U73	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good Chancellor of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Riigikogu! The Chancellor of Justice gave us an annual review of his activities between September 2016 and August 2017. Work and topics have been numerous this year, from administrative reform to government activities. Unfortunately, not all government decisions can be approved, and the Chancellor of Justice has also spoken at such moments. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for the work he has done. There are many things in this annual review that can only be accepted and set as an example. In some cases these ideas could also be developed further. I will address the address of the Chancellor of Justice to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs regarding the initiation of a legislative amendment to contain and prevent corruption in our municipalities and cities. The local level is the closest and most perceived to our people. It makes perfect sense that the local government is insisting on the damage caused to it by the corrupt official of the same municipality. However, as the Chancellor of Justice pointed out in his review, in some cases the affected municipality has abandoned it. According to the current rules, only the local government can recover the damage itself. And if this is not done, there will be doubts, because it goes against the public interest and, of course, against the sense of justice of the people. The guilty person must compensate for the damage caused. One possible legal structure would be that the prosecutor, together with the prosecution, would immediately bring a civil action and, if the local authority so wished, would be able to participate in the civil process as a third party. Public money is for the well-being of all residents, and it must not be taken lightly when it is used. Another thing that can only be accepted is the prohibition of working in the local government with a valid sentence. The Civil Service Act precludes the commission or service of a person who has been convicted of a criminal offence committed intentionally. The Chancellor of Justice was a good example of how some people go past it by concluding a contract of employment with a person to circumvent the restrictions. The Chancellor of Justice pointed out that the person convicted of taking possession of the property of the municipality was not charged with damage, but was recruited as a political adviser. This is an absurd situation! In order to avoid such situations, the Chancellor of Justice's proposal is appropriate, but we will go one step further from here. In the future, we would like to see persons who have been punished for certain crimes not to be able to apply for local government councils during the period of validity of the sentence. It does not make sense to let a person enter the local authority if, for example, he has stolen from the same municipality. Such cases have inevitably occurred throughout Estonia. This is a social discussion place, whether and how to improve it. The idea has come out, and all you can do is move on. The third topic I will address is the capacity of the local government councils' audit committees. At the moment, this depends primarily on the money provided by the coalition and it needs to be seriously reviewed on how the capacity of audit committees can be enhanced. Finally. The Chancellor of Justice gives confidence in his actions that the laws in force in Estonia are compatible with the Constitution. Estonia's constitutional supervision is in good hands. Based on the proposals put forward by the Chancellor of Justice and going a little further with them in some cases, we can shape Estonia with an ever better legal space and legal certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U74	Artur Talvik on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U75	Good President! Good Chancellor of Justice! On behalf of the Free Party Group, I would like to warmly thank the Chancellor of Justice for the work he has done and also for the speech he has just made here. It is the job of the Chancellor of Justice to be the guardian of the Constitution. But in our opinion, one very important thing that the Office of the Chancellor of Justice, headed by Ülle Madise, is that he tries not only to monitor constitutionality but also to change political culture in Estonia, and, as it was clear from the answers to questions before, to pay attention to culture in general, how it would be possible to manage Estonia better, how things could be organised well in Estonia. In my speech, I only want to make one point, i.e. local life. Local elections are coming, and the Free Party has taken an extraordinary step towards paying attention to this local organisation and election. Indeed, we are not participating in the elections as a political party, but we are calling on our members to stand as candidates in the electoral alliances, representing their communities there in particular. In order to put the emphasis on local life, I want to read some of the passages in the report or review here, because they are particularly important for me and also for the Free Party in general. We have had a lot of criticism in society that local governments have become like central government accounting departments, where the decision-making and, for example, the decision-making of money are very limited, and this is not something that the central authority wants to change very much. The Chancellor of Justice recalls that the local government is not a local extension of the government or ministries of the Republic. The idea of local government is to solve local life issues by decision of the local community and in a way that suits this city or rural municipality. Local life is best managed by the local population itself. The state must be a supporter here and things must be arranged in such a way that the local government has the money to promote local life. The local government and state wallets are separate. This is something that needs to be remembered day by day, and it would be worth recalling further before the local elections. I'm asking for an extension!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U76	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U77	That's another thing. On the one hand, the Office of the Chancellor of Justice finds that the law on the two chairs is constitutional. Indeed, it is. On the other hand, we Free Party very much like the way in which Ülle Madise's presentation focused on hypocrisy and the tricks that are being done under this law. He stressed that local people and Riigikogu ambassadors who are not involved in certain places must really decide on local life, but are running there as "party soldiers," should not do so. The voter should be reminded of this, and Ülle Madise was very well reminded of it. Another thing that we have encountered, and which once again proves that the central offices of the parties would also like to control the lives of local governments, is that the members of many parties who have decided to run for election alliances are being expelled from the political parties instead. It's an interesting tendency or proof of certain things. The Chancellor of Justice has also written about this and said that neither the Local Government Council Election Act, the Political Party Act nor the Law on Non-profit Associations preclude the membership of political party members from being included in the electoral alliance or from standing on its list. The issues of local life that are the subject of a debate in the council elections are generally not dealt with narrowly by party ideology. The application of party members on the electoral union list is widespread in the elections to the council. It is the restriction or prohibition of this right that could go against the Constitution. The next point I want to talk about is the administrative reform. Here, too, it is interesting that the municipalities that turned to the Chancellor of Justice received the answer that one or the other move is constitutional, but the call for such a political culture comes from the Chancellor of Justice with a slightly different shade. I also read it out: 'The Constitution says that local government units must not be merged arbitrarily, but must serve a constitutional purpose. The decree of the Government of the Republic, which is compulsory to connect one local government unit to another, constitutes a forward-looking forecast decision. ' In fact, I would like to ask here what is the constitutional purpose of the decisions made by the Government of the Republic. For example, if they make an exception for Loksa but refuse to merge Rakke and Koerut, the constitutional objective of why one or the other decision is made remains unclear. I'd like to take a long look at the ban on outdoor advertising, but I'm running out of time. It can be said that we have worked well with the Free Party and the Chancellor of Justice. The Free Party has also tabled one draft, one option to have a debate on whether to restrict outdoor advertising at all or how to do so, what campaign restrictions should be and how to make more meaningful election campaigns where money does not decide everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U78	Peeter Ernits on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U79	Good President, Chancellor and colleagues! I think the report is excellent, long and thought-provoking. I want to talk about some lonely problems. First of all, the covert surveillance of people. The question is how legitimate it is to listen to phone calls and conversations secretly and to monitor people's correspondence. The Chancellor of Justice has checked the Department of Defence Police and Information and made a number of proposals on permits and information for the person. There is a suspicion that security authorities will not inform people in time or not be informed. Is there really a basis for non-notification? It was not clear from the information files examined that the failure to notify would be justified in substance on each occasion. Both agencies, both the Defence Police Department and the Information Board, have decided that their instructions should be supplemented, and they have taken steps to do so. That's positive. Secondly, a seemingly constructive change in accommodation facilities should, according to the Tourism Act, begin to electronically reflect the people who are staying there. The new method of data collection is as reasonable as it allows for improved security and the exchange of information across borders. But once the data has been collected, there will be many opportunities and temptations to use them elsewhere. On the one hand, the electronicisation of databases of hotel visitors, for example, could lead to violations of fundamental rights on the other hand if these data are subsequently used. The third thing that excites me and us is the problem of dignified ageing. For example, if a 76-year-old pensioner wants to apply for a credit card because the old age, and the big bank says no, you're too old. The Chancellor of Justice intervened to resolve this situation. Indeed, age is not the main measure of assessing a person's financial discipline. Another example. We know that older people, 75-105-year-olds, are among the most eager e-choices, this group is much larger than that of the 26-year-olds. But Statistics Estonia, for example, is only interested in using the Internet for people up to 74 years of age. Those over the age of 74 do not need to know how they use the Internet. In fact, they also drop out of many other polls. Or how do the 12,000 people who must be in nursing homes at the end of their lives live, how are their rights protected? They are often quite helpless, unable to cope without outside aid and thus become well-vulnerable, thus increasing the risk of abuse. For example, there is a lack of privacy in toilet or hygiene procedures. More speaking time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U80	Please, three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U81	It inevitably diminishes people's faith in the rule of law. Last year, the Chancellor of Justice drew attention to eight such problems. Last of all, the legislation we're all working on here. The Chancellor of Justice acknowledges that in the last ten years, the Estonian legal order has suffered a great deal of damage. To put it figuratively, we've been working over the hull with a cut-off, me and all of you here. This has caused inflammation in the body, and although some abscesses have been removed, most of the things that need urgent intervention have not been done. In the House of Judges, it was quite harshly stated that we have excessive, poor quality and, at times, collective legislation. They are not wanted or considered necessary, says the Chancellor of Justice. And what is very important is that the executive is trying to take on the substantive decision-making power. As the Chancellor of Justice states exactly, all power is, in fact, narrowly concentrated in the hands of the Ministry of Finance, and the Riigikogu, i.e. our role remains only to knock out the advance. This, of course, cannot be accepted. I would like to congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for his active intervention, such as his appeal to the Supreme Court to ensure legal certainty, in particular legitimate expectations. We can be sure that the laws adopted also comply with the Constitution. For example, this year the Supreme Court assessed the constitutionality of the points of the Income Tax Act, the Social Tax Act and other amendments to the Act concerning the raising of alcohol excise duties. The Supreme Court's view was that the legislator must have the opportunity to change tax rates in the light of economic and social circumstances. The College also noted that it was the duty of the state to protect public health. As alcohol is one of the major health determinants, restrictions on alcohol production, sales and consumption are undoubtedly necessary. So there are actually a lot of acute problems. The question is how we can act here so that we do not deal with cosmetic surgery over the hull, as the Chancellor of Justice has said quite harshly about us and legislation at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U82	The opinion of the Social Democratic Party Group is made public by Liisa Oviir. Please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U83	President-in-Office of the Council. Your Honor, Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the opportunity to be involved in such discussions and to think along is intellectually interesting and certainly one of the great advantages of our work. On behalf of the Group, I thank the Chancellor of Justice for the annual review. I believe that I am not the only one in our group who has been thoroughly deepening the Chancellor of Justice's website for several days now. Due to limited time resources, I would like to mark two major issues in particular from the speech of the Chancellor of Justice. I would like to speak on two major issues. One is the separation of powers, and the other is human dignity throughout life. First of all, I congratulate the Chancellor of Justice for taking the initiative to seek clarity in situations which are politically polarising, but also legally ambiguous. Of course, I am thinking above all, but not only, of the topic 'Acts and legitimate expectations'. You don't play with taxes, it's true. There is no way to play, including the right to impose a tax ladder in advance for long years. It is also tax-playing, because it deprives future governments, those responsible for government, of the right to make their world-view choices. This means that one government will become a hostage to previous governments. After all, the most important thing in this dispute is not necessarily the one who was finally right, who was the winner or who was the loser, but the fact that the democratic path of separation of powers was the government, the Riigikogu, the Chancellor of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court, was ensured such a necessary peace and clarity as to how things are and how they are right. The second aspect of the same subject, once again linked to the separation of powers, is the question of the Constitutional Court marked by the Chancellor of Justice. According to the Constitution, Estonia is managed by the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu, the government, the President, the courts, as well as the Chancellor of Justice and the Auditor General are set to complement each other, to control each other and, if necessary, to limit each other. It is necessary to ensure that power and right are not concentrated in the hands of one group. In this way it is possible to ensure the constitutionality of decisions that guide Estonia's life, but in fact also the sustainability of democratic government. It is important to note here that the state budget is, however, adopted by Parliament. I know that there are excellent experts in the Ministry of Finance, but the responsibility for such truly important issues and decisions rests with the Riigikogu, which has passed the democratic electoral process and has received a mandate from there. A deviation from the balance of powers may seem tempting at one point in time, but history in Estonia and elsewhere has clearly shown that this is not a path where we would like to walk or where we could afford to walk. The same issues referred to by the Constitutional Court show this very well when you look at the practice, the situation that has now developed and is evolving in another European Union country. Of course, constitutional courts tend to politicise. But even more importantly, for me, this would mean the formation of the Upper House, which did not receive a mandate for Parliament in a referendum. No law will become a law until the judges decide so. However, Estonia is a parliamentary state and the power of the Riigikogu must not be restricted by the executive power, the court or any other institution. The second issue I want to mark is safety and the quality of life throughout the human life cycle. This is an issue that is important in a legal but equally valuable way. Creating a change in this situation in society requires a certain shift in society's beliefs or, to quote the Chancellor of Justice, a change in culture and perception. The Chancellor of Justice raised the issue of dignity at the end of the life cycle, just as human dignity at the beginning of the life cycle is, of course, equally important at all stages when man is inevitably the most vulnerable. The fact that the Chancellor of Justice has taken to heart the dignity of ageing is extremely important. Thank you so much for that. In cooperation with the Chancellor of Justice, a special number of Juridica Abstract magazine has been published, which has already been stopped here and is discussing the issues of the end of life arrangement. I've been through this special number, I haven't had time to go through it. I believe it is a good helper for every member of the Riigikogu to make political decisions, but equally to educate himself. We are inevitably an ageing society and therefore have to make important decisions at national level. In fact, it can be said that this particular magazine is worth reading to every resident of Estonia. It is good to note that our elderly have taken the initiative. On 16 March, the Riigikogu started its activities in Estonia, and this week the Board of the Riigikogu adopted a procedure and directed their first proposal to establish care insurance for the discussion of the Social Affairs Committee. Thank you to the elderly for taking the initiative, too, has shown the way in which these things can really be changed and, above all, improved! But even at the beginning of life, dignity and security are as important as in the last half of life. It is very sad to read these figures, that if the average number of single parents in European Union households is 4%, the percentage in Estonia is more than 20, while 34% of their children are at risk of poverty. According to the Chancellor of Justice's report, 11000 children are not paid for by another parent. The amount not paid exceeds 52 million in total and only 1/3 of the cases are paid regularly. An equally important problem is that the active and regular participation of another parent in the child's life is limited to a tenth of single - parent children. These are issues that are very important and which the Riigikogu and the government must deal with together, take the initiative to give every Estonian child the opportunity to grow in a secure environment, ensuring the quality of his life. I would like to thank the Chancellor of Justice for these issues, but also for all the other issues raised in his presentation. And I believe that we will act, we will find solutions to these issues in good cooperation, as we have so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U84	Mr Pomerants on behalf of the IRL Group. Five or eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U85	Good President! Honourable hall! I also have such a dual role as Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. But important matters of state life want to be discussed, I'll limit myself to five minutes. I think that today's quote is well born, although the portals have not yet hit it: 'The constitutional idea of Estonia is to be Estonia. ' I think it's very nicely said. And I would like to emphasise once again that the Estonian Constitution is 25 years old, and on 28 June we celebrated it with dignity. The Estonian Public Broadcasting did not catch it: he still invited Olga Ivanova to the studio to resolve the issues of the day, did not invite Ülle Madis or Jüri Adamist, I hope today will be different. And I think this movie is also very thoughtful, some of you have seen it. The Chancellor of Justice spoke very much today about the existence of political choices and constitutional policies, but also about the constitution itself was a very interesting set of political choices. Now for today's report. It's also nice for the IRL people to react, to make sure they're right. Control is certainly good, and I think this example of raising excise duties is, in a positive way, remarkable. My life has given me the opportunity to participate in the work of various organisations this year, one being the Government of the Republic and the other is the Riigikogu. And I can also say for my part that, as far as the administrative reform is concerned, the preventive remarks of the Chancellor of Justice were very helpful in the work of the government. I think it is educational for all of us who, as members of the Riigikogu, are standing in the municipal elections this autumn to be familiar with the issues of local life, the situation of our local government services. I can narrately tell the voters that, in my case, there is no need to hold back from choosing with courage. But now to the question of whether someone is a summer local or a winter local and whether he knows anything about the local life. A question of control might be whether summer people know what the name is, for example, the tractorist who drives snow in those winters. Corruption in local governments. Kalle Laane has already made a rousing speech here that what wants regulation and what does not and what to do with this proposal by the Chancellor of Justice at all. I can say that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs will start this debate as soon as it goes well next week. Let's see what our options are. I intend to withdraw power to the Riigikogu. And the Committee on Constitutional Affairs itself is also preparing the legislative changes that we can agree on. To the officials who are watching this debate today, I would like to say that I would also recommend that you be bold and look at the ways in which something can be done. Of course, within the limits of the law, because if you get into trouble with the law, the law of corruption that has not yet been prepared can be fatal to you. And with my colleagues from the two groups, I would like to talk about a debate on a matter of national importance, which is not directly related to the Chancellor of Justice's report, but this issue was raised here today. Perhaps it is not really a matter of life or such an important question of whether it is possible to have a debate with the waitress. Importantly, I think it is far more important than the quality of the group that brings the point to the Chamber can offer it to others. I think there's been a problem. And as the last reaction to the Chancellor of Justice's presentation today, I want to say that regulating the road is not the devil in itself. It's inevitable, and I think it's good. This is good for the people of Estonia. Have a nice day at work.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U86	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. I will also close the debate on the first item.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U87	The second item is the first reading of § 76 of the Act on Supplementing Medicinal Products, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I ask Monika Haukanõmme, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, to wait for the chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U88	Mr President! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On 13 June the Social Committee of the Riigikogu initiated a draft Supplementary Act to § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act. The draft complements § 76 61 of the Pharmaceutical Act, according to which the Agency has the right to withdraw marketing authorisations for certain medicinal products if the medicinal product has not been available for three consecutive years from the marketing authorisation holder in Estonia, except in such cases where it is not reasonable to do so in the interest of public health. The development of this draft is due to the need to ensure the continuity of access to medicines for Estonian patients. It can also be said that this is an essential measure to influence marketing authorisation holders in practice to place on the market their authorised medicinal products. Without such a provision, the State does not have the possibility to withdraw marketing authorisations and allow another interested seller to start providing the service. The amendment is also important for the reason that two directives need to be transposed. One of them dates back to 2001, 83/EC and has been amended by Directive 2009 which bears the number number number 53/EC. These directives state that any authorisation which is not followed by the actual placing on the market of a medicinal product authorised within three years in the Member State which has granted the authorisation shall cease to be valid. This provision had entered into force in 2011 but was not included in the 2016 Act. That is why it is necessary to include a so-called repeal measure in the law. Adding this provision would help to improve the effective marketing of authorised medicinal products in Estonia, taking into account previous practice. Marketing Authorisation Holders would also be motivated to place medicinal products on the market, knowing that if this is not done within three years, the Agency may withdraw the marketing authorisation granted. The Agency has confirmed that they do not use this provision maliciously. In each particular case, where no medicinal product has actually been placed on the market, they have identified why this has not been done and whether the marketing authorisation holder intends to place the medicinal product on the market at any time. Of course, if this is planned, there will be no rush to withdraw the marketing authorisation. Similarly, the Agency has confirmed that it motivates marketing authorisation holders to enter the Estonian market with their medicinal product. Very briefly, and for your information, I will also tell you a little bit about the marketing authorisations. In fact, we have three ways in which medicines can be placed on the market. It really depends on whether a certain medicine is to be marketed across Europe or only in Estonia. The procedures may be as follows: First of all, the central procedure, which means that the application is submitted to the European Medicines Agency and the period for processing the application is approximately 210 days. In such cases it may be marketed in all Member States. Secondly, there is a decentralised marketing authorisation procedure for which an application is submitted to one or more EU countries at once and the procedure is of the same duration, for approximately 210 days. Thirdly, there is the national procedure that we are talking about today. An application for a marketing authorisation shall be submitted to the national Agency for Medicinal Products. In this case, for example, the marketing authorisation is requested only in Estonia. The marketing authorisation of a medicinal product is usually valid for five years, so that it is not necessary to enter the market immediately from the same point of view, but has been given a pretty long period. How many marketing authorisations there are in Estonia would be a legitimate question. As of 2016, 6284 marketing authorisations had been granted in Estonia, of which 2422 were "central' or "European'. One of the objectives of this draft, as I have already mentioned, is to ensure that medicines are available. In 2016, the World Health Organisation carried out an analysis of how many marketing authorisations are not available. This conclusion was reached that in the last three years only 26% of medicinal products authorised through the central system of the European Union have reached Estonia, 40% of those authorised through the decentralised system, and, of course, 90% of those authorised from the local system had, obviously, reached the market most. This suggests that 10% of the cases have been applied for but that the medicinal product has not been placed on the market for a period of time. The Social Affairs Committee also asked the Government of the Republic for an opinion on the draft initiated. On 13 July 2017, the Government adopted a supporting decision and approved the draft initiated by the Commission. On 18 September, the Commission also sent a letter to the Agency and the Pharmaceutical Industry Association, from which we expect feedback and a position by 29 September, in order to request an opinion on the draft. The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft Act on Supplementation to § 76 of the Pharmaceutical Act 481 at its meeting on 12 September, to which Helen Berk, Adviser to the Pharmaceutical Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, had also been invited. One view was reached that the bill was mature and ready to go to the big hall. On this basis, four procedural decisions have also been taken, which I am presenting here: the proposal to put the draft on the plenary agenda today (consensus), to propose that the first reading be closed (consensually), to set the deadline for the amendments at 10 working days, or 3 October 2017 at 5.15 p.m. (consensually) and to appoint Monika Haukanõm, Vice-President of the Commission as rapporteur (consensually). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U89	I'm opening a round of questions. Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U90	Dear Commission waitress, This was a very thorough presentation, but I did have one question in listening to you. If an economic operator or any of them obtains a marketing authorisation, why does it not come to the Estonian market with these medicines? We have heard that some consider the Estonian market too small. However, could there be a reason that this medicinal product is still at some stage of development, i.e. it has not yet been approved and maybe it has been granted a marketing authorisation? Explain a little about why such a period occurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U91	Thank you for this question, which is very legitimate. It is often true that the placing of medicines on the market depends on the size of the country and the level of economic interest. As pharmaceutical manufacturers themselves say, applying for a marketing authorisation is often linked to the size of the market. This concerns, in particular, centralised pan-European marketing authorisations. But it is also logical that more marketing authorisation applicants go to larger markets and less to smaller ones is also illustrated by the fact that only 10% of medicines are not available in Estonia. Sometimes this marketing authorisation is also applied for in order to prevent a competitor from entering the market. Or they think we're going to apply for it, just in case, and see how things turn out. But, as we know, in a very large number of cases, the inclusion of a preferential medicine is also sought. However, this procedure may not be as successful as expected, and perhaps the price will not be appropriate as a result of negotiations. So there are a number of reasons why medicines do not reach the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U92	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You mentioned in your report that everything in the previous version was as if there were everything, but now, in 2016, some were left out. How could this happen? Could this not mean the opposite of these licences and, in fact, the availability of medicines may not improve, but rather deteriorate?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U94	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, I did not come up with this idea in committee to clarify why it was excluded from the interim version. So I don't know exactly what to say. Apparently, it was just a human mistake, and it happened by accident, as we sometimes do. Question two. Did I get it right that the marketing authorisation system and the withdrawal of authorisation could make the availability of medicines worse? I do not believe that this leads to a loss of availability because the MAH is aware that if it does not bring the medicine on the market within three years, this authorisation may be withdrawn. This is rather, I think, motivating, because he knows that if, for example, a competing pharmaceutical manufacturer has a similar product, it could itself take on a certain market share. Rather, I still think it doesn't worsen the situation. But that's my personal opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U95	Dear waitress, there are no further questions for you. Thank you! I will open negotiations for representatives of the political groups. That's not what you want. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 481. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 481 amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 3 October.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U96	Today's third item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on the Election of Local Government Council, initiated by the Group of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia. Martin Helme, member of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U97	Dear Deputy Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law initiated by the Conservative People's Party, which is in itself very short, concerns § 5 (2) and § 57 (2) and § 571 (2) of the Local Government Council Election Act, which essentially repeats the same § 5 (2). One provision stating that the right to vote in local elections is not the right to stand as a candidate, but the right to vote for all people residing in Estonia. In our view, the right to vote should be restricted to citizenship. The situation in which a permanent resident can be chosen is very rare. Such regulation is not common either in Europe or in the rest of the world. And even if it had spread elsewhere, I think we should look at how countries have behaved in the same way as ours in their history and demographic situation. Above all, we could look at Latvia. In Latvia, at the end of the Soviet occupation, the proportion of the population of foreign origin or, let's say, the number of people brought to the country during the Soviet occupation was even higher than in Estonia: it was about half the population, about 40% of the population in Estonia. Latvia has exactly the order we want to introduce: only citizens have the right to vote in local elections. In Estonia, the situation has not been as mild as it is today. During the re-nationalisation, the Constitutional Assembly debated a great deal on the subject and agreed on two different approaches: the election of the Riigikogu is subject to a clear and strict right to vote and stand as a candidate, while the right to stand as a candidate in local elections is open to citizens, but the right to vote also applies to permanent residents. An important nuance is that both the text of the Constitutional Assembly and the text of the Constitution state locality: the length of permanent residence has been measured in the case of a permanent resident. In the past, Estonia has been restricted for five years: you had to have been on the register of residents of one municipality for at least five years before the elections, then you had the right to choose there. There's nothing like that right now. Currently, in Estonia, everyone who is on the local government register as of August of the elections can vote in principle. Thus, in principle, any person who legally stays in Estonia can be chosen. And there's a lot of people. To put these basic figures in the background, there are 110000 people entitled to vote in local elections, namely 1102000. Of these, Estonia has 919000 citizens. There are 71000 people of undefined nationality, among whom the "grey passport" holders are the absolute majority, i.e. the people who remained here during the Soviet occupation. There are 28000 people from EU countries, including 1,100 British citizens. And citizens from other countries who can vote in Estonia are 83000, of which 77000 are Russian citizens. I would, however, like to emphasise separately what is the political message of the whole draft. 77000 Russian citizens and 71000 citizens of the former Soviet Union who do not have citizenship defined participate in the elections of the Estonian state. This may have seemed a necessary or inevitable compromise between 1990 and 1991, but 25 years later, this situation is not normal. That shows two things. This shows, first of all, that the citizens of a foreign country that is hostile to us are actively involved in Estonian politics. We do not consider it normal, necessary or justified. I also point out that the Russian citizens here, when they participate in the Russian elections, are overwhelmingly voting in favour of Putin. The proportion of such people is much higher than the proportion of Russian citizens living in Russia who vote for the Kremlin's political forces, or Putin. They are Putin-minded, i.e. logically, essentially anti-Estonian. The same is true with people of undefined nationality whose turnout, indeed, is low. They cannot vote in Russia's elections, but we have no reason to believe that they are more loyal to Estonia than Estonian citizens with Russian citizenship. On this basis, the draft aims to encourage people with undefined citizenship here either to choose Estonian citizenship, to naturalise themselves and to make the Estonian language and citizenship, or to choose Russian or other national citizenship. For 25 years we have been enabling a 'temporary' solution in the form of grey passports. This temporary solution is now very long with a beard. If we do not create any additional incentives to integrate these people into Estonian society, this solution will only come when the last of these people have died of old age once. This, I think, is not the ideal solution either. So, first of all, we want to motivate non-citizens here to choose their nationality. Whether they choose the citizenship of Estonia or of any other country, in particular the citizenship of a former Soviet republic, there is no difference. The important thing is that a person chooses a clear side. We want them to choose Estonia, we want to give them this motivation. This would certainly help to spread the Estonian language skills of non-Estonians and eliminate a large number of voters who are essentially hostile to Estonia in the Estonian elections. I stress once again: in our eyes, people with Russian passports who choose Putin in Estonia are not loyal to the Estonian state by their very nature. We do not think that they should be able to participate in elections in Estonia. Here's another important nuance. In Estonia, as we know, the President is practically elected by the electoral body. The electoral body, however, is largely made up of representatives of local government councils. If we now look at how local governments elect their representatives to the elections, and we realise that there are several large municipalities with a very large percentage of the electorate being non-citizens, then basically, according to the current procedure, non-citizens are also taking part in the elections to the Estonian President. This is not in line with the values and principles of our constitution. If we clearly and strictly limit the right to vote to the elections of the Riigikogu, then the election of the President will once again be stricter: the right to vote is for members of the Riigikogu and only if the Riigikogu does not elect the President, then the ambassadors of local government councils who, by the way, must be Estonian citizens. It is also a nuance to be made aware of. Of course, our party would like the President to be elected at all by the people to be directly elected by the Head of State, but if there is a system like this now, we will see here the problem that non-citizens are also indirectly taking part in the presidential elections. And one more thing to think about. We are living in an age when Europe is suffering from a migration crisis. We are talking here about local elections, and I am sure that this issue will be seen in particular in the context of what happens to the Russians or how we treat the Russians. But if we look forward a few decades, the problem isn't the Russians here. The problem is for immigrants from farther away, who also lack the motivation for naturalisation, learning the Estonian language and making a citizenship text for this reason. They can participate in Estonia's political life because we do not make any demands or conditions for them. This is a very worrying perspective. That's all for me. If anyone has any questions, I'd be happy to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U98	Andres Herkel and Heimar Leng have questions. Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Martin! You are one such master of simple solutions here: let's turn back the things that have been going on for 25 years. But let's start in the meantime and see what happened ten years ago. You pointed out that ten years ago, a restriction was removed in this hall. This was a requirement of at least five years of residence in Estonia for persons who were not citizens of the Republic of Estonia or the European Union. Just as long as they had to live legally on the territory of the local government so that they could vote. I looked at the results back then. Mart Nutt and I, who are in this Chamber, voted against this amendment, your party's predecessor, the representatives of the then People's Union, at least 10 people, Jaak Allik, Janno Reiljan and other well-known people, voted in favour of it. So where were you? Then why didn't you influence the outcome? These debates have, unfortunately, been held a long time ago. And where was Mr Helme older Helme when the foundations of citizenship policy were defined in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U100	Thank you. I can say for sure that we then argued against this amendment. We also wrote articles at the time. But we were not members of Parliament or even of any political party at the time. I don't know the exact year, but we weren't in active politics. Jaak Allik is now a member of the Social Democratic Party. I don't know about Janno Reiljan's party membership, but yes, it was a different party. This is the legal predecessor of our party, but it was a party with a different policy. And they ended their policies on a relatively low percentage, I think. I disagree with your logic. Firstly, I do not agree with the argument that we are a party for simple solutions. I don't think what we're trying to do here is simple. Secondly, I do not agree with the logic that if something was done 25 or 10 years ago, then that is the case and we cannot change it, we must live with these consequences and simply accept them. No, you don't! I firmly believe that it is the task of guiding policy processes. And if we raise our paws and say that processes guide us and not our processes, frankly, we could look for another job. We have always opposed the dilution of Estonian citizenship. When we talk about me or Mart Helme or the whole political group of our party, or about the values and principles of our party today, I think it is well known to everyone in general that we have opposed the relaxation of citizenship. We have opposed large numbers of people who have a different cultural background, language skills and value system to come to Estonia. It would change our society in ways that we don't like. And we're working to make sure that doesn't happen. Restricting the right to vote in local elections only to citizens is in our party's programme since 2012. This was among our promises in the Riigikogu elections. There's nothing surprising or unexpected about it. There was also such ironic tooth sharpening in the Commission that, now suddenly, before the local elections, we discovered this issue. I didn't! For us, this topic has been on the table for a long time; for us, it has been important on a personal level long before we entered the Riigikogu. I think that, in the context of the local elections, it is a very appropriate time to discuss how to get involved in local elections, vote-candidate. So I don't think this ten-year-old relaxation was right. This relaxation needs to be reversed. We talk a lot about communities, local activity, etc. in Estonia. Such a censorship or restriction of five years of locality would certainly help linking people to their home place. People's responsibility for their home country increases and there is a closer connection with the municipality. I'm sure it's good. In the light of the current text of the Constitution, I think it is entirely reasonable to ask whether the lifting of such a restriction is not a violation of the Constitution. The Constitution says that the right to vote is a permanent person living within the limits of the municipality. If we do not actually measure this status in the elections, I believe that the Constitution has not been complied with. Nor is there any international rule or law prohibiting us from tightening up the right to vote. The Latvians, as we know, are very upset with us that we made significantly more relaxed rules in the early 1990s than they did. Latvia, I repeat once again, did not give the right to vote in local elections to permanent residents, but only to citizens. By the way, during the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it was also said that you see that Latvia has such a restriction and, despite this, the mayor of Riga is Russian. So if there's a rhetorical posture here that you're banning the Russians from participating in politics, then not at all. We motivate the Russians to participate in politics, after they have passed the naturalisation process. I think it is very important that the Russians living in Estonia undergo the naturalisation process. We would give them an additional motivator, a guideline and a signal from the state that if we live in Estonia, we must bind ourselves to this country. The citizenship exam is some kind of proof of loyalty. The language exam is proof that a person can cope in a local society. It's not bullying anyone to make these claims. Especially 25 years after the restoration of independence, this should not seem to anyone to be bullying. I do not think that because 25 years ago, because of circumstances and perhaps because of this, let us say, because of the small backbone, such a compromise was made, we must not revise this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U101	Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U102	Thank you. Dear speaker, you have claimed from the Estonian Parliament's chair that Russia is a hostile country to us and the Russians living here are putinists. On what documents are these statements based? Or is it just one person's opinion and, if so, would it be appropriate to call it out of Parliament's chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U103	Thank you. I think the basic proof is how the Russian citizens here vote in the Russian elections. I don't know exactly the decimal figures, but clearly over 80%, almost 90% of the Putin parties, Putin candidates or Putin itself depend on what election we're talking about. Whether Russia is a hostile state to us after the war in Georgia and after the war in Ukraine, we can argue, but the Russian state that is trying to restore the Soviet borders and spheres of influence is undoubtedly not a friendly state against the Republic of Estonia. I think it's self-evident, but maybe we just have different opinions.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U104	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U105	Thank you. Good waitress! As far as the Russian spirit is concerned, it is already very signicant that there are people in this Chamber who refuse to support the statement on deportation victims. This should prove that there is some kind of contingent in Estonia that is working against Estonia. However, as far as our legal predecessor is concerned, I think Mr Herkel has also seen what happens to the political careers of those people who are going to work against the national statehood of Estonia. Herkel's now finished in his social studies, which is perhaps the most tragic. But I have a question too. Perhaps a good waitress will give examples from other European countries that are still so kind and kind that any person from anywhere but who has a permanent residence permit will be allowed to decide who should, for example, run the capital of the country or who should be part of the electoral body for the election of the President. Is Estonia an exception compared to others?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U106	Thank you. Totally agree: Social Democratic Party membership is tragic. I do not have an accurate overview of how many countries practice like Estonia. It can be said, however, that this practice is rare. For Europe, I know that Finland gave non-citizens the opportunity to take part in local elections a few years ago, but as far as I know, there are stricter restrictions on the principle of localisation. And we consider, however, that Finland has not had to endure 50 years of occupation and the colonisation accompanying this occupation. We also had a discussion in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs about what Lithuania has then done. We know the Latvian solution. It is known that in Lithuania, the proportion of non-Lithuanians is much lower than the proportion of foreigners in Estonia and Latvia: it is about 10% of the population, of whom Poles are a significant proportion for historical reasons. In Lithuania, it was decided differently in the early '90s. There, in essence, everyone could choose Lithuanian citizenship, as he wanted. I can't give you more examples than I can tell you. It is possible that some countries are still, but the absolute majority of European countries and the absolute majority of other countries in the world do not allow non-citizens to participate so kindly in political life.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U107	George Adams.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U108	Mr. Helme! I'd like to continue my benchmate, Mr. Herkel, on matters ten years ago. If I'm wrong about something, fix me! This was the end of Riigikogu X. This was the time when the coalition of the Reform Party, the Central Party and the People's Union ruled, and the Prime Minister was Andrus Ansip. But I'm interested in it, I haven't been able to investigate why they started it. Was this their coalition agreement, such as the part written by the Central Party, or was the pressure on officials to make the work with the registers easier? What could have been the motive at the time?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U109	Thank you. I think your benchmate has a better answer at hand than I do. I was not a member of the Riigikogu at the time and could not tell what logic of everyday level existed at that time or why this decision was justified. But at that time, being an external observer of the so-called policy, I know that, in most cases, when we have had a relaxation of citizenship policy or language policy, pressure from Western Europe or the European Union, or pressure from the OECD, have played an important role. This is very regrettable, I mean that we all know that there is this pressure. That was before we regained our independence. We knew the Western countries were very lukewarm in this regard. Don't pull Gorbachev out of the chair or cause any confusion, so the poor Russians should get used to their privileged position! Don't do anything! We know this logic, we know the annoying roar of the liberal organisations of the international left and the world healers. We shouldn't ignore this at all. We must make decisions according to what is best for Estonia itself, for Estonian society itself and, of course, for the indigenous people in particular. That is the logic and meaning of our country. Anything that does not serve the interests of the Estonian people must be rejected. In this sense, Latvians have the right to be angry with Estonians. They endured this pressure both in the early '90s and in the late '90s when there was another wave of pressure. After all, when we started joining the European Union, a whole series of things were laid out for us, all we have to do and how we have to live. They endured this pressure and viewed Estonians as capitulants, betrayers, and underdoers of the rear or wing. I agree with them. The Latvians had more backbone than we did. Undoubtedly, some domestic and party arguments were also at stake at that time. Well, we can all logically conclude what the situation was like at the time. But I can't say I can't answer what the discussions were in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U110	Peter Ernits.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U111	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a specific question. Let's imagine that your draft 470 will be passed as a law. What, then, would the election result this autumn in a town like Narva, which is on the Russian border? Have you analyzed which party or parties would win in Narva? How would the situation develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U112	Thank you. First of all, I think it is very important to stress that this draft has nothing to do with the forthcoming elections. We all understand that the elections that are coming will be conducted on the basis of the rules currently in force. We're talking about an election four years away. If you wish, we can discuss the transitional period, perhaps even longer, so that people have time to adjust and pass the citizenship and language exams. We have not analysed the political situation in Narva. As far as I can tell, there's just a number of lists of the Centre Party. You can fix me. I don't know the decimal number again, but I think Narva and Sillamäe were once the municipalities where the proportion of citizens in the electorate was less than half. There are already significantly fewer people in all other municipalities who would not be able to participate in these elections. In Narva, if I remember correctly, this proportion has been more or less in half, for Sillamäe, I'm not going to tell you what the figure for this town is just in case. But I remember that they were at least some time ago two municipalities with fewer than half the citizens. I wouldn't go along with the so-called tactical day-to-day and party-political calculation of who wins, who loses. But I come back to Riga's example once again: despite the fact that only citizens have the right to vote, the Russians or the Russian block are essentially in power there. So nothing in Narva's gonna change. Maybe the voters would just be a little less. And maybe among those who couldn't choose, eventually a whole bunch of people would take themselves, finally take the citizenship and language exams, and get a choice, and maybe the result would be a better city council and city power. It is ultimately irrelevant which party wins or loses. What matters is how we build our society. And our view is that society must be built on a citizen basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U113	Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Martin, Remember I once paid you my respects? We were in the white room, and I told you how I respect the EKRE for putting all this stuff on top of you, not afraid to stand up for your views. In my eyes, cannibals who do their job in public are much better than that cannibal who eats a human rib in a dark corner. But I have a political question here. You're talking about the putinists, the election process in Russia. Look, there are three leaders in power for just under 20 years: Putin, Žirinovsky and Zjuganov. Give a suggestion here to the Russian electorate: if you don't want him to choose Putin, will he have to choose Communist Zjuganov or Liberal Democrat Zirinovsky? I think they'll obey.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U115	Thank you very much for the question, and thank you very much for the compliment. In that sense, I agree that I would rather respect those political opponents who are not afraid of fighting than those who are sneaking around the corner and trying to get behind it. I'm through and out of a summer silhouette. That is one reason why I am very critical of the European Union. And I don't think I have anything to suggest to the Russians how to rule the Russian state. That's the problem of the Russian people they choose between. It always makes fun of me to have passionate speeches in Estonia to defend liberal democracy. Then I ask you, by the way, how do you have a relationship with Zirinovsky, these liberal democrats, they're gonna do a lot without our border to the east. However, it is not quite the case that there is no one else in Russia to choose from, that the choice is only Zjuganov, Žirinovsky and Putin. Even I, who must honestly admit that I absolutely do not care what is happening in Russia, know that there is some sort of opposition force there. These people may be imprisoned from time to time, shot and poisoned, but they can still vote for them in the elections. I have no advice for Russian citizens either on this side of the border or on that side of the border on how they should behave in their own government. I just think that they should not be able to choose both in the elections in Russia and in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U116	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U117	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good waitress! Please, would you define what or who is a community within the meaning of the EKRE? Who can be part of it, and do members of the community have the right to decide who will implement their policy choices?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U118	Thank you. Very respectfully: I wouldn't define it. I think that on this definition we could have a separate debate here on a matter of national importance. It's such a rubber concept, and so many things are put under it, from volunteer rescuers to kindergarten groups and village elders. This is today's trending word, just as the Russian time had a quality mark. If you say community, community thing, you're much better off talking. I'd rather not define a community. But I suppose we understand each other more or less: the community is something local, something where people know each other more or less on a personal level, if not entirely close, at least by face and name. There's some kind of common value space and some kind of common geographical space. Now I'm starting to define. Maybe that's enough. I do not think that we can in any way define the right to vote by community. It's definitely too loose a concept for that.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U119	Please, Oudekki Loone!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U120	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In Europe, there are 11 countries - Belgium, Estonia, the Netherlands, Iceland, Ireland, Norway, Finland, Sweden, Slovakia, Slovenia and Denmark - where non-nationals can also vote in local elections from outside the EU. In Spain and Portugal, there is a relevant agreement with certain countries, to a large extent with Latin American countries, and in Ireland and Slovenia there is no time-census for how long you have to live in a local government in order to get the right to vote. Now, did you lie to us from the remote on purpose, or has your preparation just been careless and unprofessional?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U121	Thank you. Well, what do you think? I'm gonna lie to you on purpose, okay? In fact, I have now received such information from this list that there are two countries where there are the same countries as in Estonia, where there is no restriction. Two countries: one is Irish and I don't remember what the other was. But it's still a very rare solution in the world. And none of these countries have survived 50 years of occupation and colonisation resulting from the occupation of any one of these countries! It's incomparable! In the case of Spain, there are other concerns; these are concerns relating to Gibraltar. We don't have former colonies in Latin America. So all of this is not directly comparable to our situation. However, most countries in Europe do not practice this practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U122	The Dark One.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U123	Thank you. Good brother! As the president of the Estonian-Latvian parliamentary group, the same group also includes the overwhelming part of the representatives of the Estonian-Latvian parliament, and I felt very warm when the Latvian citizenship policy was repeatedly approved. Am I right to understand that these congratulations could be transferred to the current citizenship initiative of Latvian President Raimonds Vejonis, with which he recently appeared on Latvian television?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U124	I must honestly admit that I am not familiar with what he was doing on Latvian television. We are currently conducting elections in Estonia. But like Estonia, Latvia is not a presidential state either. The President may make any interesting comments. I recall that the President of Estonia, Lennart Meri, expressed his wish that we should have the President's direct election here. Well, how far has it come? The Centre Party has tabled a proposal with this content 11 times; they have not made it anywhere by today either. The President of Latvia will undoubtedly have the same freedom as any other politician to express his thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U125	Thank you. It's not a question, it's a fact correction. The Oudek question revealed that you are not very familiar with the country that is voting. It turned out from the above that no one but us had to survive 50 years of occupation. You tell that to the Irish who have lived under British occupation for hundreds of years! You tell that to those countries that were either under the Russian Empire or under the Austrian-Hungarian or German Empire! You tell that to the Slavs who were under Turkish rule for hundreds of years! We are not here in history, of course, but there could be some respect for European history.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U126	Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U127	Thank you. I have great respect for European history. And I would like to point out that both the Irish and the Austrian-Hungarian nation states who broke up with the Austrian-Hungarian Empire were independent more or less at the same time as the Republic of Estonia, or after World War I. This was the time of the destruction of the great multi-ethnic empires and, in place of these empires, indeed, in place of Tsar-Russia, in place of Austria-Hungarian, the nation states, among them Estonia, emerged. The difference between Estonia and, for example, Ireland or Hungary or another Central European country is that our independence lasted 22 years, and then there was a 50-year occupation. This did not happen in Ireland. Ireland did not even participate in World War II. True, the issue of Northern Ireland is still frustrating and frustrating to the Irish. This has created a wave of terror in England, that is, Britain. But the essence of this history lesson is that these European nation states were all independent almost exactly 100 years ago. And 100 years later, we can see that some of these countries have succeeded in being independent for 100 years, but some of them failed to be independent for more than half the time. It's a very important background difference. I think you have to respect that with respect for history and history in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U128	Honourable waitress, there are no further questions for you. I invite a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to make comments to the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U129	Mr President! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law at two regular sessions: one on 11 September and the other on 12 September. A main substantive debate took place at the meeting on 11 September, with procedural decisions being taken on 12 September. As a guest, Mariko Jõeorg-Jurtshenko, the representative of the Ministry of Justice, was invited to the meeting on 11 September, who also presented the position of the Government of the Republic on this draft law. I am not going to read the minutes literally, it is possible for everyone to get it, but I would like to mention some of the questions and issues that were the subject of the debate. First, as usual, Martin Helme, the initiator of the bill, introduced it. Questions and comments followed. One question raised was why the principle of a nation state and the right of non-citizens to vote are incompatible. The emphasis on the question was that one does not necessarily exclude the other. Citizens of other countries may also vote in local elections in a national state. The answer to this question was that it was primarily a political-philosophic issue, not so practical. Secondly, why has this issue of electoral rights been raised in the run-up to local elections? And how would disenfranchising the right to vote contribute to integration or assimilation? The answer was that pre-election time was precisely the best time to address this issue. The question was also about Latvia and Lithuania. Today, information has already been provided about Latvia and Lithuania in several contexts. Indeed, in Latvia, as in about half of the Member States of the European Union, foreign citizens, with the exception of citizens of the European Union, cannot vote at local elections. This is already a consequence of European Union law. However, this is possible in Lithuania. The initiators argued that the voting rights of foreigners in the European Union are exceptional, but unfortunately this is not the case. This is not exceptional. Like I said, it's about half the countries. If there is an interest in statistics, then very precise statistics on which regime exists in one country or another, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is entirely there. I'm not going to read this table here. The debate raised the question of how this constitutional provision, which gives the right to participate in local elections to permanent residents, has been looked at in the past and how it has developed in the first place. Here I can refer to an earlier meeting on the basis of memory, which I also presented at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Local Council Election Act was discussed for the first time in 1993 in the then State Law Committee, which is now called the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. At that meeting, the Chancellor of Justice, Truuväli, also attended. His position was that this provision gives permanent residents the right to vote in local elections and that right cannot be prohibited by law. Therefore, if this procedure is to be amended, the corresponding provision in the Constitution must be amended. This requires political desire. The current bill cannot change that order. However, it cannot be said that this is impossible at all. No, that's not impossible. As I said, about half of the Member States of the European Union do not allow foreign citizens to vote in local elections. But yes, as a result of this interpretation, the Constitution still needs to be amended first. Unfortunately, the Constitution cannot be amended by ordinary law. As has been pointed out today, the circle of permanent voters has indeed been changed. The Riigikogu has changed this a few times. Until 2006, there was a five-year locality censorship, and so long had to have lived on the territory of the local government, not just in Estonia. This requirement applied to non-Estonian citizens, so Estonian citizens and non-nationals were subject to different arrangements. In 2006, the government coalition, led by Andrus Ansip, which included not only the Reform Party but also the Centre Party and the Estonian People's Union, changed this provision. Why was this done? Do not ask me, I was a member of the opposition at the time, and I am not able to comment on the reasons for this initiative. I also consider it necessary to mention a subject and also the name of its highlightr. It was Jüri Adams, simply because no one else in this hall has such historical memory as Jüri Adams, so only he could refer to it. He referred to the discussion held in the Constitutional Assembly and the agreement reached. If I quote wrong, I ask Mr Adams to correct it. This agreement was based on the view that in the case of citizenship, Estonian law should be guided by the principle of legitimacy, which means that an Estonian citizen is automatically considered to be a person who also had Estonian citizenship before the Soviet occupation. Others must be subject to the principle of naturalisation. However, given the situation, it was found that the right to vote could be wider in local elections and that people who do not have Estonian citizenship could also vote. I will now go to the meeting on 12 September, where the question was raised, which was also raised by the rapporteur who presented the draft today. Namely, that the President of Estonia is also indirectly elected by non-Estonian citizens, as they choose the local government council. However, the representative of the local government belongs to the electoral body when the electoral body elects the President. Yes, it is, but the Constitution provides for such a procedure. So there is nothing to comment on. In addition to the debate, procedural decisions were taken, which were as follows: First of all, it was proposed that the 470 draft law be put on the agenda of the plenary today, by 19 September. There were eight people for it, one against one and one abstention. By Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Ivari Padar, Tiit Terik, Peeter Ernits, Henn Põlluaas, Helmut Hallemaa and Arto Aas. Jüri Adams opposed and Kalle Laane abstained. Secondly, it was proposed that draft 470 be rejected, with eight people in favour and two against, with no abstentions. By Marko Pomerants, Mart Nutt, Ivari Padar, Tiit Terik, Peeter Ernits, Helmut Hallemaa, Arto Aas and Kalle Laane. Henn Põllaas and Jüri Adams were opposed. Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. It was a consensual decision, not going to read the names again. I'm sorry, I missed the position of the Government of the Republic. The government's view was that the draft would not be supported. The government referred to the same constitutional provision: the Constitution provides an opportunity for permanent residents of non-Estonian citizens to participate in local elections. The Constitution does not give rise to any restriction on local electoral rights, and the law has given a similar interpretation in the executive edition of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U130	The first question to the rapporteur is put by Helmut Hallemaa.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U131	Good President! Good colleague Mart! This was a very comprehensive overview of the Commission's work. In the Commission, we really had a discussion that such drafts should be presented together with comparable figures for another Europe. You pointed out that, in fact, at the first sitting of the committee, the rapporteur did not present the correct picture of the situation in European countries. But there was actually another question in the Commission, and that was not what I asked. It was examined whether there has been such a practice in Europe that there has been a restriction on constitutional rights that have been in force for years? Has this been done in some countries in Europe?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U132	Thank you. I'm not getting caught up in this practice. Perhaps in some countries it has been done, I cannot deny it with 100% certainty. But I'm not familiar with this practice. Not that I know of.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U133	Igor Gräzin.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U134	Please tell me how you appreciate this situation! The task of local government is basically sanitation, asphalt, roofs, public transport, etc. These are topics that the largest municipality in Tallinn does not deal with very much, but in Tallinn, the government's politics are being dealt with. The idea is that in Tallinn they were said to no longer comply with the laws of the Republic and to leave Estonia's legal space. In short, direct confrontation is the city of Tallinn versus the state of Estonia. Is this normal and how you assess the current situation, where a third of Estonia tends to control two thirds! What should we do in such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U135	Thank you. The simplest answer is: the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not discuss this issue. However, in the hope that I will not go beyond the limits of my mandate, I can say so much that I do not think this situation is normal, but it is not illegal.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U136	No further questions for you. Thanks to the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Mikhail Stalnukhin on behalf of the Estonian Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, If a representative of the initiators listened to the speech with his eyes closed and tried to replace the word 'Russian' with 'Jew', then you could imagine sitting in Reichstag in November 1935 listening to laws being passed on the purity of the race. This feeling will grow even more if you listen here to Mr Gräzin's speech, where he talks about a mysterious and suspicious minority who is trying to control an unhappy majority. And we will listen to all of this the same day that the Klooga camp's dead are commemorated. Are we insane? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U138	Jüri Adams on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U139	Mr President, there are a few minutes left until the end of working hours. Even if I start speaking on behalf of my group now, I will not be able to finish it today. Do we, Mr President, have any chance of extending working hours?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U140	Once you've started, you'll have at least five minutes, if you want an extra time, up to eight minutes. But time runs.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U141	I'm asking for eight minutes! In my opinion, this draft should be classified as a provocation. And provocation, not in such a malicious sense, but in a typological way. I guess we've had provocations in the Riigikogu before. During history, the Centre Party has done the most of this by presenting various draft amendments to the Constitution, knowing in advance that they will lead nowhere. But here, the provocative moment is basically completely new. Let's hypothetically imagine that this bill will become a law. The President shall then be put in a position where he must not declare it, as it is contrary to § 156 (2) of the Constitution. It would probably have been more appropriate to initiate the amendment of the Constitution. Another sign of provocation is, in my opinion, that, like provocative political acts at all, it also creates discord, creates conflicts, reduces domestic peace and reduces the opportunity to move forward constructively. Let's get to the bottom of it! The root of the problem is the Constitutional Assembly. It was as if the Constitutional Assembly was debating this issue and it was not. It was a quadalized question. This proposal was formulated in the minds of various thinkers. Andres Ammas has just reviewed the book of the Constitutional Assembly and it has been mentioned three times that there was a discussion in the large hall of the Constitutional Assembly. It seems that most people at the time considered this a reasonable compromise. The background was the question of which principles of citizenship would restore Estonia's independence. Here two very clear groups of views were distinguished. According to one, the solution, which was called the nullity of citizenship, was considered to be correct: that everyone who is currently living in Estonia would become a citizen. The supporters of the second considered continuity to be the right thing. There was a compromise between them, and part of this compromise is the relevant provisions of the Constitution. I was one of the proponents of consistency. In addition, I thought that the issue must also be resolved in the same way that every person who is not an Estonian citizen and who will live in Estonia must be able to make a personal choice as to whether he will remain a Russian citizen or a citizen of another state or whether he wants Estonian citizenship. And you can't press that decision. The draft submitted today by Mr Helme from this board also included the idea of imposing on these people the application for Estonian citizenship. I have to admit, I was against it at the time, and I am against it now. The results of this 25 years ago are that, for various reasons, partly because of pressure, these non-Estonians are divided into three pages: more or less about a third, a third and a third. One third are those who have in the meantime chosen Estonian citizenship. One third has probably remained a Russian citizen as Russian patriots, with all the consequences that this entails, which there is no time to talk about here. And what is now a real global surprise, the politicians probably couldn't foresee it, is that about a third of this population doesn't care about any nationality or country at all. As long as they think they can live sensibly. And it goes on like this, and I think it should go on until the death of the last person like that. Nobody might like it, but I'm gonna stick to my opinion that you can't push. Now, why has this issue been raised? I believe that this issue has been raised because there is some frustration in Estonian society in relation to the results of this political compromise. And now the question is raised afterwards whether 25 years ago the Constitutional Assembly did not make the wrong choice. In my opinion, this is a completely legitimate question, it must be asked and answered, but the form of submitting a draft is not the best way of asking this question and seeking an answer to it. I believe that this decision has had a number of good, positive results and a number of very bad consequences. We cannot read the good results now, but we can see, for example, that there are currently a number of non-Estonians among us in this Chamber who speak Estonian well and are able to work in the Estonian Parliament, even though their first steps on this road began by acting in the municipalities of a Russian-speaking city or municipality. This is one of many small positive experiences. The negative experience is undoubtedly that a very large number of people who have not taken the path of taking Estonian citizenship have been completely scandalous in the elections for 25 years, and this is still happening. In many cities with a large Russian-speaking population, electoral votes have been given to the local gangs of state thieves and other corrupters, keeping them alive, maintaining the Soviet corruption system and bringing us new forms of corruption in neighbouring Russia. In Estonian society, we have to ask: listen, dear non-citizens, whoever you are, mostly you are Russians, why have you not raised leaders among yourselves who would go along with the better part of Estonian society? This problem is like the chains on the leg of the Estonian state so that it is not possible to run quickly. Can't we handle this? If these elections bring thieves back to local authority, what happens next? If this continues to be the case, there will indeed be some kind of movement that asks why you will not support the development needed in the common interest and will continue to do what is not necessary for the Estonian state and which should normally result in a prison sentence for corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-09-19_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, At this point, I interrupt the negotiations because our working time in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu is limited. We will continue the procedure for the draft law and the debate in tomorrow's session. Thank you for your speeches and debate. I'll see you tomorrow. Closure of the sitting at 1.04 p.m.
