ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! We will begin the 15th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is usually possible to pass on inquiries and draft laws at the beginning of the sitting. Please, Valdo Randpere! I repeat the call. Valdo Randpere, it is possible to deliver drafts and inquiries. The noise of the conversations is a little too strong, so let's leave these conversations in the costaars. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U2	Make the hall quiet so I can talk. [[The manager's ringing the bell.]] I am handing over, on behalf of the Reform Party Group, the draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act on on on-call time. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Chamber, there was recently a draft law amending the Employment Contracts Act, one of the central points of which was the amendment of the terms of the on-call time, but in the end these points were voted out for some reason at the last moment. As this is a change that the IT sector in particular has been looking forward to very much and what it needs to do in order to be effective, we are making an attempt to present a new draft law. We propose that a specific rule on the general regulation of on-call time should be introduced in the labour laws, which would provide for an obligation to ensure a daily and weekly rest period for the worker, unless a significant restriction is applied to the employer, provided that the contract of employment or collective agreement with the worker has agreed to use on-call time only for urgent work and provided that the duration of on-call time per 28 calendar days does not exceed 130 hours and that the worker's health and safety are not adversely affected by the deviation from rest periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U3	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Good guests! The Social Affairs Committee initiates a draft law amending the Employment Capacity Allowance Act and related amendments to other laws. This draft removes bottlenecks in the payment of the disability allowance. The draft amends the conditions for the advance payment of the disability allowance in order to avoid the emergence of a period of absence of income for whatever reason the person is concerned by the transition from the payment of the disability pension to the payment of the disability allowance. The conditions for the payment of the disability allowance shall also be adjusted in order to encourage a person with partial working capacity to obtain education, to avoid an unfair reduction in the disability allowance and to ensure that he or she is also in hospital care and cannot meet the conditions for obtaining the disability allowance. Other laws are also being amended to change the conditions for the identification of disabilities and the payment of dental benefits. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U5	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Bureau takes them to the proceedings. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 83 members of the Riigikogu are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U6	Today, the first and the only item on the agenda of the Riigikogu is the debate on the "Priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union" of the national issue of key importance. Allow me to briefly present the procedure before going to this item. First of all, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas is a presentation that lasts up to 30 minutes. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 60 minutes. The President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Toomas Vitsut, will then give a presentation, which will last up to 20 minutes. Questions and answers following the presentation, lasting up to 30 minutes. Each member of the Riigikogu may ask an oral question to each of the two rapporteurs. After that, negotiations will take place. Ladies and gentlemen, negotiations have not yet begun! During the negotiations, members of the Riigikogu and representatives of committees and political groups can take the floor. At the request of the Committee on European Union Affairs, representatives of the political groups first appear. The Riigikogu will not take a decision after the end of the discussion. The Committee on European Union Affairs has also requested an extension of the agenda, but we will come back to it, as usual, a little later. Now I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Prime Minister Jüri Ratas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U7	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Ambassadors! Good guests! Honourable Europeans! The European Union's greatest service to the countries and peoples of our continent is that there has been no war in Europe. That is why the European Union also won the Nobel Peace Prize a few years ago. Estonia has been part of the joint European family for 13 years and we value it highly. Almost four fifths of the Estonian population support membership of the European Union. 46 days remain until the beginning of the Estonian Presidency. For many people in Tallinn and Brussels, these are very intense 1104 hours, but we are ready for the Presidency. Our goals are set, more than 1,700 working group meetings planned, 265 events prepared, 318 talented people employed and more than 500 files put on the table. In-depth preparation will hopefully mean that we will not be caught by events unexpectedly. I would like to thank all the people who have contributed to this, including the members of the Riigikogu in this honourable Chamber of the Riigikogu, whose full support we will certainly continue to feel. The main issues and activities of our Presidency are currently in place. But I want to start with something else. Our priorities have been carefully considered and discussed, each initiative and event analysed at length. There's not a single thing on this list that's irrelevant. The most important of these is that Europe remains strong and united. As Donald Tusk said recently: 'Europe as a political community is either united or not at all. ' Our Presidency's motto is 'Cohesion through balance'. Estonians like to view signs and slogans with little irony. However, these three words sum up the most important task of our Presidency: we will help Europe to keep together and make sure that no one feels left out or abandoned. Being united and acting united is not just a slogan; it is not enough to declare it. Unity requires work, compromises, goodwill, sometimes swallowing pride or hard explaining. It is this common part and the search for a balance that the Presidency will play: a fair balance between new and traditional, risky and safe, economic, social and environmental, large and small, north and south, east and west. As a balancing force, we must be first and foremost good listeners. It is important to agree with the 27 Member States on the state of unity and operational capacity of the European Union. We are happy to take on the role of balancer. A determined European Union is in the interest of all of us. We never want a Europe that is divided and divided back against one another. Honourable ambassadors! Europe is still in good health to the disappointment of the cynics, populists, and doomsday proclaimers. The shock and internal exposition following the referendum in the United Kingdom led first to the Bratislava Summit and then to the Rome Declaration. The process of re-founding itself showed how strong the foundation of Europe and the desire for cooperation are. Not only must we be united, but we also want to be united. In spite of all the trials, the Estonian Independence Manifesto would like to say: 'Europe, you are standing on the brink of a hopeful future. ' I am proud of the birth of the Roman Declaration and what it says. This is a statement from a Union that is not afraid to be open to the world and wants to keep and develop what has been achieved together. Pope Francis said that day up there that the European Union is greater than the sum of its parts and that unity does not mean no difference but their consistency. 'This is the time to be wise, the time to determine what is essential to us and to build on it,' said Pope Francis. That is exactly what we have done. We can be pleased that this paper, which will guide Europe's future, is important to us: the importance of security, security and neighbourhood, the need to develop the European Economic Area to the end with the necessary connections, as well as the fearlessness of dealing with the opportunities and risks of rapid technological change. The challenge of our unity and determination is how well we can implement what we say. The Estonian Presidency is part of a longer journey and our four priorities are from the spirit of Bratislava and Rome. Our guiding principles are: an open and innovative Europe, a secure and protected Europe, a digital Europe and the free movement of data, an inclusive and sustainable Europe. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Our priority is an open and innovative Europe. The European Union is not just about the economy, but without a strong economy, it would be hard to imagine. Our agricultural policy and the Structural Funds, the fight against youth unemployment, border and nature protection, and very deep and diverse cooperation will make it possible to build on four fundamental freedoms. This will make possible everything we expect in Europe: peace, security and prosperity. The European economy must be open and innovative; it must be open to change, new opportunities and fresh ideas. An internal market bringing together 500 million consumers is one of Europe's greatest achievements. We have opened our borders to goods, services, capital and people in other Member States. However, the single market is still not complete and much of the potential of the European economy is still untapped. Almost 90% of new jobs will be created in the services sector. It is particularly important that they are easy to create and that businesses can grow without hindrance. To this end, we are working on the preparation of an e-card for European services, the issue of regulated professions and the reform of European Union company law. If Estonian architects in the future design a new opera house in Milan, for example, then Estonian and Italian officials would do the necessary bureaucratic background work, so that the Polish civil engineer who is involved in the same project would also be recognised by local authorities, so that the Irish family company moving to Milan can start holding a cafe in the new opera house and enter itself in the Italian register without effort, and if the famous cookies of the opera house are to be exported to Japan and South America, this could already be done on the basis of new free trade agreements. Companies are created and successful if their operating environment is simple, predictable and supportive. As a rule, money is also needed. This is particularly important for small companies, which often find it difficult to obtain financing. The European Fund for Strategic Investments, which supports both private and public investment and makes it easier to invest abroad, will help alleviate the situation. Fair competition is part of a good business environment. It is difficult for honest companies to compete with tax evasion. That is why, as President-in-Office, we are working to improve the cross-border VAT system, to establish rules for financial advisors and to improve cooperation between the tax administrations of the Member States. As tax competition is international, non-cooperative countries, tax havens, must be placed on a blacklist. To conclude on the economic issue, I would like to highlight another aspect which has a major impact on both the business and the consumer. It's energy. Europe's energy system must become smarter, cleaner and more favourable. Since July, we have been carrying a large clean energy package that deals with all the most important aspects of the Energy Union. Agreeing on renewable energy, the functioning of the electricity market and energy savings is not easy, but we need rapid solutions. Without a single European energy policy and an energy market, it will be difficult to realise our desire to be separated from Russia's energy system and fully connected to Europe. Good fellows! Our second priority is a safe and secure Europe. Politicians like to repeat that it is always about the economy. It's a slogan of peaceful times, when history is on a break for a moment and peace seems eternal. History is the foundation and best teacher in Europe. The European Union began more than 60 years ago as a peace project, and security and security are now back on top of the agenda. We are open to the world, but our home must be safe and secure. Our security depends not only on our home yard, but also on what is happening in other parts of the world and our persuasion on the international stage. The strength and unity of the European Union's foreign policy remains important to us. As President-in-Office, we support Federica Mogherini in implementing European foreign and security policy. Europe must do more in defence and improve its defence capabilities. I am pleased that this observation is being heard from an increasing number of European capitals. We need to invest more in defence because an empty bag is not standing. In the same way, closer cooperation in the field of defence and an agreement on how to jointly finance the European Union's military operations are essential. NATO and its close ties with the United States remain crucial to us. It is all the more necessary for Europe to be a stronger partner in the future. Great Britain will also remain very close to us in this regard. But threats are not always military. For the Schengen area to be secure and for Europe to move freely, the European Union's external borders must be secure and both persons and goods better controlled. Criminals must not be able to hide their past when moving from one Member State to another. Law enforcement bodies must have the right legal system and the right toolbox to cooperate and exchange data. To this end, we will build up a number of comprehensive common databases, including border crossings, laissez-passer and return decisions. In doing so, it is essential that these databases communicate with each other and that the information flows between countries. No terrorist or criminal must be missed because we cannot cooperate with each other. I do not want to call migration a threat, but we know that this has led to a political crisis in Europe that needs to be resolved. What is happening in Syria is a tragedy. We have a duty to help people who are fleeing from war and serious violations of human rights. They have no choice, and in the case of those arriving in Europe, neither do we have a different choice from today, even if we can do much outside Europe. We need to help not because we are Europeans, but because we are people. However, coping with a large flow of refugees is not easy and requires a well-considered policy. Here it is worth recalling the motto of our Presidency: no country will solve the migration crisis alone; we must contribute together. A balance needs to be struck between the responsibilities of countries facing the arrival of refugees every day and those countries that have to contribute in other ways. The migration crisis proves that Europe cannot ignore what is happening beyond its borders. A long-term solution is needed to improve the situation in the countries of origin of refugees and make it impossible for traffickers to act. We are working hard to achieve this in the framework of the migration partnership. As a result, access to Italy by Libyan traffickers, for example, is now much more difficult. It is in the interests of the European Union that it is peace and good for people to live in our immediate vicinity. The Eastern Partnership is important to us. Ukraine, Moldova, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus and Georgia must be aware of the Union's full support. The Eastern Partnership Summit on 24 November must deliver tangible results for partner countries, their citizens and businesses. Although the foreign policy of the European Union is not to transport Estonia, I would stress once again that the unity of the European Union is our most important foreign policy tool. This also applies to the European Union's relations with Russia. The European Union has taken a united and principled stance on conduct that violates international legal order. Russia has not changed its behaviour or fulfilled its obligations and the conflict in Ukraine continues. The European Union's policy towards Russia must therefore continue. It is based on five principles agreed by the Foreign Ministers, the most important of which is full compliance with the Minsk Agreements. Good listeners! Our third priority is digital Europe and the free movement of data. Obviously, no one will be surprised that this is one of our priorities. When speaking to European colleagues, Estonia's IT-mainstream seems so strong that we are expected to have a six-month e-Europe ready. We must remain realistic, but we do indeed have a large digital programme that is vital for Europe's future. The creation of a single e-market will bring more than 400 additional billion a year into the European economy and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs. Europe must take action not to lag behind the rest of the rapidly developing world. Estonia's head start will also shrink if we do not press pedals intensively. If the Digital Single Market Package is the heart of our digital programme, then we will also look through binary glasses during the Presidency, because perhaps something can be done smarter and better with IT solutions. Information technology is not a matter of itself, but of the role and the means of achieving the goals of today's society. The Internet and digital tools have already changed and will continue to change working, resting, communication with family and friends and hobbies. There are clear prerequisites for the functioning of the digital society. One of them is the free movement of data. If people, goods, services and capital can move without restrictions within the European Union, data and information must do the same. We call it the fifth fundamental freedom. There is still a great deal to be done to create a functioning digital internal market, including the Commission's initiative on the free movement of data in the autumn at the latest. The European Code of Electronic Communications under discussion provides the basis for the free movement of data, as well as for fast, high quality and cross-border access to the internet. Each Estonian has been angry at least once if it has not been able to watch basketball or ski transfers in Estonian while travelling or if it has not been able to order a winter sweater on the Internet. It doesn't have to be like this. In a shop in Paris, a Spaniard is not charged a different price than a local resident. The development of cross-border e-commerce and e-services brings concrete tangible benefits for both business and consumers. Besides stopping geo-blocking, we are working to ensure that consumer rights and guarantees are the same, in any country he makes his own e-purchase. The cross-border e-VAT system and the taxation of e-books and e-magazines also need to be updated. Another major initiative that directly affects people's daily lives is copyright reform. Most of us read online news, watch Youtube videos or watch TV shows. We didn't do it ten years ago. The implementation of this reform will help the laws to catch up and make the national broadcasting programme available throughout Europe. In Estonia, we are rightly proud that it is easy to do business here via the Internet. We have an experience to share, and we hope that the whole of Europe will be ready to think along how to make e-governance a reality. We would like to shape these discussions into a declaration from Tallinn that will be remembered by our Presidency. We plan to take practical steps in parallel in the field of eHealth and e-Justice. Our enthusiasm for digital issues is well known to everyone, but not all countries share it to the same extent. That, too, is understandable. Great changes always lead to fears and problems. Someone's in danger of losing. We know from experience that there are risks to cyber security and privacy. We take these concerns seriously. In order to make good progress on digital issues, convincing answers must be given to the questions raised. I believe Europe is ready for gear change. One clear signal is that in September the Heads of Government and Heads of State of the European Union will come to Tallinn to discuss Europe's digital future. Together, we look not only for tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but also for five, ten and fifty years. Good people! Our fourth priority is an inclusive and sustainable Europe. Economic and technological developments are often opposed to humanity and the environment. This is not right and, fortunately, it is not true in Europe. The value of man and nature is not a luxury here, but a principle that we always take into account. We're quite unique in this world. The priorities of the Estonian Presidency cannot be ranked according to the importance, but in my opinion, an inclusive and sustainable Europe is the same as our digital themes. It is important to us that Europe is at peace with itself and others, beautiful, free, prosperous and secure. We want Europe to be like this for everyone, not only now, but also in the future. The European Union has always meant equal opportunities, whether at work or in social life. As President-in-Office, we will focus, for example, on ensuring that workers posted to another country are treated fairly compared to local workers, on bringing people with special needs closer to society by means of technology, and on improving their access to products and services, and on making it easier to reconcile family and professional life. We know that, together with the development of technology, work will change. This brings interesting opportunities, from digital nomads in eBay and Etsy to nanas selling knitted fabrics. People will only benefit from these changes if they are ready for them and have the necessary skills and the laws take into account new realities. This is particularly important for young people who will hopefully be made easier to learn and find a job by the Europass online platform. In a situation where it is not easy to find work, volunteering provides valuable experience and a useful complement to the CV. The European Solidarity Corps brings together volunteers and young people who want to volunteer. It is like the European Union's version of a start-up company in Estonia. We don't have any extra people. Everyone has the right to be kept, to work, to spend time with their families, to live and contribute fully to society. However, much of our satisfaction with life depends on the environment. We must live with less burdens on nature. It is not only necessary in the interests of our mental and physical health, although it should already be a sufficient argument, but also for rational reasons. Overburdened and damaged ecosystems represent a direct threat to our agriculture, our industry, our energy production, and our economy as a whole. Finding a balance between nature and the economy is not only possible but essential. As President-in-Office, we have two major issues where we are looking for this balance with other Member States: the European Union's climate and waste policy. 99.9% of the world's climatologists are convinced... Can I have two more minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U8	Two more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U9	...that man-made climate change is a reality. We take the implementation of the Paris climate agreement seriously. To this end, we will reform the European Union's emissions trading system, reduce CO2 emissions in different sectors and address the contribution of land use and forestry to climate change. Apart from reducing the speed and consequences of climate change, this will also lead to cleaner air as a bonus. A competitive economy must not only be less energy-intensive, but must save all resources. Garbage is a visible symptom of wasting, which also threatens animals and destroys the living environment. We need to shape our production and consumption so that less waste is generated and can be re-used. This ambitious task is also reflected in the European Union's waste package. Dear fellow Europeans! In these six months, we will be able to make tangible improvements in the lives of the people of Europe. Unfortunately, there is also a sad event that will fall into this period: negotiations are beginning on the departure of the United Kingdom. This is sad because the United Kingdom is Estonia's long-standing partner, ally and companion. However, as the British themselves say, it is no longer worth weeping over already spilled milk. We must bear in mind that the negotiations are taking place during our Presidency and they affect the environment in which we operate. However, Brexit is neither the main issue nor the priority of our Presidency. We have a role to play in this process, but the day-to-day work here is on the Commission's shoulders. I highlighted the main issues of our Presidency in sync with the Bratislava Roadmap and the Rome Declaration. This does not mean that Estonia will only take over what the European Union is already doing. For years, the European Union has dealt with topics that are important to Estonia. We have also played a role in bringing and keeping these issues on the table. The Rome Declaration is not the first or last European Union document on which fingerprints of Estonians can be found. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U10	An hour's round of questions and answers will be opened by Andres Herkel.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U11	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Prime Minister, for your presentation. You missed half the page, but I think the question of the questions is how the Estonian face will be drawn during the Presidency. Here, to put it mildly, I'm a little bit inconvenient. A strong digital face is blurred by e-election cuts, a strong monetary policy face is damaged by budget deficits and new taxes. The appreciation of nature, which you have emphasised here, is blurring by increasing felling volumes and yesterday the 'Actual Camera' showed what Europeans thought about it. Jne, et cetera. What is this internal political example that could provide convincing content for Estonia's existing strengths and priorities expressed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U12	Thank you. I think that Estonia's internal political example has been appreciated and appreciated for a reason in the European Union. We can certainly be proud of the reconstruction of our country and of all the issues you raised, be it monetary policy, forest management or waste management policy. You're right, we don't just have to talk about digital issues. But I don't see why not go to the table. I think that Estonia has always been among the core countries that want to move forward and move forward quickly with Europe and who want to keep the European Union alive in the last 13 years, when we have been part of the European Union. Speaking of Estonia's latest decisions, it can be noted that last week the government decided to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the week before that Estonia decided to join PESCO in order to enhance defence cooperation. I think this is the best example Estonia has set in terms of its daily activities as well as its internal policies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U13	Kalle Palling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U14	Thank you. Prime Minister! I do not want to ask you what it is like to be on this board and to talk about the forthcoming Presidency of the European Union, being the chairman of this party, who only 14 years ago campaigned to ensure that the European Union is not joined. But I ask you about your enthusiasm for introducing e-topics and creating this enthusiasm in others. The vice-president of your party, Jaanus Karilaid, has said that if you could, you would lose the e-elections. He has embellished the saying that he believes that it has been possible to manipulate e-elections. Neither the Republic Election Commission nor any expert analysis confirm this, or Jaanus Karilaid is lying. What do you think it will look like for your colleagues at the Council table who will meet here in Tallinn at the end of September to see how we have progressed in using e-elections and dealing with other topics?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U15	Thank you. I'll start with the Centre Party. The Centre Party has strongly supported and is currently in favour of Estonia's membership of the European Union in all its basic documents and programmes. This intimidation, I must acknowledge you and say that the Reform Party has done so well, it makes no sense to go on. What you are doing will not give us more credibility in the international arena, and it will cast a shadow on Estonia's good name. I don't think you will ever feel it, like Jüri Ratas, as head of the Centre Party, would have taken any steps to get Estonia out of the European Union. It is true that I am taking steps, but only in order for Estonia to remain in the European Union. As I said to the previous questioner, Estonia must remain in this European Union very strongly, which will do more than is necessary in the future. In any case, Estonia wants to do more. Now I'm talking about e-topics. I understand you want to equalize the whole e-topic with this one issue, or e-elections, but that's just one aspect of it. Is it my wish to lose the e-elections? No, it's not my wish to lose the e-elections. The Centre Party has talked about the need for e-elections to be as secure as possible and more to contribute to their security. I do not think that you, the honourable Member of the Riigikogu, Kalle Palling, are arguing that e-elections must be made even more secure so that no cyber attacker can hack into our e-election system. I think it's been one of my party associates' thoughts when they've talked about e-elections. You have no reason to fear, because of the current government, e-elections will not go away.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U16	Madis Milling.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation. I am pleased to hear that security is one of Estonia's priorities. The Prime Minister's party, one of the leading politicians of the Central Party, Yana Toom, a member of the Euro Parliament, is known for his anti-NATO positions and speeches. Yana Toom has strongly said that as a parallel structure of NATO, an army of the European Union could be created. In this light, how credible will the views of Estonia as President-in-Office have on stronger security, and what is the opinion of the Prime Minister on the creation of an army of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U18	Thank you. No, I don't think Europe needs a separate army. I do not think that the European Union and NATO should be competitors in the field of defence. On the contrary, I believe that the European Union and NATO can contribute more effectively and better to defence policy only in cooperation. The first European Council, in which I personally participated, took place in mid-December last year. There was also a presentation by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. I honestly say that the content of this report, as well as the fact that NATO and the European Union have agreed on several dozen very concrete steps to cooperate in defence policy, encourages me, it strongly encourages me. I think that all this has also been the reason why the European Union has said that enhanced defence cooperation within the European Union through PESCO is important. No, I do not support the creation of a separate army by the European Union. I don't think it makes any sense. It would be a duplication. Moreover, the very many Member States of both Unions belong both to NATO and to the European Union. As regards Yana Toomi, whom you asked about, a Member of the European Parliament will certainly go to the European Union Affairs Committee. You can ask him all these questions in the Committee on European Union Affairs. As far as I know, MEPs go there, and I think that is good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U19	Please, Monika Hawkhammer!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U20	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! In March of this year, European Commission leader Juncker presented the White Paper on the future of the European Union and the five scenarios described there. These five scenarios will help to look at the future situation of the European Union. This situation depends on what choices we are going to make, also on what choices we are going to make as President-in-Office. These five scenarios are: 'The same way forward', 'The single single market', 'Whoever wants more will do more', 'Let's do less, but better' and 'Let's do much more together'. What is your position as Prime Minister for the future Presidency, which path should Europe take?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U21	Thank you. I think it is very positive that the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, came up early this year with a so-called white paper. This white paper or these five scenarios came out, as we know, before the signing of the Rome Declaration took place. Let it be said that the Roman Declaration and Juncker, let's say, the white paper are not linked. They were also kept apart by the Council. It is known that these scenarios are currently being discussed and that they will go on during the Estonian Presidency in the autumn, that is true. I think that today no one is ready to say what particular scenario we are choosing. Maybe it's based on a scenario with something from one scenario and something from another. But in general Estonia's position as chairman is that the European Union is united, the European Union is strong, the European Union is a functioning organisation and it would be good if there were no further departure from the European Union. As I said before in answering one question about Estonia, this does not directly concern the Presidency; Estonia has always wanted to do more in the European Union; Estonia has always wanted to be at the heart and core of Europe, and this is the case today.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U22	Liina Kersna, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister! I was very pleased to hear that you too have come to realize that our IT-mainstream is so strong that we are expected to build a digital Europe within six months and that our enthusiasm on these issues is well known to everyone. As you said, the questions of the hesitants must be answered convincingly. In Estonia, your government has shown neither persuasion nor enthusiasm on digital issues. I am particularly concerned by the autumn when a conference on digital topics is held in Estonia and local elections are due to take place, which will certainly provide a good platform for discussing digital topics within Estonia. Can you meet these very high international expectations on digital issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U24	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for not having gone along with the reform party's flagrant attack on today's debate on a very important national issue, and you have not only brought in an internal political dimension. You were much more balanced with your question, so I want to thank you for that. I hope you can't upset your party for that now. But no, I don't think I've only recently understood the positivity of the image of information technology. In order to understand the seed that Estonia has always been innovative in information technology, I was able to learn from Tallinn University of Technology. So this understanding has lasted at least the last 16 to 17 years. When it comes to the internal policy you asked about and the autumn summit on information technology, I say that we can be quite proud of certain steps. This morning, I had a meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister of Slovakia, where the last mile was also discussed, for example, in order to better cover Estonia with a high-speed Internet connection. It was also known that one of the priorities of the current government when a coalition agreement was made and strategic investments were put in place, precisely that more investment is needed in high-speed internet connections. We will invest 10 million and 10 million in the next two years, a total of 20 million. This is one concrete step towards making it possible for people to work more in teleworking and home office if they so wish. This principle also coincides with our priorities during the Presidency. It is true that this mobile work is gaining more and more popularity, so this opportunity and ability should also develop in Estonia. I understand the background to this issue, it relates to e-elections. I think I will say, not for the second or third time, but soon for the 30th or 40th time: the current government has said that we want to make e-elections safer, we have said that we will not lose the e-elections, we have said that if we make changes in e-elections, these elections must be similar to pre-elections in order to better guarantee the principle of the uniformity of elections. There is no danger that the current government will lose its e-elections in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U25	Urmas Kruuse.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Prime Minister! I listened carefully to your speech and was puzzled. That is why I went back to reading the text and reading it. Is it true that the common agricultural policy is not a government priority during the Presidency? I've read your text. The only place where agriculture is referred to is the British saying that it is no longer worth weeping because of the spilled milk you mentioned. Is what you have said to Estonian society that you are facing a farmer now forgotten? Not to mention that discussions on the CAP 2020+ have begun and we must be very active in them. Why did the Prime Minister not mention the common agricultural policy in his presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U27	Thank you. No, I'm sure it's not forgotten. That was point one. Point two, I think we are not only facing but also acting towards the Estonian people. As a former Minister for Industry, you certainly know how difficult these domestic discussions have been on this issue. The European Union, for example, gives Member States the opportunity to pay top-up grants so that competition is more equal, but as far as I know, Estonia has not done so for the last 3 to 4 years. He has not done so because, after all, the government at the time could not find a compromise or did not want it. You know that the top-up grants are now in the state budget. As you said, we are facing the people, in that sense you are right. Yeah, we're definitely facing the farmer. We pay top-up grants and do it at a maximum rate. That will exists in the current government. In answer to your question of whether we have forgotten about the common agricultural policy, I will say that we have not forgotten this under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U28	Please, Heidy Purga!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U29	Thank you, President-in-Office. Thank you, Prime Minister. My question, too, is about an area that you have already talked about several times today. But maybe my questions will help you find a more specific angle. In the Committee on Culture, we have discussed the issues covered by the Ministry of Culture in connection with the Presidency. As you yourself mentioned in your speech, one of their focus is the digital market and digital services. As a young person, this area is very important in Estonia and Europe. What kind of signal do you think we're sending out if your party is the loudest in favour of shortening e-elections? I will also ask you this by continuing on the question of Liina Kersna, because I am sure that, since there will be only three weeks between the digital conference to be held during the Presidency and the municipal elections, this topic will be raised again, placed in focus and coming up hard on the agenda. What is your party's message at this point, and how do you intend to explain to your colleagues that e-elections are credible? Do you think we can talk crediblely about other things if we can undermine our own strength in this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U30	Thank you. We will certainly be able to talk crediblely about the rest of Europe on digital issues with our colleagues. I think, a good questioner, that your group would not be running off the sidelines, and I do not think it would be a bad tone to ask digital issues to speak here by the Vice-President of the European Commission, who is involved in this area. After all, the Vice-President is from our country, namely Andrus Ansip, who, in my opinion, is doing very well on this subject. I would not undermine the basics of the Vice-President of the digital field, speaking as if Estonia were dealing badly with these issues in its domestic policy, as was the case with your question. I only recently met him when the government met the European Commission at large in Brussels. He was doing a report there. I think that the members of both the Commission and the Estonian Government took this presentation very seriously and considered it very credible. I do not see that this topic is somehow under our feet, say, undermining or that this topic is not important in Estonia's opinion. It's important, and I think we've dealt with it in essence. I think we've achieved quite a lot. But really, maybe this meeting would also give your group a better picture. On the e-elections, I repeat, the current government will not lose its e-elections. We really want to make them safer. I think looking at how much we see cyber attacks in our immediate vicinity and around the world, making e-elections safer should not be ridiculed at all. On the contrary, there must be a contribution and it must be dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U31	Keit Pentus-Rosimannus asks a one-minute question. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U32	Thank you, President-in-Office. That's how well you know. A good fellow European! In your speech, many basics were overstated. You mentioned, among other things, in one paragraph how the European Union is currently experiencing a political crisis that needs a solution, asking for well-considered answers, etc. What I did not hear very much were the answers that Estonia would then offer. One of the issues that, unfortunately, you did not address in your speech is the debate on the future of the European Union. Juncker has proposed five possible scenarios for the future development of the European Union. One of these scenarios is likely to have to be chosen. What is your vision of the future of Europe as Prime Minister of the future Presidency? Which of these five scenarios do you think is most appropriate for the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U33	Thank you. I don't think today is the time to pick one out of these five scenarios. As I said earlier, it is not at all excluded that there will be another six or seven scenarios involving several scenarios. That was point one. Point two, on the subject of the future of the European Union, I think, is the most time devoted to recent summits and Councils. I think that the 27 Member States gave a very strong message about the future of the European Union at the Capitol in Rome, where the Treaty of Rome was signed 60 years ago and where the Roman Declaration was now signed. This declaration is certainly forward-looking. The second issue I will mention is that the European Union has agreed that the scenario for the future of these 27 countries and Great Britain will be discussed once agreement has been reached in the first step, when agreement has been reached, what legal protection will be for people and companies, and what will be the exit bill for Britain. If you mean this angle, I can say that it will only be discussed once the first step has been agreed with the negotiators. Of course, it will also be brought to the Council before the Heads of State or Government, but every day a representative of the European Commission deals with this issue. What is my vision of the future of Europe? My vision has already been expressed several times today. This vision is this: it is important that no more leave Europe. This is the vision: Europe is moving forward with its various activities and policies, including the Eastern Partnership. These are the issues in which Europe has actually been very strong. This may seem strange in 2017, but this is the case in the current difficult situation. I think that every President-in-Office must ensure the same thing that I mentioned and which I think is pretty well written in the Estonian motto: unity through balance. This unity is really much needed in the European Union today. It must be sought and found, it must be worked for the European Union to be strong, working, working and united. This is Estonia's vision.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U34	Hanno Pevkur.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U35	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! I am pleased to hear that, as Chairman of the Centre Party, you have changed the Central Party's understanding of Europe. In 2004, the Centre Party did not want to join the European Union, but now we want to move forward together. That's better. As far as domestic policy is concerned in this debate, it is inevitably the case that our internal policy also affects the Presidency of the European Union. The topics mentioned by Andres Herkel are also the ones that give the tone. I would like to ask very much, but since we do not have time for this debate, I will focus on one fundamental issue. It's a matter of migration. What is Estonia's position on migration? I am asking for a very simple reason: in September 2017, it will be two years since the Member States of the European Union agreed on the deadline for implementing the migration plan. What is Estonia's proposal for progress for Europe and the European Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U36	Thank you. First of all, I'm gonna take down the Centre Party. It wasn't in 2004. If you're Googled, look closely. You spoke about the 2003 Central Party Congress, which took place in August. There was indeed a vote on whether to support the European Union or to say no to the European Union, there was also the opportunity to abstain. The Centre Party has never said no to the accession of the European Union. 40% said no at this congress, the rest, almost 60% either supported the accession to the European Union or abstained. Thus, the Centre Party has never been dominated by Eurosceptics. I remember that one of your party's candidates for the European Parliament elections was just using Euroscepticism. However, I will certainly never say that the Reform Party is therefore against the European Union, because some of your very respectable and important members have taken that view. Now I'm talking about migration. The truth is that this hope was hoped for in the migration policy, which is still on the table, is how real it is to agree on the Malta Presidency or finally. Last December, there was still hope that this agreement would be concluded in June of this year when Malta holds the Presidency. It can now be said that it will hardly be the final agreement. Migration policy before Estonia's Presidency will work on and definitely go on with this issue. You asked what Estonia's position was. Estonia's position has been that we attach great importance to solidarity in Europe, and we certainly stand for it, not only in our words but also in our actions. I think that the line that Estonia has chosen in migration policy is that we want to meet people who come here and do interviews to find out what they want. I think we're gonna have to keep this line anyway. As Prime Minister of the Presidency, I think that the agreements that have produced a very good result in migration policy, for example, in terms of the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, are certainly important. I believe that the efforts made by Italy and Libya are important. These are the topics that Estonia will certainly deal with during its Presidency.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U37	Please, Krista Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U38	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! R &amp; D and innovation have been particularly emphasised in all European documents, as well as in programming documents, as there is a great opportunity for progress in these areas and for success across Europe. What is the place of R &amp; D and innovation issues during the Estonian Presidency? I have read the text of your speech and listened carefully to you, but I have to say with sadness that these areas were not emphasised at all. I have to admit it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U39	Thank you. Do not admit as a mistake that research has been mentioned very strongly in the priorities of our Presidency. It is written in the programme of our Presidency, and a pretty important part is devoted to it, be it the Science Facility or Horizon 2020. In the mid-term evaluation, Estonia wishes to launch a discussion on how to simplify the system of cooperation initiatives funded by the European Union's Framework Programme and support the participation of new partners. This is certainly an important part of our Presidency's programme. A working version of the Presidency programme is currently in place, the government plans to adopt it at the end of June, and then we will also forward this document to the honourable Riigikogu. There's definitely a theme there, it's in there even as a priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U40	Henn Põllamaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U41	Thank you. I would like to say, to continue with the previous question, that there is nothing to be ashamed of in Euroscepticism, that everything must be taken with reason, that every foolishness cannot be accepted without criticism. Keep going! Keep going! But I was left with the claim that it is now much harder for immigrants to come from Libya to Europe than before. However, they have already come from there much more this year than at the same time last year. Frontex, EUNAVFOR Med and a number of aid organisations bring these'maritime victims' and refugees from coastal waters in Africa to Europe. It has now become apparent that a large number of relief organisations, as well as refugee camps in Italy, are under the control of the mob, making huge money. Obviously, this money has reached the Italian Government, perhaps also the higher spheres of Europe, which is why nothing is being done. How can we prevent this process from happening?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U42	Thank you. First of all, I wouldn't look at this whole thing in the black tones you described here. What's to stop? I think that the European Union has taken very strong and concrete steps over the last two and a half years. These steps have come out of such forms of office meetings, and they have actually gone to the landscape or nature. This, on the one hand, means protecting and strengthening the borders of the European Union. On the other hand, the European Union has always considered it important, let us say, to have a policy towards Africa, to support these countries, to find ways that people should not flee their homes. Thirdly, I have already said that there has really been progress in the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. There are quite a number of trends where there has been real action in the last two years and where concrete results have been achieved. From the very beginning of your question, whether or not euroscepticism, I think that research is the best estimate. I have to use a study where there has been such a question that, speaking in general, whether you think the membership of the Estonian state in the European Union is good or bad. It has to be acknowledged that the circa 70% of the Estonian population considered it good. I think this shows the strong support of our population for Estonia's membership of the European Union. I very much hope that all the political groups here in the Riigikogu will hold the value that Estonia has given to the European Union, but also what the European Union has given us.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You said in your presentation that during the Presidency, Estonia's historical role is to make Europe a tangible improvement. You personally have a historic opportunity to direct the European Union's processes for half a year. You even started to learn English for that. That is why you added such an exclamation to your presentation: It was the economy, stupid! I don't know who it was meant for. But for history, I ask you what you personally, as a politician, consider to be the most important thing that should be made tangiblely better in the European Union during this six months.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U44	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U45	Thank you. The key message that the European Union has given must be kept, i.e. the message of peace. It's the most tangible, I think. If you're asking about my studies, I think it's always good to learn the language. I also recommend that you learn different languages, which always gives you something more. No, I did not learn English because the Estonian Presidency is approaching. The sentence that was included in this text was not related to my English studies.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U46	Eerik-Niles Kross.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U47	Good manager! Good Prime Minister! Thank God, however, your speech also contained a section on Russia's activities in Ukraine, but you did not touch on quite a number of issues that have so far been Estonia's priorities. You did not touch on the perspective of the enlargement of the European Union. You said that the Eastern Partners should feel the support of the European Union, but that was all. You did not mention the need to end Russia's aggression against one of the partner countries as a priority in Estonia; you did not touch on the question of Turkey; you said that our priority is to support Mogherin, which I think is not enough. You did not mention the protection of human rights and of the European value area, or at all the protection of European values in the European Union's neighbourhood; you did not discuss values at all as such. Are these issues no longer Estonia's priorities in the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U48	Thank you. When you say I wasn't talking about values, it seems to me that you just didn't listen to my speech. All I thought was European values. You asked about enlargement. No, Europe has not closed the issue of enlargement, on the contrary, the Rome Declaration also states that the European Union will continue to give and continue to work towards enlargement. Enlargement has not been taken off the agenda in the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U49	Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U50	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister! Andres Herkel read a list of the disgraces of your government and asked what you could be proud of during the Estonian Presidency. You only extended this list with a Prime Minister who does not know and does not want to answer the questions, because there were no specific answers. But I'll ask you a more specific question. When I was the Minister of Finance, Estonia could be proud to comply with the rules and demand stricter rules. The positions of the Minister of Finance were equally clear and specific. I was asked to speak from time to time on the grounds that you could say and demand. I was asked to speak, which I did anyway. What is Sven Sester doing in ECOFIN and the Eurogroup? What does he have to say after you've broken the rules that were developed in my day?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U51	Thank you. First of all, I have to apologize to the diplomatic corps. I cannot relate this answer to the Presidency of the European Union, but to Estonia's internal policy. I think, Mr Ligi, that the role of the Minister of Finance and the Government is to find solutions to the issues that are important in Estonia's life and not always to say no. If the healthcare system is not funded, if this system is unsustainable, then a responsible government must find a solution. The current government has found a solution. If the pension system is not sustainable, then the rope cannot simply be dragged, but a solution must be found. This solution has been found. If the problem is that in Estonia, people with low and medium wages earn too little, then a solution must be found. This solution has been found through an increase in the tax-free minimum. If many international organisations and Eesti Pank say that there is a need to invest in Estonia, then a solution must be found. A solution has been found through strategic investments. Yes, taking care of Estonian people's health and reducing treatment queues, reforming the pension system, higher incomes for people receiving low and average wages, and strategic investments require money. The government has found these possibilities. I only recently read the opinion of a representative of a medical organization who said: 'This decision was a historic decision for the last 15 years. It had not been done so far. " These decisions cannot be made without the need for money. The government has made these decisions. You are talking about budgetary balance. We have foreseen in the country's budget strategy that in 2021 the Estonian budget will be balanced.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U52	Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! You mentioned the diplomatic corps. That is what my question is about, and I am particularly interested in your answer. There are no middle parties among the questioners. When I look at who will speak on behalf of the Centre Party Group about the priorities of the Presidency of the European Union and the next six months, I see that this is Oudekki Loone. As Chairman of the Centre Party, please give your assessment of how this will affect the public, the people of Europe and also Estonia, when the main speaker on behalf of the party of the Prime Minister is the person who only a week ago denied the bombing of Tallinn by the Red Coupons and called the occupation into question at all!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U54	Thank you. I think Oudekki Loone is a very capable member of the Riigikogu, I am absolutely convinced that he is a good member of the European Union Affairs Commission, by the way, he is on the same committee as you are. He can do well to represent a party if he speaks on behalf of a group in this negotiation. I do not question in any way the competence of any member of the Riigikogu who has obtained a mandate from the Estonian people and has taken an oath of office before the Riigikogu here. I have a request: do not question it either.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U55	Please, I beg you, Hatter!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U56	Thank you, good vice chairman. Good Prime Minister! In your speech, you pointed out that on 24 November an Eastern Partnership summit was scheduled to be held, where tangible results should be offered to partner countries, their citizens and businesses. Would you like to introduce our starting points at this summit so that the Eastern Partnership countries can really feel Europe's support? Personally, I am interested in the subject of Ukraine, because this conflict of value is too long and Ukraine is actually waiting for help. What are the mechanisms that could help Ukrainians resolve this conflict, for example, I am thinking of Estonia's recommendations on preventing corruption?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U57	Thank you. That is a very legitimate question. After all, this was also one of the reasons why, even during the previous government, a decision was made that the Eastern Partnership Summit could take place this time in Brussels. I think that this is also a signically strong decision and will provide an opportunity to address this very important subject area more seriously and widely. If you are asking about these six countries and what concrete steps could be taken, I think we need to look once at the Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre. The five or six people who provide assistance to the Eastern partners every day certainly deserve very much recognition. What has this specific assistance been, for example, given by the Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre? I guess it's different from country to country. This aid has been what these countries have wanted. You asked about Ukraine. I know that seminars, conferences and exchanges have taken place on issues such as civil society and local authorities. For example, Azerbaijan has asked to share Estonia's experiences through the competence centre of top managers. Georgia has been asked to share our experiences on how to train journalists in regional publications. These have been, in my opinion, very specific requests from these Eastern Partnership countries. The Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre has been a very good partner here. I know that Belarus has asked our centre for help in passing on the experience of the census. This is the specific aid that Estonia has provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U58	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! You mentioned the European Fund for Strategic Investments in your presentation. This is quite an important issue, because Member States can really apply this fund for strategic objectives to promote investment and thus growth. The Estonian government is also planning strategic investments from domestic resources, but there is no ambition, as much as there is, this increase is so small that it is even lagging behind the increase in the overall budget volume. In fact, in order to leverage the economy, Estonia itself should be more active in applying for investment from the European Fund for Strategic Investments. For example, money has been received from the airport for the extension of the airport. But I wonder what the government's priorities and objectives are with regard to the Presidency and the Strategic Investment Fund. As we know, this extension decision has already been taken before our Presidency. But what is our goal in relation to the activities of this fund, whether to increase capacity or to change conditions? This is a very important issue for promoting growth in Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U60	Thank you. I think in the discussions that we have held here in the last few months, Mr Sõerd, we have, I think, found a common language in this sense. I have always tried to justify that these strategic investments are necessary. You said they were really necessary, too. You were even a little critical of why we do so little of these strategic investments, because Estonia could do more of them. This is where the budget balance rule comes in. We cannot let Estonia's budget down in this way and start living at the expense of the future. I am basically always in favour of investments, but I also call on you to look at it a little more balanced, we cannot let the budget down in the future. But I thank you because the discussions in Question Time or our other conversations have led to a common understanding. It is true that the same strategic investment fund is good practice for the Member States on the European side, I think. I guess the government thought of the same good practice. In my opinion, the trends in Europe and Estonia in the start-up of the economy go hand in hand here. It is true that the European economic signs show a very strong positive message: in the last period, the economies of all the Member States of the European Union have grown and, in recent years, very, very many new jobs have been created in Europe. This is, in fact, the value that the European Union has given to its Member States very economically. If you are asking what major projects in Estonia could be when talking about European investments, we have said so. Two major projects are, one is Rail Baltic, where Estonia wants support from the European Union, and the other is desynchronous. Estonia has taken a decision to de-sync itself from the Russian Federation and is debating which direction to de-sync. The meeting of the Prime Ministers of the Baltic States and Poland was held in Tallinn weeks ago. We have agreed in principle that, by the end of this year, we will have to find out whether desynchronousisation is possible and propose a common vision on this. But I really do thank you again. In my opinion, this discussion, especially in view of your strong background in the financial world, in which we have reached a common position on strategic investments, shows that there is truth in disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U61	Lauri Luik.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U62	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! Your speech passed through the subject of the former attitude of the Centre Party against the European Union. Just in the interests of the verbatim report, I would like to mention that the results of the 2003 congress vote were actually a little different from what might have been the impression here. There were 235 votes in favour, 341 abstentions and 227 abstentions. Let's just mention it for the sake of the verbatim. But the question concerns what you mentioned in your speech. I quote: 'Enterprises arise and are successful if their operating environment is simple, predictable and supportive. ' Tomorrow, there will be a whole series of tax changes in this hall, which certainly have not been predictable for long and which will not support businesses either. How do you comment on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U63	Thank you. It's very good that you have a good history and you got this important addition to the verbatim. After all, the government does not put the Riigikogu on the agenda, it is proposed by permanent committees and ultimately the Board of the Riigikogu decides. I am not very good at linking the Presidency of the European Union to the agenda of the Riigikogu tomorrow, but if a member of the Riigikogu asks for this, it is certainly a worthwhile topic to be discussed here. When talking about the principles of the Estonian Presidency in the field of entrepreneurship, we think, for example, that if a company is created and its owner wants to transfer it to another country for some reason, this should not mean that he will stop operating the company and start from scratch in another country. We really want to achieve, during the Estonian Presidency, that such a transition can take place without terminating the company. I think that within the European Union, it is important that the history, activities, etc. of this company be preserved. Very many topics in business relate to e-books and various e-services in general, including VAT, which certainly concerns entrepreneurship. I am currently trying to link the issue of entrepreneurship to the Presidency of the European Union, and finally I will come to your question, which is related to the Riigikogu's agenda tomorrow. Estonia will certainly keep the topic of entrepreneurship strongly focused. Entrepreneurship is one of our priorities and even the most important priority. We say that an open and innovative Europe is important to us. I think that during the Estonian Presidency, it is also important to move forward with a number of free trade agreements. Estonia certainly considers this issue to be important as the Presidency of the European Union. We need to move forward with the current agreements, and it is quite a desire to start working on new free trade agreements, be they the countries with which they are to be concluded, either New Zealand or Australia. When a free trade agreement with Japan is concluded during the Estonian Presidency, it is a big deal. I believe that this threshold, which is on the road to the conclusion of a free trade agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, will soon be resolved in the Netherlands and this agreement will move forward. So I think you have the right theme setting when you ask what Estonia wants to do in the economic and business environment. Now I come to your agenda tomorrow, as much as the representative of the Government of the Republic can say something to the members of the Riigikogu on this subject. But when a question is asked, you have to answer. I think we need to look at the whole picture. Today, looking at the full picture of tax and economic policy, the government is strong. You did not ask whether or not these changes should be supported, my opinion is that you could support them. If we are able to implement such an economic model, I think it means that the treatment queues in Estonia will decrease and people will get to the doctor faster. This also means that we can make certain strategic investments. I'm just going to give you a completely random example. Harjumaa and Raplamaa or, let's say, North-Estonia's connection to West-Estonia has been a problem in my opinion. I think we should take a step forward here. I hope I remember correctly that one of the largest support groups in the Riigikogu has been the support group that has asked for the restoration of the Tallinn railway. Without the strategic investments of today's government, it would be like talking to deaf ears, but we can now see that it has been allocated 8 million for the first stage of 2018 to the Rice Family-Turba section, which is 6.3 to 6.4 kilometres. I can't tell if you, Mr. Lauri Luik, support it or not, I understand your inner dilemma. But actually, I think in your heart you think it's right. Merging Estonia is also important within the framework of the Estonian Presidency, as we look at Estonia joining with Rail Baltic, for example. Train traffic, I think, is environmentally friendly in any case, it's safer. For example, Rail Baltic takes a lot of trucks off the roads between Tallinn and Pärnu. 50 trucks equals one freight train. This is a major step that we are doing for road safety. If you ask again whether it would be worth supporting these changes in terms of entrepreneurship, I will say that in any case. I think we've broken the dogma that we're not making any exceptions. We are actually making exceptions. Take, for example, the maritime domain. We are a sea state, we have a high sea culture, we have 2000 islands and rags, we are proud of it, but there are no cargo ships under the Estonian flag. This is not the way forward; these opportunities must be created for the Estonian private sector. The current government will create them, and this will certainly lead to jobs coming to Estonia. I will mention the same Fitch that assessed Estonia's financial and fiscal policy. He made it clear that Estonia must make investments, that is important. Eesti Pank has also said that Estonia needs to invest. You touched on a question that I did not intend to talk about in the context of the Estonian Presidency. If you try to bring this domestic policy issue into the focus of the Estonian Presidency, there is nothing to be done, it must be said that international conferences are passing by Estonia. We don't have a big international conference center. It is not when tears are shed in the Riigikogu or in the House of Stenbock and only weeping, it does not move on. Solutions must be found, there must be the same unity and cooperation. Here we need cooperation between the state and the capital, which has not been very good in recent years. Now the state and capital together have said that one international conference centre is really wanted to be established in Estonia. At the seaside, in a beautiful place, Tallinn city hall is cleaned up. I thank you for raising this issue. I think the people of Estonia will win, our economic environment will improve significantly and our investment capacity will increase. My opinion is that the proposals that the Riigikogu will discuss tomorrow are good proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U64	There is still time to ask one question. Javier's outfit.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U65	Thank you. Prime Minister! I come back to European issues. I don't think we have to get to that one house in the Riigikogu in every debate you're doing. On this occasion, I really congratulate you, this one house is definitely a very big deal. But I think that your statements today have been far more European than those of your party chairman in 2003. Therefore, I find it strange that Oudekki Loone, who did not celebrate Europe Day on 9 May, became your party's spokesperson. But I guess that's up to you. On my question, I will allow you to shine, and this question is genuinely benevolent. In fact, each driver also needs to set goals. You did not say today what the drafts or policies should be, which must reach the finish or the result, so that you, or all of us, can proudly say that the Estonian Presidency has been successful. What are the policies you want to take to the finish line?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U66	Thank you. I thank you for this pleasant comment, it will certainly cheer you up! I have always wanted to hold today's debate within the framework of the Estonian Presidency and priorities. There is nothing to do, 90% of the questions from Reform Party members have been from the domestic policy field, have gone into history up to 14 years ago, and the Prime Minister has had to answer these questions. I do not understand why you are attacking a member of the Riigikogu and your good fellow official. If, in the past, it has been the case that the Prime Ministers say in advance to the group who will speak in the negotiations, that is not the case today. The Prime Minister will certainly not interfere with the work of the Group. Once again, Oudekki Loone is a very good waitress and a member of the Committee on European Union Affairs. In replying briefly to your question, I say that as many things as possible need to get to the finish line. I think that it is also of great value for us to be able to put certain important areas on the table so strongly during our Presidency that it is clear that they will not fall down and reach the finish either during the Bulgarian or Austrian Presidency. Personally, I wish there really was a change in the digital field, I really wish there was a change. I sincerely think that if we can say during our Presidency that Europe has reached the point that we must also talk about the fifth freedom, not only to talk about it, but also to record it in documents, it is a great value. I think it would be very valuable if we could move forward with free trade agreements. These are positive things. When it comes to difficult issues, it is important to say that, if we do not want to do so, we must move forward on the issue of migration. We know that there are very different approaches to resolving this issue. If Estonia can bring these views together more on the central floor here, this is a very high value. In short, moving forward with our priorities and the more they reach the finish, the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U67	Prime Minister, the time for the round of questions and answers has come to an end. I invite Toomas Vitsut, Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs, to present a speech chair in the Riigikogu. Just in case, I would remind you that today's topic of discussion is the priorities of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U68	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Dear guests and colleagues, It is a great honour for me to stand before you here today in the role of Chairman of the Committee on European Union Affairs to speak about the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In less than two months, Estonia will have a duty to assume greater responsibility for European Union matters than we have so far been accustomed to bearing. In the coming six months, we will have to be able to find solutions to get the negotiations out of the impasse. In doing so, we must bear in mind the need to maintain a balance in relations between both the Member States and the institutions of the European Union. The Presidency's task is to maintain the unity of the European Union. However, it is not just a responsibility to hold the Presidency of the European Union, it is also an opportunity. During the Presidency, the existing contact network must be increased both in other Member States and in the institutions of the European Union. The Presidency will allow us to make our own emphasis, thereby highlighting Estonia's more substantial contribution to shaping the future of the European Union. By accepting visitors to Estonia, we have the opportunity to introduce our country and its active citizens. The head of Tesla, Elon Musk, has said that starting one venture is like baking a cake, all you need is the right amount of substances. We also need to think about what the right substances we need for the success of the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union should be. Ladies and gentlemen, In preparing for the Presidency, we must first think about what our own citizens expect of us. At the end of last year, the Eurobarometer carried out a survey in all EU countries and asked the citizens of the European Union what they considered the European Union's greatest problems. The responses revealed that the biggest problem Europeans find is unemployment, then social inequality and then the problem of migratory pressure. Security and terrorism-related threats were identified as a fourth problem. This shows that we are doing the right thing when we focus our Presidency programme on the economic and labour market and security and defence issues of the European Union. Therefore, all the steps that, as President-in-Office, we are helping businesses to operate more smoothly in the common market in the European Union and create more jobs are welcome among the citizens of the European Union. The creation of fast transport connections to enable people to reach their jobs, the development of more cost-effective energy systems to reduce energy costs, and the use of the resource released in R &amp; D, for example, have exactly this objective. It is the task of the Estonian Presidency to manage the steps necessary for the completion of the single market. Not only is freedom of movement important, but also the movement of goods, services, capital and people is important. A more precise development of the common European Union defence policy will enhance Member States' defence cooperation and capabilities and will be essential for creating a sense of security. Cooperation has created peace in the continent of Europe and we can talk about the European Union as a peace project. However, President Barack Obama of the United States has said that peace is not just about the absence of a visible conflict. In today's globalizing world, no conflict is so distant that it does not affect our sense of security and security in the wider world. The outbreak of war in Syria and the arrival of refugees in Europe brought this message home to us. We have few levers in the European Union to influence what is happening in Syria, but in order to eliminate such risks, we must participate in the peace process and, even with small steps, move towards ending the war. Instability and conflicts in North Africa have been transferred to Europe as a problem in the form of a migration problem. No one would leave their home if it were safe to have a job and enough freedom to act. The European Union needs closer partnerships with many African countries so that it can improve people's working and living conditions on the ground, so that this will hinder the citizens of these countries' desire to move away from home to look for well-being. Without solving the problems in Africa on the ground, the problems of migration in the European Union will not be solved. The efforts of the current President-in-Office of Malta to support Libya's efforts to cut down the human smuggling networks that send refugees to the dangerous Mediterranean are worth a great deal of recognition. Malta, although the smallest country in the European Union, has been inspiring to assist Libya in the European Union for all the other members of the European Union. Already today, it can be said that the small Maltese Presidency has done a good job. A small country knows the meaning and price of solidarity and is able to use the opportunities of cooperation. Estonia has traditionally been close to the fate of the Eastern Partnership countries and this must also be addressed during our Presidency. A delegation from the Committee on European Union Affairs visited Ukraine at the beginning of the year. Idealism and hope for a better future, which stood out at meetings with representatives of Ukrainian civil society and young people, were inspiring. At the same time, in discussions with the Estonian local community in Ukraine, serious concerns in the Ukrainian health sector, the judicial system, as well as in the business environment emerged. Ukraine needs support and advice from the European Union to move forward with reforms, but it is equally important to be consistent and demanding in the implementation of what has been promised, especially by taking stronger measures to eradicate corruption. However, we must not forget that Ukraine is a country that is trying to reform while at the same time at war. Many people in conflict areas have lost their homes and homelands. Both the European Union and Estonia's views on the possibilities of finding a solution to the conflict have been based on the fact that the key to resolving the conflict is the unconditional fulfilment of the Minsk agreements. Good listeners! Since its accession to the European Union, Estonia has had a consensus and a spirit of cooperation on European Union affairs. During the negotiations, we have always considered the 'one country one position' principle to be important. In other words, we will have discussions at home and the government will ensure that Parliament is actively involved in shaping policy towards the European Union, both in the Council and in the European Council. I confirm from my experience, having previously been in opposition and now being a coalition politician, that the Estonian governments have always respected the role of parliament in decisions on European Union matters, and the Riigikogu has considered it important to give the government sufficient freedom of negotiation at European Union level to confirm positions. During the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, close cooperation between Parliament and the government is more important than usual. During the Presidency, Estonia needs mutual understanding and balance in European Union affairs. This peace of home guarantees stability for the government in the work of the Presidency of the European Union. The success of Estonia's first Presidency of the European Union is ultimately a matter of the reputation of the entire Estonian state. During the Presidency, the cooperation between the government and the Riigikogu continues at a slightly different pace; it relates both to the slightly changed role of the government and to the additional burden of the Riigikogu itself in the management of parliamentary cooperation of the European Union. During the Presidency, it is important to exchange information about the state of affairs in an operational manner. In order for ministers to be able to attend meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are also prepared to hold meetings through the video bridge between Brussels and Tallinn. The Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union also clearly has a parliamentary dimension. The Riigikogu is responsible for organising five parliamentary conferences during the second half of 2017. During the Presidency, the Riigikogu invites colleagues from the Finance Committees of other European Union parliaments, the Economic Committees, the Foreign Affairs Committees, the National Defence Committees and the European Union Affairs Committees. During the first semester of 2018, the Chairman of the Riigikogu will host his colleagues at the conference of spies in Estonia and the new Head of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu will have the opportunity to accept his colleagues in Estonia. The task of the Riigikogu is to decorate, manage and invite tall guests to these conferences. During the Presidency, we expect some 1,700 Members and officials from other countries of the European Union, the European Parliament and the candidate countries to participate in parliamentary debates in Estonia. Jean-Claude Juncker, President of the European Commission, has repeatedly promised national parliaments that the Commissioners of the European Commission will be active in their relations with the parliaments. We are doing everything we can to enable the President of the Commission to keep his promise. Several commissioners have been invited to the Riigikogu conferences as heads of staff and thus involved in discussions. In all the programmes relating to the Presidency of the Riigikogu, topics have been set taking into account both the current topics of the European Union and the strengths of Estonia. In the framework of parliamentary conferences, both central parliamentary levels of the European Union meet. The delegation of the European Parliament shall participate in all conferences. The smooth and friendly cooperation between the two parliamentary levels of the European Union is also one of the key issues of rational political discourse and decisions of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Regarding the Estonian Presidency, it has also been said that this is taking place during a difficult time in the development of the European Union: discussions on the future of the Union, Brexit and several elections calling into question the future perspective of the European Union. However, if the citizens of one Member State have decided to leave the European Union, it must be accepted calmly. Elections in democratic societies are also a very common phenomenon, and at least two or three elections in the European Union are currently being held by the Estonian Presidency in order to keep politicians' minds alert. However, as President-in-Office, we must not allow any important decision to be taken for the reasons listed at European Union level. The problems are always new opportunities. I think that if the issues of the future of the European Union are even in the most existential form of debate in the European countries before the elections, it will be useful for the European Union's substantive development in the long term. The more we dissect in political debates in the European Union, the closer we get to making decisions for every person in the European Union. Looking at the results of the elections in the Netherlands, but also in France, it is clear that the political forces against the European Union are doing their work thoroughly. It is also time for the forces supporting the European Union to pull themselves together and respond equally. It is the national parliaments, or all of us in this Chamber, that play the most important role in justifying decisions taken in the European Union to citizens. In October, local government elections will be held in Estonia; this is an opportunity to talk to our people about European Union issues alongside local circumstances. When will this be done if not during the Estonian Presidency of the European Union? I agree with the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk, that the European Union is not perfect, but yet it is the best instrument that we have together to deal with the problems. We should also emphasise this in our dealings with our citizens. Only by acting together in the European Union can we guarantee the safety of our citizens and have a considerable influence on the international scene. At the same time, we should avoid creating illusions, because it is the uncoverable promises that cause citizens to be disappointed in the European Union. Good fellow countrymen! Finally, I would like to recall one of Murphy's laws. According to Murphy, the time it takes to eat food is inversely proportional to the time it took to make it. The government started preparing the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2012. The government at the time prepared us to eat this food, and now it's almost time to eat it. All this must be done as elegantly as we can. I am convinced that we will be ready for this even six months before the time scheduled for our Presidency. We still need to give the final touch to the programme of our Presidency, which underlines the need to address the challenges facing the European Union's economy, reduce unemployment and ensure the sustainable development of the European Union. We are working on foreign and security policy issues to increase the security of the citizens of the European Union. I wish everyone success, willingness to act and Estonian common sense, both at the negotiating table in Brussels and here in Estonia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U69	The round of questions, which lasts half an hour, begins with Jaak Madison.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U70	Thank you, Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good Thomas! I have a question. Maybe you can give your opinion. The debate on the White Paper presented by the European Commission, which presents a possible scenario for the future of the European Union, will certainly fall under the Presidency. In recent days, the wish of the new French President, Emmanuel Macron, to open the treaties of the European Union has also been heard more actively. This was accepted or approved by German Chancellor Angela Merkel. At the same time, opening up the Treaties means a fundamental change for the European Union. Macron's speeches have been very federalist; they have shown a desire to centralise power, for example, he has wanted a finance minister. What is your personal opinion on whether it would be reasonable to open up the Treaties or whether it could jeopardise the stability of the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U71	Thank you for your question. First of all, I consider the creation of a longer-term perspective for the development of both individual countries and the European Union as a whole to be very important. I thought this was important even before I came to the Riigikogu and here I started dealing with these issues, working in the city of Tallinn. On many issues, I tried to create a longer view of the city's development. There are five scenarios in the White Paper, but Juncker himself has probably not been very attached to them either. We can actually view this as a scale whose one edge means greater centralisation, and the other is rather a backward view of this period when the European Union came into existence and was more like a trade union. It is very difficult to predict which way the scenario of the future is going. Yes, as you pointed out, the German and French leaders are discussing the tendency to centralise this scale. It must have its own good and bad side. Perhaps it is useful to centralise some things and move towards greater centralisation in some areas. When we think about national budgetary discipline, it is clear that there have been problems for quite a long time, that different solutions have been sought here and that a number of measures have been proposed. We'll see if they work or don't work. This is, in itself, such an important question that it cannot be left to run freely; there must be some sort of solution in the end. I do not have an exact view of whether it is better to go towards centralisation or whether it is better to stick jealously to decentralisation. It's the subject of discussion. I do not think that matters need to be resolved, that they must not be left to float and that they should somehow be resolved. It is not the custom of the problems to resolve themselves; the problems must be solved.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U72	Kersti Sarapuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! First of all, I will sort out the subject that Jaak Madison raised, why we didn't ask enough. We have discussed these issues sufficiently in the group, and the main reports are from the Central Party: one is a presentation by the Prime Minister, and the other is a presentation by Toomas Vitsut, Chairman of the ELAK Commission, which is both very meaningful. Of course, we have left more opportunities for others to ask questions in this Chamber, but these questions have not been very meaningful. But here's my question. I would have liked to ask the Prime Minister. You are constantly spying on the European Union and meeting with representatives of other countries. Are the same moods that we experienced in this hall reflected in your communication?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U74	Thank you, Kersti! I fully agree with you that it is not quite appropriate or fair to blame the Centre Party for the fact that we are somewhat superficially or little concerned with the issues of the European Union and the Presidency of the European Union. It really takes a lot of my active time to do this preparatory work. I will meet with many high officials of the European Union from Brussels, but also with ambassadors residing in Estonia, and I will introduce them to our plans. It has always been my custom to ask what they think and what their suggestions are, whether they have any ideas that can be exploited. I dare say that during my term of office, I have not had so much of this time, a little less than six months of meeting almost all ambassadors resident in Estonia, not all but almost everyone. How successful our Presidency is and how smoothly we do all this depends very much on our own contribution. I understand that, as a party, the Centre Party also has to focus largely on the Presidency in the second half of the year, and I dare to assure you that our people are really doing so.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U75	Urmas Kruuse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U76	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! In the Prime Minister's speech, I found the phrase 'baked milk' in the context of the British, but your speech lacked the expressions 'rural life' and 'common European agricultural policy'. It makes me very sad, even a little angry, you might say. How logical is it that the European common agricultural policy, which is one of the European Union's major policies, was not addressed either in the Prime Minister's speech or in your speech describing the priorities of the Presidency? In particular, it must be borne in mind that, at this time, it is also Brexit and a possible reduction in net payments, which will certainly put the financing of the common agricultural policy under pressure. Why was this not said or the views expressed by our farmers themselves? Why isn't that on the agenda?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U77	Thank you for your question. I can confirm what the Prime Minister has already confirmed that this issue has not been forgotten. In fact, on your question, you also referred to the inclusion of this issue among the important issues that are to be discussed. After all, agricultural policy is linked, perhaps even as a matter of priority, to financing and its continuation. As far as discussions are concerned, without any doubt, this will be discussed during the Presidency of the European Union. There are a number of issues in the programme that are not directly mentioned among the priorities, but we will not miss them in the course of the discussions, they will be reflected in any case. I can give an example here, which we also discussed with a high official of the European Union a few days ago. This is gender equality, which, however, is not mentioned in our programme, but I believe that it still comes to be dealt with among other issues and is not excluded in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U78	Tiit Terik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U79	Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Good waitress! You have led the European Union Affairs Commission, as mentioned, for almost half a year and, in the context of this work, you have met a large part of the ambassadors accredited to Estonia, the delegations of other European countries that have visited the Commission and, in the same way, representatives of several organisations. To these meetings, you have also involved other members of the Commission from several political parties. As chairman of the committee, you will probably feel best whether the speeches of some colleagues about their fellow Members in the Riigikogu are the most sensible. I am not even asking for an assessment of who is the greatest and most correct European among us, I am asking what is your assessment of whether we in this House are going to meet the Presidency as a single team.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U80	Thank you for your question. The question contained a reference to Mr Jaak Madison, Vice-Chairman of the European Union Affairs Committee. I can assure you that Jaak Madison and I have very good cooperation. Many meetings and discussions have taken place with him. To be honest, in the course of these meetings and discussions, his sceptical views on the European Union have not developed as contrastingly as they have often been expressed in speeches in this Chamber or in the media. I cannot say for any of my colleagues in the Committee on European Union Affairs that our cooperation is not working. Rather, as chairman of this committee, I feel that we are carrying a cart in one direction and very clearly. Actually, I want to thank my colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U81	Jürgen Ligi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U82	Thank you. Good waitress! I asked the Prime Minister about the European budget rules and about Estonia's attitude towards them. He thought it was only about internal politics and read out a long list of things that needed to be spent on everything. Have you discussed in the party, in the government and in the Commission what will happen in 2021? He specifically said that the budget would then be balanced. Is there no need for a health insurance fund? Is there no need to invest? I would like to point out that I am asking about European rules, and I am asking because in 2021 we will also have a drying of euro money. How do you interpret budgetary rules, the ability to comply with them and their idea in general in the context of the sustainability of public finances?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U83	Thank you. As we know, both ministers and the Prime Minister go to Brussels before they go to discuss matters, to the Committee on European Union Affairs, it could be said that they are reporting. Of course, if they go to Brussels on financial matters, these issues will be discussed in the Committee on European Union Affairs. The Committee on European Union Affairs has in principle taken decisions in a consensual manner. If I recall these discussions, I do not recall that we would have had very large differences of opinion on financial matters or that the mandate given to ministers would somehow differ from the principles agreed in Estonia. Yes, there are certain ideological differences in our country. To put it very simplisticly, the Reform Party has always said that it must not live up to future generations or take over the responsibilities that are going on. As a middle party, I say that we will live at the expense of future generations even if we leave unresolved issues that we could have solved and that we had the opportunity to do. This is the place of discussion and probably also the question of a different outlook. However, as chairman of the committee, I dare say that we have not taken such decisions in the committee, and ministers have also not had positions in Europe that would not have taken budgetary rules into account in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U84	Arno Bridge, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U85	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Prime Minister's views on the priority of agriculture remained, in my opinion, very general. There wasn't any concrete in here. I would like to add to this that the Minister for Rural Affairs went to our committee to present a 12-point topic sheet. Firstly, it contained common agricultural issues, which did not place particular emphasis on priority. Secondly, there was no mention of other problems in rural areas on these points. Now I ask you what you think, how you see agriculture and rural priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U86	By the time of the presidency, 500 thematic pages have been drawn up in ministries in the order of magnitude. It sets out the issues to be dealt with during the Presidency. We cannot think about whether any of the issues that need to be dealt with, we do not like or like, or whether some are less priority than others. As the Presidency, we simply have to deal with them. As regards the rural area and the topic sheet that you have found in the Commission, it still refers to the fact that rural issues have not been excluded or excluded in any way during the Presidency or are not dealt with. They're being dealt with. Which issues are more priority at national level and which are less priority is always a question of choice. Even during the Presidency, as a member of the Commission, you will be able to raise, raise and address in greater depth those issues that you consider more important. This is your right as a member of the Riigikogu, and I would say even an obligation.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U87	Monika Haukanõmm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U88	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! The main responsibility and the main difficulty of working during the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union lies with the Government of the Republic, but the parliamentary dimension is also very important, without doubt. Last week we met with the European Commissioner for Gender Equality and discussed very important issues of gender equality and equal treatment at all, talking about our shameful pay gap, but also about the work of men and women, the burden of care, education, etc. During our Presidency, when it comes to the parliamentary dimension, it is not planned to highlight and raise these issues very clearly. After these discussions, do you have a plan to put these issues on the table, even from your committee's point of view?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U89	Thank you for this question and thank you for highlighting the parliamentary dimension. I would have liked to have talked about it in my speech, but the time was too short and I couldn't handle it. Indeed, during the Presidency, Parliament has a rather important role to play alongside the government, and we have our own responsibility here, we are responsible for organising a number of important events. The European Union Affairs Commission has two events that I want to mark. The first of these will take place at the beginning of July, 9 and 10 July, when the chairs of the European Union Affairs Committees of all the Member States come to Tallinn. We have a focus on entrepreneurship, start-ups and innovation. The reason for this is that Estonia has a clear and sovereign top priority in terms of the number of start-ups per person in Europe. It has been claimed that we are also the world leader, but I have not checked it. At the July event, we are unlikely to be able to address the issue of gender equality in a coherent way, that is true. The next important event for the Committee on European Union Affairs will take place at the end of November, 26. November. This is a plenary session involving European Union Affairs Committees, which is already a longer event and where there are more focus issues. Alongside the digital single market, migration issues and the role of European national parliaments, we also intend to discuss the future of the European Union. This is where I see the possibility that we can also discuss issues that have not been explicitly mentioned anywhere, but which we consider to be important ourselves. This also came up with the Gender Equality Commissioner, and I suggested that we keep this subject in mind when discussing, for example, the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U90	Hatter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U91	Thank you, good Chairman. Good waitress! I also come to Parliament's opportunities offered by the Committee on European Union Affairs. The subject is Ukraine, and it is precisely within the framework of the Eastern Partnership Conference, which will take place on 24 November. The Prime Minister and you stressed that it would be very important for the Minsk agreement to be honoured without concessions. If we were thinking about 24 November, would it not be wise to initiate a public parliamentary position in the European Union Committees, which would remind us of this issue and give a very clear signal about it? Secondly, you went to Ukraine to get to know the situation. Would you highlight a few very specific measures that could help Estonia to strengthen democratic power with its parliament?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U92	Thank you. Among the issues we are dealing with, I did not mention one of the issues that we will address at the end of November, which is the security of the European Union. Security issues are, in fact, dealt with separately in Parliament. I know that this will be dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on National Defence. Would it make sense for the Commission on European Union affairs to take this into account in any other way? I doubt that a bit. I believe that all the proposals you have made are appropriate and will be dealt with in one way or another. Anything else to add? Rather, it is a place of thought, for example, for those Members who organise a conference on security issues. As far as Ukraine's assistance is concerned, yes, the European Union Affairs Committee was there and we met representatives of both MEPs and several non-profit organisations and the people who live there. First of all, the principle position is that Ukraine must be supported. Without support, Ukraine may not come out of its current difficult situation. However, we need to make it clear to ourselves what effective opportunities are to help Ukraine move forward with its own affairs. The Ukrainian Council has adopted a number of laws that were also needed to introduce a visa-free regime with the European Union. In my opinion, the key point is that these laws should also be implemented and implemented, because the law, which is only on paper, does not change anything. Unfortunately, one serious problem we may have noticed when we went there, or rather, what we were told about, is the struggle of the Ukrainian state with corruption. This concerns not only the economy, but also almost all other areas. If there's anything we can do here and talk about it, I think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U93	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U94	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr President, the Committee on European Union Affairs. At the beginning of your speech, you said that in the coming six months we will have to find solutions to get the negotiations out of the impasse. Would you be more detailed and tell me which of the deadlocks in the negotiations are the closest to your heart?
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U95	Thank you for your question. Let me give you a specific example. I cannot say that it is close to my heart, but unfortunately it is a question that we cannot overcome or rescind, which we have to deal with during the Presidency and which we are essentially taking over from Malta. It's a matter of migration. We have, in fact, already taken an active part in this. I myself went to the Pozzallo refugee camp in Italy, or rather, this is the kind of place where refugees are received and distributed within 48 hours. We looked at what was going on there, and before that, we also listened to a very thorough explanation by Italian officials. We had an explanation to be given by all those involved, who in any way were involved in the reception of refugees. But this was the second time that I caught myself thinking that, while very actively and very thoroughly, Italy is doing this perfectly to the reception of refugees, the other side, i.e. looking for solutions to prevent refugees from coming to Europe in this way and in this amount, is weaker. This was one concrete example that I wanted to give you. We will inevitably have to deal with this issue and have a say in it. There is no common understanding of these solutions within the European Union. This question makes a number of countries very emotional. We could have just the role to play in keeping our heads cold and trying to move this debate forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U96	Thank you, Toomas Vitsut! I'm sorry, Peter Ernits and Krista Aru, but the half hour that was meant for questions and answers is long gone. Honourable Riigikogu, before we open negotiations, it is necessary to vote on the procedural proposal made by the Committee on European Union Affairs. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on European Union Affairs to extend the session until the agenda item is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. There are 28 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, no respondents or abstentions. The proposal was supported. Let's start the negotiations. The Committee on European Union Affairs wanted representatives from the political groups to speak first. That's what I'm after. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The establishment of the European Union was the most important geopolitical success of the last century. Countries that were repeatedly at war in the 20th century decided to move forward together in peace, freedom, and economic prosperity 60 years ago. They decided to replace national borders with freedom of movement, free trade in economic protectionism and cooperation between themselves in competition. Let us think for a moment how ambitious and bright the visionaries who set the foundations for European unification were. For Estonia, too, membership of the European Union has been a success story. We are equal at the table, under the leadership of Europe as a whole, and in the second half of this year we will be sitting on this table for the first time in history. The fact that we have the opportunity to discuss the programme of the Estonian Presidency is a very big thing. Let us appreciate it. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin with praise. Having listened to the Prime Minister's speech, I can say that European Union policy is one of the areas where the positions of the Centre Party, or at least the statements, have been positively influenced by the responsibility of the government. The speech was full of beautiful images and sounded very pro-European. Of course, such a Central Party also likes the Reform Party much more than ever the European Critical Centre Party. If only the Centre Party were to follow what Jüri Ratas said today: openness to market economy, innovation, the importance of e-governance! But, of course, this is a completely different subject. In this speech, it was nice to hear the voice of good public officials, both those 318 who have been hired to succeed the Presidency and those hundreds and even thousands who have already served the country in the past. And that's very good. The best specialists in their field must be listened to, and the message they produce is worth conveying. However, since this was a speech by the Prime Minister, not the first official, I would have expected a broader political vision. What is the intellectual contribution that Estonia can make to the debate on the future of the European Union? Which European Union do we want to see in five, ten or twenty-five years? The European Union needs new breathing; the European Union needs new success stories. Estonia has an opportunity and even an obligation to contribute to these discussions. Moreover, our role is to carry these discussions as chairman. Anyone who is familiar with the European Union's decision-making process is well aware that 'Let's break through! ' is absolutely not suited to the style of how things should be done in Europe. 'Let's do it! However, it tends to the other extreme and is just as disastrous and potentially marginalising in Estonia's role. Therefore, I recommend that we focus on European policy, which has the key words 'For water'. ' and 'Inspire! ' '. Estonia has something to inspire Europe with. We have worked hard for this for over 20 years. How should the European Union proceed from a strategic crossroads? Should it do so as a liberal union open to foreign trade and a functioning internal market, or should protectionism be closed to protect yesterday's jobs? How can the European Union contribute to the security of the Member States? Is it right to use a hybrid method or cooperation that leads to a common military structure? What can the European Union do to bring an end to the war in Ukraine and Syria? Of course, the Presidency can also be done without providing answers to these strategic questions. But do we want to miss the possibility that everyone's eyes have turned to us? A truly successful Presidency cannot afford round views and clichés. I do expect a much clearer vision from the government, much more concrete proposals and, above all, greater ambition. I believe that the people of Estonia are also expecting this. A small country needs to make a number of efforts to make itself actually heard and that something really depends on us. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U98	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U99	Whether we are dealing with the Presidency's passion and commitment, or whether it is simply an annoying side action for ministers during the local election campaign, it seems very far away. Too often, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, we hear the ministers' excuses that, unfortunately, they do not find time to attend one or the other meeting of the Council of the European Union. I will now say something that I would have expected the Prime Minister in office to say, but be helped in a positive spirit of teamwork. Good ministers! You have no more important duty than preparing for the Estonian Presidency. Each meeting of the Council of the European Union must be used to better familiarise itself with the issues on the table and to become more familiar with colleagues around the table. Time and energy must also be devoted to knowing the European Union's policies and driving the process in the right direction. Moreover, I believe that ministers should choose whether to devote themselves to the local election campaign or to the ministry. It would be too much to allow both for the Presidency. Besides the abundance or lack of ambition, clarity and credibility of the message are also important. Let me give you some examples. Yesterday, in the Committee on European Union Affairs, the fact that the Prime Minister's speech on security issues did not dare mention Russia or the dangers that arise there. I am pleased that the observations made by the Committee on European Union Affairs have still reached the final text of the speech. In order for the European Union not only to be the most important peace project of the 20th century, but also of the 21st century, we must consistently put values above short-term benefits. This principle must also be very clearly stated in the programme of the Estonian Presidency, each time without having to be reminded of it. Another example of the blurring message is that, on the one hand, the speech praises e-topics, but on the other hand, the leading politicians of the government union question the essential elements of Estonia's success story, such as e-elections. Which one is it, a success story or a problem? Are we going to die at home, or are we going to recommend to others? One thing is certain: If you try to send different messages to different auditoriums, it will eventually be a fool in front of both. Good Riigikogu! I am absolutely sure that the Estonian Presidency will succeed. The same officials and hundreds, even thousands, of officials who had already served the Estonian state, have just taken up office as guarantor of success. I know many of them personally and I fully trust them to organise the Estonian Presidency. By the way, can anyone recall a Presidency in the history of the European Union that would have been openly declared a failure? The right answer is that there is no such Presidency. The European Union has always moved on and is also moving on when Estonia is holding the helm. Is it enough, however, for us to be satisfied with the Estonian Presidency, or should the bar be set in such a way that the Estonian Presidency must become meaningful on the most important issues? We know the answer deep down. Let's say it out loud! The Riigikogu wishes to see a greater personal contribution from ministers and a real commitment to the success of the Presidency, both in content and form. We want clearer messages and an inspiring vision. Good luck with that! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U100	Monika Haukanõmm on behalf of the Estonian Free Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U101	Mr President! Good Prime Minister! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Estonia, as the Presidency of the European Union, must be the initiator of refreshing reforms. The Estonian Free Party Group considers that the European Union is a necessary form of economic, political and security cooperation and its development helps the Estonian state to remain free. However, the distance from citizens and centralisation are not acceptable. The result of the referendum in the United Kingdom also expresses, among other motives, a protest against the closed political culture of the European Union. Decision-making at EU level directly affects every European, but the role and control of European citizens and national parliaments are unfortunately virtually non-existent. This has also resulted in an exceptionally low turnout in the Euro Parliament elections, which in Estonia was less than 40% in 2014. The European Parliament has short arms, what is happening there is incomprehensible to its citizens, and becoming a euro ambassador is equated to a free holiday. If the European public representation is not strengthened, the situation will deteriorate further. As the future Presidency of the European Union, Estonia must focus on democratisation of the Union and also initiate a serious debate on European political culture. I believe that national parliaments must have wider rights to participate in the European Union's legislative process, and that the European Parliament must be given broader powers of scrutiny and legislative initiative. Unfortunately, it still hasn't sounded too good. The European Union must always be guided by its fundamental values: human rights, democratic freedoms, consideration and involvement of the interests of nation states and regions. In order to restore the trust of both ourselves and of all Europeans, these values must place the European Union at the forefront of internal and foreign policy. Significant changes need to be made in five areas in order to develop and open up the European Union. I call them very briefly. Firstly, the greater role of national parliaments and the European Parliament. Secondly, greater efficiency, instead of seeking an endless consensus, political debates must be held and the best solutions must be reached. Thirdly, there is a functioning agreement culture, all Member States are equal, there is no more equal Member States. Fourthly, more transparency and citizen-centredness. Fifthly, a democratic government, a mandate to the European Commission and a democratic model of initiative. Good Prime Minister! Riigikogu! I come back to the Estonian Presidency. I cannot agree in any way with the Prime Minister's statement that, during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, we only have to rely on being President-in-Office of Europe, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, i.e. that we cannot discuss these issues that are important to Estonia. We must not forget Estonia for a moment and our priorities, that is, our face. This is the only way to stand out from another 28 Member States now, because it is not in our interest to lose a mass, a face. Yes, there must be ambition, because the mere fact that we are already successful because we are able to do our Presidency unexpectedly six months earlier is not a cause for complacency. It is a little unfortunate that Estonia is mainly known in Europe by one question, i.e. the digital field, but it is good that we have one. That's a big plus. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U102	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U103	We are expected to make progress during the Estonian Presidency: the creation of the so-called fifth freedom, i.e. the free movement of data. But beyond digital issues, stronger messages are needed. Only e-enthusiasm is not enough, because Estonia cannot be a single country and must not afford it. It is unfortunate, of course, that the coalition led by the Central Party has gone against the e-elections. The government's plan to destroy our success story and throwing the e-vote success story into the trash will damage Estonia's reputation both in the short term and in the long term. When we talk about our e-edulosics and digital issues, there is no way to get over and around the development and support of innovation and science, without which we will soon have fallen leader from position to position in the ranks of the runners. This is losing our face. After losing the digital face, the government is ready to give up another face by which Estonia is known, valued and set an example for others. This is our balanced state budget, reasonable loan burden and transparency. It is unacceptable for the government to move away from the principle of budgetary balance before the Presidency. The Presidency is also an opportunity for you, Prime Minister, to bring the European Union as close to the people as possible and to make its functioning more sensible. This is the opportunity that the Presidency gives us, among other things, and we must certainly make maximum use of this opportunity as representatives of the people. Good Prime Minister! It is high time to take swift and strong steps to grasp the tail in the blurring of the face of democracy. Unfortunately, Estonia does not do what we have declared a priority for the Estonian Presidency at national level. Prime Minister Ratas can rely on the bold decisions of the long-standing governments, which have now brought significant success. But at the same time, and in its shadow, you have begun to dismantle this success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U104	Jaak Madison on behalf of the Conservative People's Party of Estonia Group, please! Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U105	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good ambassadors! The Estonian Presidency is undoubtedly a great effort for all of us, for the government, for members of the Riigikogu, and also for the entire Estonian people, whose taxes are paid for the expenses of the Presidency. The Estonian Presidency coincides with the momentous times when the European Union is negotiating with Great Britain for its departure. Migration across the Mediterranean is on the rise again, the crisis in the euro area is tightening and Russia is tightening international relations. This makes Estonia even more obliged to be prepared for unpleasant surprises and crises. The Estonian Government has set the priorities for its Presidency. Many of them are problematic for Estonia. Firstly, there is no doubt about migration policy. An independent migration policy is one of the characteristics of a sovereign state. In other words, the state itself decides to open the door to whom and to whom it does not want to open it. Nearly two years of negotiations on the reform of the European Union asylum system and amending the Dublin Regulation are key to maintaining the decision-making powers of the Member States of the European Union. There are countries in the European Union that want to get rid of their responsibility to protect the external borders and to roll their responsibilities on the shoulders of others. However, Estonia must not accept this. Solidarity is a principle that several countries of the European Union understand differently. The substance of this concept has been devaluation over the last few years. Solidarity cannot be boundless, but must be based on reasonable assistance to each other. Solidarity must not harm national interests. Estonia has agreed to follow the example of its predecessors and to be neutral as chairman. The Estonian Conservative People's Party agrees that Estonia must be a good negotiator and find compromises between different parties, but neutrality has limits. The limit comes when decisions are made that have clearly divided Estonian society and go into sharp conflict with our interests. Neutrality is justified, but not to stand up for national interests is simply foolishness. One of the issues where the Conservatives cannot accept tacit neutrality but clearly consider it their duty to defend an independent migration policy is certainly the Dublin Regulation. The second area in which Estonia must be prepared to express its opinion is the negotiations with Great Britain. It is in our interest to maintain good relations with Britain, which is why the obsession of some politicians in the European Union that the British people should be punished for exercising their democratic rights must not be approved by the Estonian state. Great Britain has been our ally both in NATO and a partner in economic relations, and it will remain so. At the end of November, the Committee on European Union Affairs is to organise one of the largest Presidency events, namely the COSAC Conference of Committees on European Union Affairs. Five panel sessions will take place in two days. I am particularly pleased about the first of these, as it reached the programme on the proposal of the speaker here. We will discuss the future of the European Union in the long term. For what kind of Europe do we have a mandate for the people at all, whether the European Union will continue to federalise or return to the basics? The European Commission has published five scenarios in its White Paper. This panel discussion could be one of their places of discussion. It is said that I see a clear contradiction in the continuation of the current course with the mandate of the Estonian people, which dates back to 2003. There is a limit to every mandate that we cannot overcome by asking for a new mandate. Another important discussion at this conference will focus on the role of national parliaments in the European Union. Many political forces see the problem of reducing the role of national parliaments and overly concentrating the decision-making process in the hands of the European Commission and Parliament. There are countries that are comfortable putting responsibility for problems on the shoulders of someone else, the institutions of the European Union, but this also pushes away decision-making powers on other issues. Given the fracture of the foundation of the European Union and the tensions between countries, Estonia must be the locomotive during the Presidency, who will increase the role of national parliaments in the European Union. Estonia can be a milestone in the withdrawal of our right to self-decide. The Presidency is extremely costly financially for the Estonian taxpayer, and it gives us the duty not to forget the representation and protection of our interests in matters of fundamental importance to the nation state. The Conservative People's Party has always stood for the European Union to be a union of states, not a federal state. This principle has been shared in words by most parliamentary parties, and we therefore expect this principle to be defended during the Presidency as well. Long live the Europe of nation states! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U106	On behalf of the Group of the Central Party of Oudekki Loone, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U107	Before going to the Group's speech, I have one comment on the biliary question that my colleague from the Conservative People's Party has put to the Prime Minister. Unfortunately... Oh, my colleague came back to the hall. Don't lie! I have never denied the bombing of Tallinn. On the contrary! Take a look at the verbatim, I've remembered the anniversary of the March bombing in this very hall. Despite this question, I really hope that your group's Euroscepticism is healthy and does not result from the fact that you are simply sorry that Hitler lost the war. This is what the European public would not understand, without speaking about the Estonian public. But we are now going to the European Union, which was created in the name of peace and so that conflicts of the kind of World War II will never happen again. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U108	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U109	Estonia will be President-in-Office. Basically, we're gonna be chairman of the meeting. A lot of people have been asking me why we need all this. We cannot actively stand up for our interests because, as the chairman of the meeting, we must maintain a neutral line and balance our interests. We spend a lot of money so that people who are already rich can come to Estonia on a tourist trip and spend their time on questions that do not concern us, such as African affairs. The questions are reasonable, but it is worth seeing that perhaps there is something in this Presidency that outweighs all this criticism. In fact, we have to maintain a balance, we have to maintain a neutral line, we have a huge opportunity for Estonia. Indeed, we cannot stand too actively for our special interests, but the other presidencies have not been able to do so either. This principle is useful for Estonia. However, the fact that we do not look first and foremost at what is happening in Europe and the world once every six months, but at what is happening in the eyes of an Estonian, is very important to all of us. In order for us to be able to make good decisions and for our own foreign policy to be effective, we must understand the different interests of other countries. There are very many different interests in the European Union. The countries mostly living on small businesses want a cheap currency and a flexible monetary policy. The German type of large industries need expensive currency and prefer the price of the money planned. There are countries in Europe that have economic and political interests to do business with Russia and to get along well, and there are countries that do not think that this is an option at the moment. To balance these different interests, we need to listen to everyone. We need to understand the others. We're a mediator, we're a negotiator, we're not a judge with moral superiority. We just have to select from different interests those that unite us all. That is solidarity. This is the solidarity we expect from Europe: it is understood that others are different, but it helps others to cope well in their different ways. I am sincerely pleased that the Estonian Presidency is headed by a government with a central party Prime Minister. Since its birth, the Centre Party has represented the very understanding that different social groups and nations sometimes have different interests. We are not judging anyone for this, but we are trying to find a way in which we can all have our place in the world. Now we have this role under the Presidency, and that is why I have no doubt that this government is best placed to lead such a Presidency. In the UK, elections will be coming soon. I would like to draw your attention to the Manifesto of Theresa May Conservatives, which criticises another conflict of interest that exists in Europe. Theresa May points out that leaving the European Union will also enable it to redefine relations between workers and employers. He talks about the low-life economy, which we sometimes call the collaborative economy, the bottlenecks and the right of workers to take up to a year off to take care of a family member in need of constant help. He's talking about access to health insurance for pre-arage workers. Indeed, for too long, the European Union has dealt primarily with favouritism of the interests of large corporations. It is these large companies that and their lobbyists can easily access Europe, their interests being clearly stated. At the same time, only countries and governments can stand up for working people. Estonia must remember that these economic interests also urgently need to be balanced in the European Union. Once again, as a small country, we are in a great position to do this, because we stand out every person. Estonia cannot forget any of its people. If we are able to remain fair and honest with everyone, be it Brexit, the migration crisis, workers' rights and security, or Africa's development policy, then we have taken a big step forward both in Europe and Estonia. It is also very important for our own good foreign and internal policies that we be able to analyse the interests of all parties in a calm manner, take them into account and not make moral assessments that this is bad, it is good, we do not talk to it, but we talk to it. After all, politics actually begins where we do not have common foundations where we do not have common values, but we do have a common space where we all have to live together. If we can be honest and fair, we can also show that Estonia is an excellent negotiator. This is how we can assert ourselves in European politics. We can also show in the world that Estonia, a small country that cannot be suspected of wanting to conquer the world, can solve conflicts, does not create them. This means that all of our people will have the opportunity to look more boldly into the future. This means that each of us can contribute to a safer world. We have the opportunity to make Europe a little better, a little fairer, a little more honest. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U110	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U111	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the extremely sympathetic idea of Donald Tusk, quoted in the Prime Minister's speech: Europe as a political community is either united or not at all. Think about it! It is about the fact that, although the European Union is so often characterised primarily as an economic union or a security union, it is, in fact, a political union that, regardless of the differences between the Member States, integrates countries whose backbone forms common values, values such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. Looks elementary, doesn't it? But it really isn't. The world around us shows that nothing can be taken for granted. If we want to live in an environment where human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights are permanent values, then we must work towards this. There is a country too close to Estonia where none of these are considered elementary. There is still a time too close to show that a small country alone may find it difficult, or perhaps even impossible, to preserve the human dignity, free, democratic, equal and human rights rule of law. The European Union is Estonia's best guarantee, the European Union and the unity of the Union, but also, of course, Estonia's own national unity. It is therefore our most important priority to maintain the unity of the European Union, to which we must make an honest contribution every day. We have this opportunity in 46 days. Estonia will take over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in exactly 46 days' time and will hold the Presidency for the next six months. It must be seen as an opportunity. This is the opportunity. An opportunity that only arises once in 14 years. The opportunity to make a wise contribution to European unity, but also to enrich the Union with our own strengths. We have talked about Estonia as a small, but fast and flexible, innovation-oriented country. Agreed. This is Estonia, even if looking from the inside does not always seem like it. We are small, but we are fast, flexible and innovation-oriented. Let us show it to Europe. In the context of the Presidency, it is important to conduct the Presidency in a high-quality manner. Agreed. But it is even more important to actually make our contribution to the development of Europe as President-in-Office, so that Europe is still a pioneer, not a tail jogger. It is our duty, not our right, to present our strengths. I like the motto of our Presidency: unity through balance. And, of course, I like our long and carefully considered priorities: an open and innovative Europe, a secure and protected Europe, a digital Europe and the free movement of data, an inclusive and sustainable Europe. These topics reflect all the current, all the most important at the moment. We can and must talk about all these issues, of course. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U112	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U113	However, here is one topic where Estonia is already a spokesperson, a topic where our experiences come to learn from all over the world. This topic is, of course, a digital issue. Even if we take much of this in Estonia for granted, even if this topic may seem a little lost in Estonia, it is actually our subject, that is our strength. As a country, we have contributed to this since the Tiger Jump project was launched in 1996. We have further developed this project in good times as well as in difficult times. We are ready and mature to share our knowledge, and we have this opportunity within the Presidency. Technology is developing at an enormous rate, with many new opportunities, but also inevitably new threats. We have made use, even more so, of the opportunities provided, from the introduction of digital prescription to e-elections, from e-school to e-Tax Board. And, of course, e-residency. These are not as self-evident opportunities in Europe as in Estonia; some of them are completely unknown. Even more successfully, we have rejected the risks posed by the development of the sector; as an example, it is appropriate to bring about the major cyber attack that took place ten years ago and its successful setback, as well as the centre of excellence of cyber defence. Information technology and its implications are our strength. So let's share that knowledge, share it with passion, share it with dedication. I call on every member of the Riigikogu and every member of the government to be an ambassador to the digital society during the beginning of the Presidency, to highlight the advantages of digital society and the importance of the free movement of data and to highlight at each meeting, at each meeting, at each conference, to share Estonia's knowledge, to share Estonia's experience. That would be our fair bet. I call on you in every conversation, in any suitable quorum, to find supporters in order to confirm the free movement of data as the fifth fundamental freedom. Let it be an Estonian gift for today's Europe. By embracing our image as a leader in the digital society, we will also gather new ideas on how to develop the subject for the success of Europe as a whole, how to take the next step. We proudly take the role of leader and also the burden of leader in developing the Tallinn Declaration and, more importantly, in its later implementation. If every country in the European Union stands for the unity of the Union and shares its best knowledge and greatest strength, we can really say: 'Europe, you are standing on the brink of a hopeful future! ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U114	On behalf of the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Alliance, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U115	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I want to thank the good Prime Minister for his speech, which I think best reflected this success story in Estonia over the last 20 years and perhaps more, with a strong sense of unity in our domestic political activities in order to be a member of the European Union and a successful Member State at one point. As you know very well, the priorities we are discussing here today have actually settled over a very long period of years, and we have all been involved in shaping them together. In 2009, when leading the European Union Affairs Commission, I organised hearings where we analysed how well Estonia has done in the European Union during the first five years. I well remember that the consensual understanding of the political forces in the Estonian Parliament at the time was: if there was a chance to lead the European Union now, to hold the Presidency, then we could do it very well. It has been eight years since then, and there is no doubt that the Estonian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, starting on 1 July, is the success story of Estonia. Last Friday, there was Federica Mogherini, the High Foreign Policy Representative of the European Union, who, among other things, stated at our meeting that it is very good and positive that, at precisely this time, the European Union will be chaired by a country that believes in the European Union as strongly as Estonia does. What is there to deny, when we look at public opinion polls, from the moment the people of Estonia gave a clear yes-word signal in the referendum in 2003 about our need to belong to the European Union, the support has been sustained through all not very simple years, even in the late zeros years of the crisis, we will remember the years of the crisis to a very high day. This is, in fact, our people's assessment of both the work done by previous governments and the real benefits that Estonia has enjoyed in the European Union. I think it is particularly important to emphasise our actions here, too, in preparation for the Presidency, which, ladies and gentlemen, is going very quickly. It only lasts six months. If we think about the functioning of the European Union, that there will be time for Christmas and August, it will turn out to be even shorter. Therefore, I think that focusing on these priorities, which have been agreed at the level of the Riigikogu and the government, is extremely important in a very short period of time. I also want to mention the role of the Riigikogu in two words. As Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have devoted enough of my activities and time to the best success of the parliamentary events that will take place during our Presidency, particularly the European Union's Conference on Foreign and Defence Policy at the beginning of September. I have no doubt today that, along with my good colleague Hannes Hanso, we are putting forward a very meaningful programme for our good colleagues from the parliaments of other countries and the European Parliament, and we are organising a conference in a way that leaves Estonia a good memory of the Presidency. I have no doubt about that. There is no doubt that the other six parliamentary events... More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U116	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U117	...which we will organise, including a conference of spies next year, will succeed. I think that we should think about what are the three most important issues, which are the positive points or the benefits that remain to remember our Presidency. First of all, the biggest winners of the Presidency are ourselves, above all our people, those who have worked for years to ensure that the Estonian Presidency succeeds very well, but also those who have joined this work recently or are only joining it during the Presidency. It's actually a very big experience that we get through it. This is an experience that a country as small as Estonia cannot receive every day in an international context. Once again, seeing these people, their commitment, their motivation, there is no doubt that this Presidency is a success story. Secondly, the Estonian Presidency assures me very convincingly that as a small country in Estonia, it can be a very effective leader in this union of independent states, in the European Union. The ideas and proposals we have made over the years to promote the European Union, so that the European Union remains united and strong, have been tangible. I have no doubt that these priorities, too, from strengthening our sense of security to digoxin, are those that will last even after our Presidency. Thirdly, the previous speakers also drew attention to a very important issue in my opinion, with which Estonia has won a great deal of international recognition. It is, in some ways, a miracle that we have been able to shape ourselves in such a short time, in the last 20 years, in the digital world of a completely indisputable leader state. Last week, too, it was said that once again, I come to what Mogherini said, that there is no doubt if one of the issues of e-state or digital economy arises, then Estonia is undoubtedly a country with a key meaning. I believe that, of course, we should not only look at these approaching six months on this subject, but it is extremely important that the government, both in its internal political decisions and in international cooperation, set the digital science as a long-term strategic objective, because it will not only benefit the people of Estonia but also really benefit the people of Estonia. After all, we have seen for ourselves in recent years how much digital solutions have made our lives easier. Finally, I believe that the issues of the European Union will not be the last debate this year in this Chamber. We will certainly come back to these discussions in the committees, but I believe that also in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U118	The Home and Working Procedures Act gives a member of the Government of the Republic the right to participate in the negotiations. The Prime Minister has decided to exercise this right. George Ratas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U119	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Members of the Riigikogu! I will start with a few comments that I have listened to very thoroughly during the negotiations. I am very sorry that the round of questions went so strongly into internal politics. I think this is not the place where it is right to deal with internal policies, because the European Union is a much wider, more responsible and bigger issue. I do not know whether this is such a great bitterness of the largest group, I do not know whether this is about trying to show Estonia in a bad light by means of lies, as if Estonia were doing badly, but I do not think it is right. I really don't think that's right. Knowing how the Reform Party has stood for Estonia's good reputation, I do not believe that this is their sincere desire. I really hope it's short-term behavior. It's worth getting over that bitterness. The Free Party said here that this is still bad because we are only running a meeting and we have no message or priorities. I spoke here today for a few hours about Estonia's priorities and what Estonia's initiatives are during our Presidency. I'm going to go over it, maybe you just missed it. It is an open and innovative Europe, a secure and protected Europe, a digital Europe and the free movement of data, and an inclusive and sustainable Europe. These are our initiatives, these are the topics that Estonia has put on the table on its own initiative. Of course, we are taking over quite a lot of topics during the Maltese Presidency, we are also taking up these issues, which are currently on the table in Europe at large, and we are putting our own initiative on it. On behalf of the Free Party, Monika Haukanõm said that the Presidency should bring Europe as much closer to the people as possible. I think that's the right idea. This is the right idea at national level, but it is also the right idea for all 27 Member States of the European Union. I think that the Presidency of each country must take place in the light of bringing Europe closer to the people and actually contributing to the fact that the European Union is the source of a lot of positive results. I also fully understand Mr Kruus's questions to both rapporteurs on the common agricultural policy. I think when a person has something on his mind, he asks about it, that's right. But a few thoughts. During our Presidency, these debates are only just beginning. The common agricultural policy is very important in the Committee on Agriculture and Fisheries; it is certainly not going anywhere. Of the 17 top events under our Presidency, agricultural events are on sustainable land use and soils, where we need to find solutions and where our focus is on. There will also be mid-term reviews in the field of the common agricultural policy, which will be discussed during the Estonian Presidency. So this subject is somehow not off the table. Finally, I would like to say that I thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Vitsut personally and the entire Committee on European Union Affairs. I thank all the political groups in the Riigikogu who have come very seriously with this debate. Thank you also to the ambassadors and the entire diplomatic corps. I think today we had the opportunity to send a message to our partners in the European Union via the ambassadors, the diplomatic corps. I would, of course, like to thank all the 1300 people who prepare the Presidency every day, who have worked very, very hard and worked very hard to get the Presidency to begin and succeed. Thank you once again, on behalf of the Government of the Republic, to the entire Riigikogu for today's debate!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-05-16_U120	Honourable Riigikogu! Prime Minister! The debate on the key national issue 'Priorities of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union' is closed. I'll see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 13.26 p.m.
