ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will begin the 10th working week Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu, ladies and gentlemen. Seven members of the Free Party will present an inquiry to the Governor of Eesti Pank, Ardo Hansson, regarding the state budget deficit. In fact, yesterday news came of the Government's intention to amend the basic law of the state budget in this way. As according to Article 4 of the Eesti Pank Act, Eesti Pank must advise the Government of the Republic and the government cannot make important economic policy decisions without asking for advice, we want to know what advice has been asked, what advice has been given and what the views of Eesti Pank are. I believe that these issues are very important and they should be discussed together in this Chamber of the Riigikogu in the near future. We are asking how sustainable a scheme is at all that puts the budget in deficit, perhaps even for the benefit of an incumbent government, making use of the fact that earlier governments have followed a more conservative fiscal policy and leaving the consequences to the next governments. We are also interested in how Estonia must behave in a situation where the European Union's Structural Funds money will decrease in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U3	Jaak Madison, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The faction of the Estonian Conservative People's Party initiates the Act amending § 40 of the Forest Act. This concerns in particular: no cutting is carried out during the breeding period and no movement of the forest is carried out between 15 April and 15 June to protect the fauna. During this period, the State Forest Management Centre has established an annual felling period during which no logging or timber exports are made. It has also been recommended for private forest owners, but not mandatory for everyone. Spring cuttings damage the soil, the undergrowth and the trees that have grown, and then the time of breeding animals is in the forests, and the cutting disturbs all animals. Those who can escape logging will still have nests and sons in the cutting areas. The aim of our initiative is to preserve the environment during the emergence of nature, to ensure protection of birds, fauna and forest soils and to reduce the spread of fungal diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U5	Aivar Sõerd.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U6	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am handing over the draft law amending the Income Tax Act on behalf of the Reform Party Group. Its aim is to restore the joint declarations in full. It is recalled that, at the end of last year, major tax changes were adopted by means of a cluster bill and the possibility to submit joint declarations was also abolished in the main part. In part, the possibility of making certain deductions was retained, i.e. the interest on training costs, which is also limited, and training costs, but the possibility of submitting joint declarations, which were in principle in force so far, was abolished. At a time when the coalition comes up every week with some new tax increase or idea, the step to amend the Income Tax Act would slow down a little bit and reverse the increase in the tax burden. I would also say that losing the possibility of a joint declaration was an extremely wrong step in family policy. I think the coalition also understands this mistake and will support our bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U7	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two drafts and one inquiry, and we will deliver them on the basis of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act. The same law provides that there will now be a verification of presence. 78 members of the Riigikogu participate in the sitting, but no 23 members are present.
ParlaMint-EE_2017-04-06_U8	Today we have one item on the agenda, the third reading of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act, which was initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Do the groups want to start negotiations? I don't see that wish. The Governing Commission's proposal is to put the draft to a final vote of 373. Let's start preparing the vote. I am voting on the draft Act 373 on Supplementation to Nature Conservation Act § 20, initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Please take a stand and vote. 78 delegates voted in favour of the draft law. The law has been passed. Today's work day is over. I wish you a good working day and an extension of the working week. See you Monday! Closure of the sitting at 10.09 a.m.
